ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u1	Borist's letter has been sent by the chairman of the House of Booths, that Hölddur Þórhallsson, why. 3.m. That's the north side. "I can't be a member of Congress anytime soon. So today, the company's 1 strategist to the Superintendent's list in the district, Bogi Hafliðason. Bogi of Hafliðason, a member of the General Assembly, is invited to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u2	According to Article 16, the President has received information from the Congress of the Agency on the change of men in committees. Parliamentary convention: Einarsson is taking his seat as a deputy of the board and check-in board. This change will be considered without vote if no protests are made.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u3	President. On April 23, 2013, the head of the Independence Party says that in the months that followed. On May 27, 2013, the new prime minister announces that the removal will be according to a plan based on his own ideas. On August 15, 2013, the prime minister reports that the removal of the plague can begin in an predictable future. Then, October 15, 2013, the secretary of finance tells us that the past is short. On October 16, the secretary of finance tells us that a major step in 2013 regarding the execution of the plague will be presented in the next five months. On October 30, 2013, the prime minister says that it will take a short time and a long time to eliminate the seas. On January 26, 2014, the prime minister says that the government has only a short time to stop the seas. On February 25, 2014, the secretary of finance tells me that the execution of the pensions is already under way. On June 7, 2014, the secretary of finance says that political courage is needed to eliminate the currency. On September 25, 2014, the secretary of finance says that in 2014 there was a fateful year in the past, and there is nothing to wait for. On November 1, 2014, the secretary of finance says that he has never been so convinced that significant results will be achieved in all the months that have been taken out of the past and on November 11, the same year, the secretary of finance said that he was hoping to reveal a plan for the execution by Christmas. On January 4, 2015, the prime minister says that a big step will be taken in that month. On January 20, the secretary of finance says that the ban is about to begin, and it did not matter which side of the month it will be. It's a short list, just a fraction of the best. For those interested in reading this in detail, the fine Web site bvg.is can be accessed and handled more closely by this inconspicuous confusion of the heads of the administrations for the removal of the penitentiary, the most important language of the day that they have no knowledge or ability to solve. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u4	V.E.G. President. In recent news, it has been observed that at least one of the three business banks has decided to raise the rate of money - assured loans. This happens at the same time as the prognosis and inflation have decreased substantially. This is surprising because many consumers felt that interest would decrease when outside situations were truly positive. This situation, however, does not seem to be as positive or as favorable to all. Now that operating interest has fallen and inflation is at a minimum, business banks are raising their loans. This, of course, raises questions that might be informative. Could it be that the bank's financial loans are large, and the banks see their advantage when inflation is high? Do they perform any action that makes the inflation rise? What is it? Could it be that they are benefiting from high amounts at each point of increase in in inflation? Is there now taking precautions that guarantee them similar profits as when inflation is high? What's going on? It is hard to assume that this is merely a question, but it is safe to say that the image you think of of of these types is not beautiful. It is not enough to increase interest; it is an increase in bank service, as well as a charge for a service that was previously restricted. Based on data from consumer organizations, this deposit system is making its first move on older citizens and those who do not pay bills in home banks as well as others without computers or skills to take advantage of the computer's potential. This behaviour of financial institutions is not at all okay, and I urge all of us who work here to take a closer look at this and gather together to make a better impression on consumers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u5	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by wishing the U.S. Congress to all of you as well as the members of the Generals for a happy year and thank you for your happy cooperation over the past year. Each year brings us new challenges, new opportunities, and on this milestone, you reevaluate the conclusions you have previously drawn and try to sharpen the emphasis you consider to be the best for yourself, for your family and for your workplace, to plan for improvement and to become the best version of yourself. The good society in which we live is very important to us in the bright future, and especially how we can make this good society even better. We want to be active participants in it and contribute to building a living economic system that is living in a healthy competitive environment that encourages investors and pioneers to act, to action, and investments that will provide countless opportunities that will enable all to obtain work that suits them and are willing to work on. We stress that all of this is done in complete harmony with nature and the environment, with sustainable guidance. We want to add weight to the scales so that it is easy for everyone to live and work here, especially during times of population growth and diversity of human life. Building up a society that will be the best version of itself is a great challenge that requires courage and participation in all those in this community, governmental, rural, professional, educational society, and any community and society and, of course, all citizens. In order to get the best results in our efforts to create a community that puts the public's progress and interests in the foregrounds, we need to put aside conflicts that are inevitable for many, and to improve cooperation, cooperation, and not shut down any potential for greater prosperity. V.E.G. President. If we put this guide to the future, I will not be afraid of this future, for in the end, it is our judgment on what a truly successful society is about.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u6	A respectable president. Less than three weeks ago, during the New Year's Eve, the tax system was reimbursed by a great deal of significant changes in the tax system involved in the deduction of the tax and changes in the value tax. These changes are a great source of satisfaction to me, and I view them as the first step in major changes that can be taken in the tax system with the goal of reducing the tax and the simple tax system, especially, making it more open and more beneficial. Then, in particular, I want to mention what is most enjoyable about the changes, that they are based on an increase in the money of the public. However, for the changes that took place at the end of the years, I would like to point out that consumers need to be extremely careful that these changes will turn into prices and prices of products and services. It is good to remember, then, that both consumers and ASI have lent this matter well by being ready to take the answers from consumers in charge of the price changes, both the positive ones, and the worse. I'd especially like to point in that connection to a web called beverdi.is.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u7	A respectable president. According to the news, the Minister of Education has proposed to unite three universitys, the College of Agriculture at the Netherlands, the University of Hólar and the University of Bifrost, in a new financial institution with a local vice president and with a joint administration. With these ideas, two government agencies are being transferred to private business, making it easier to hire and fire employees. There has been no official consultation with school directors or staff on these ideas; there is no evidence for professional benefits or the synergies of these schools, which have indeed been in great financial trouble; but much solidarity has so far ruled with members of the NorthwesternHR and local citizens to protect the high school careers in the district. They were able to strengthen some of the financial standing of those colleges on their latest budgets, but they certainly needed more and more hope that they would continue working on them. Seven applications were received of a driver's position at the National Institute of Agriculture at the Netherlands, but a selection committee has not yet reported the identity of the vacancy. In view of these ideas, you certainly worry. All of this is a big influence on employees who thought they were creating some kind of security. There are 100 people in these three schools. There's going to be a steady future for school, it's urgent, and I'd like to ask you why. paritaprevir Ásmundur Daðason Dadadson whether to support these ideas on personalization or private affairs of this two public university, with due school expenses and uncertainty about the future of the schools. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u8	A respectable president. Thank you. Rafney Magnúsdóttir Humbert's daughter for taking this case up here and agree with it. A senator, for all reasons to be happy that both the economy of Iceland and the University of Hólar were fairly right in the last budget and were increased to these institutions in the form of both the research and the construction of Hólar in Hjaltadal. There's good reason to celebrate, as well as 6. A document allowing the agricultural college to sell property and make the value grow into debt. There is every reason to rejoice also in the definition that it may be allowed to enter into debt. Hv. A senator asks about the partnership of Iceland's Farms University, Biafsk, and University of Hólar, which appeared yesterday in the news. I think it said a minister said it was a case that should be considered and should be started working with it. There were no assertions that these steps would be phased, but I would like to say that there are every reason to say that there are three views that have to be considered and considered. A senator came into the past, the quality of education, that the study is progressive, and the schools have a measure of independence to develop it into the needs of the job. On the other hand, there are financial arguments and, of course, settlements that also influence the civil property, the Tambourine and the Hjalta Valley. With this idea, it's the highest. Minister I think there's every reason to accept it with a positive attitude, to consider whether there is a consistent effect that meets the viewpoints I used here and before. A senator also did. It does not have to be guided by some premalignant attitude, but we need to keep in mind that these views are fulfilled, and that is what a minister announces to follow through. Each of us can agree that it is important to have a powerful school, including a school. in agricultural and food management, because it is an application that is possible to achieve a major increase in Icelandic employment. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u9	A respectable president. Dissociation of wealth is the greatest threat to the well - being and democracy in the world. At the expense of the others, the angry part of the world is getting richer, even here in Iceland. During the past decade, the angryest part of Iceland has been gaining an even greater portion of the cake than it already had. It is now that one percent of the Icelanders own 23% of the property in the country while 75%, or 3/4 parts of the visitors own 27%, or approximately the same share of the cake and the richest one percent. The worst of it is that the modern World Council, the greater part of the Council, has done nothing but add to this misunderstanding. All of his actions have been determined to reduce taxes to the richest 1 percent but to increase the burden of those at the bottom. In this way, he has particularly lighted the wealth tax of the richest 6,000 worlds in the country, the richest three percent that now no longer have to contribute 11 billion a year to the combination. The majority now announces to eliminate the high income tax and thus slant the richest part of Iceland, that has increased the food tax in the lowest paid groups as soon as it has lifted the cash on the flat screen and the massage mats, which, of course, have come to the best possible level. This is a dangerous path that we are on, and we must turn away from it because this shift is a threat to both economic growth and the well - being of the country and democracy in our part of the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u10	A respectable president. I would like to start by thanking Helgi Hjörvar for recording this, but I still correct the senator that the trend he passed did not begin when the government of Sigmundur Davíð began. But all systems tend to sustain themselves. Thus balance is formed, and a system does not have to cope with change. However, the system that we humans created in a few years and that we live in has resulted in a tremendous inequities, discrepancies of wealth, and waste. Last night, the U.S.R.R. reported that the richest 10% of Iceland's population owns 73% of their resources in the country. At the same time, it was found that about 30% of the population does not have debts. Is it possible for such discrimination to continue? It is very important that this should be further investigated and that all of our decisions will lead to greater equality in society. I would like to go so far in this sermon to say that this is one of the reasons for the extensive migration from the region to the capital area in a short time. This is how it is around the earth. It is new that cities grow because of the people's survival efforts rather than because of their prosperity, but each week the population increases by a million people on earth. I say this here: this is not the time for witch hunts or political popularity races. Mainly, there is a need for awareness and a system change. The fact that 50 percent of the poor live on earth among resource populations is not a normal system. The fact that 70% of the population in Nigeria, one of the largest oil exports in Africa, lives under poverty limits, is not a normal system. The fact that Guinea on the western coast of Africa is one of the main exports of bixite used in aluminium production is the ninth poorest land on earth that is not a natural system. Thus, the words of a prime minister on the limits needed to increase the minimum wage gave me a measure of satisfaction, as well as the possibility that in coming agreements, I would be thinking of raising my salary in Kronz rather than in the percentage. That alone would be just a small system change in the right direction against built - in bumps in the system.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u11	V.E.G. President. I'm gonna go like the two of them. Senators who have spoken before me to be in a similar area, i.e. Consider the change in wealth, which is one of the major issues of our day. As we look forward, we will face growing problems rather than the other. The point is that we have a small group of people with vast wealth and the vast numbers of people who live in poverty or even poverty. But as the British relief organization Oxfam noted earlier, the situation will remain unchanged in 2016 that the richest 1% of the world's population will have a bigger share of the world's wealth than the other 99%. The difference between wealth and the poor is not a problem that only belongs to the distant abroad, although the odds between the rich and the poor are, fortunately, not so decisive for us, at least not yet. That's right. That's right. A senator who spoke before me that the discrepancy did not begin with the Sigmundur Davíð government; it started earlier, as it were, in Iceland's last century. Therefore, there is a great reason to worry that this situation, as it were, will not come about by itself but by the decision of politicians, i.e. Ours. Sadly, we have the budget of the last year, where this newfoundism has been restored, where a wealth tax was dropped. [[The president calls.]] Secretary of finance reports that he wants to aim for a further reduction in income taxes. [[The president calls.]] This is a policy of improving the quality of the more prosperous. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u12	Mr. President. I'd like to call attention to something. Councilmen in a very urgent and good newspaper article by Erla Serdar, which appeared on the website today under the title "Having Fear to Be Raised. " It discusses one of Europe's political earthquakes and also in Icelandic context. In part, it says: ▪ Most of them own political groups and other formal or informal groups that now oblige the political scene in Europe in common with bringing about nationalism, immigrants'hatred of the population that has taken over in most European countries. Here are words spoken at the right time. It also discusses why these substances pose a threat to us. Are we threatened by immigrants in Iceland? Are we threatened by diversity and population, or are we threatened by different religions? Or would the others, who harbor fear, prejudice, and ignorance, threaten us and thus create tension in our community? I think that's closer. We are all Icelanders who have chosen to live in this country regardless of whether we have moved here recently, our parents, our grandparents, or our ancestors, 1,000 to 1,100 years ago. There are none of us and the others in this discussion. I think it's time, unfortunately, for one of the recent and tragic suggestions, that the Allied sent a clear message that we are not going to be talking or walking on these grounds. We're not going to do that, at least. not fighting, not the one standing here. It's totally pathetic if you're going to calm down on those tickets and make out on the hostility, prejudice, and fear toward certain groups of our society. We're all one, Icelanders. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u13	A respectable president. I'd like to be like a few before me, discussing only the middle of the right men's discussion of the simple tax system, the financial secretary of state, and before that. paritaprevir Elín Hirst. The income tax system is about to be taken apart and made up of one income tax level. We know that there is nothing but a prescription for discrimination and the rich. The linking is primarily a matter of specific procedures, including business income, capital income, and so forth. The number of income taxes, the number of them today, is used as an equation, but if that is one thing, it means that the less earners have paid even more. We know that in this country the greatest tax burden lies, including those with moderate income. It pays a higher portion of its income for the various goods, including those What we talked about here before the New Year's Eve in connection with the budget, through the food and the like, i.e. using the money in these indirect taxes. Sadly, the changes that have now been made to tax issues have all been in favor of those who earn more money. Now that collective agreements have been negotiated, it is worth a third step, i.e. the power tax level, starts at 836 thousand. It is worth the fact that the government is concerned that this step- apart income tax system is part of a collective agreement, an equation device. On the other hand, we are to aim for a higher business, to reduce overtime, and to reduce excessive employment involvement. As a nation, we have to focus on shortening our work weeks as we level our salary. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u14	A respectable president. I wanted to talk a little bit more about traffic security and traffic. The media have already had some joyful news, but not everything, of what has resulted from serious road accidents. The joys of these reports are the high number of deaths, with the lowest observed and the lowest seen at least ten years here. That's what it's supposed to be, and it's been successful. I'm sure there's a lot of results, and they're working on it in many places. What is not as good about these reports is that the serious injured in traffic accidents reduces the number of people who do not. The number of the dead is reduced, but the number of people who suffer from serious injury is increasing so that the conversation is similar. There's a lot of work to be done. Perhaps the main reason for this is that cars are getting better, so people get out of accidents rather than are seriously injured. There we need to take our role seriously, work to build up transportation, and make the road system safer, thus reducing accidents, increased police surveillance, and so forth. It has been observed that increasing police surveillance can reduce the number of five fatal accidents in traffic by four. It has been successful more than once to have no fatal accident at sea, in the last 20 years three times, and in the flight more often, more than ten times. So this is possible, and we should go to it and take this role here seriously because we can do good.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u15	A respectable president. I'm worried about Vestian Island's transportation. Landing has been shut down since November, and there have been many missions to the village. This has a tremendous impact on Western industry, not to mention the population, that the warlock sails not even day after day. The manufacturing companies that rely on them are going to have their product on the mainland every day. This is serious. It was agreed that a Viking, a small ferry boat, would sail for the landy sea, but he has not gone for a trip to the harbor. The land dwellers are full of sand. The starting plan at the docks expected that about 30 puffs would need to be injected. cubic meters of sand from the dock every year to keep it open. Today, those who know the port count to open it at 60 o'clock. cubic meters, i.e. Two times the amount expected to be injected each year. The reef outside the harbor that has never gone below 5 meters is now 40 meters deep, and in order to deepen the waterfront, the break must begin. It's never had to happen before. In the marina, the depth is 1,9,2.6 meters. Between these, you can almost walk dry feet. It doesn't matter whether we rent ships or build new ships, there's no ship sailing full of sand. Our mission is to get this harbor fixed so that it can be used by Western eyes and those who want to attend, a peace base for the whole year, which is secure and secure. However, to do so, the whole design of the harbor needs to be rechecked and listened to what experience has spoken in that subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u16	President. New information laws went into effect in 2012. The law has the noble goal of ensuring transparency in the administration of governments, including in order to strengthen information rights and expression freedom, increase public capacity for participation in democracies, ensure control of the media and the public with governments, ensures the media' ability to communicate information on public issues and increase public trust in the government. I could use some. Although Iceland is at the top of a recent report on open data, we are no longer counted among the countries most successful. The reason we cut low in this category is that despite our laws, policies, and opportunities, we have not been made desolate enough to accomplish this. Despite some improvements for the better in the new information legislation, they are also failings. 13th. They say that governments should regularly provide the public with information on their activities, such as electronic publications, summary of important projects, etc. In such cases, governments should work hard to make data, data files, and a list of languages available to the public electronically. I'm sorry that the wording of the inscription in a law set at the General Assembly is so weak. What kind of information rights does this create? The regulations also show that a minister should regularly report these laws to the General Assembly, including what has been accomplished regarding increased public access to information. According to the Constitution for the 144th Parliament, Prime Minister was expected to deliver a report at this spring council. However, the revised Constitution states that this will not be the case at the council. It's very unfortunate, and I challenge the president to direct them to the prime minister to get a report on the situation, since it's very comforting that we have crashed about nine places in the nations that we would like to compare ourselves with on freedom of information and expression. The information laws are faulty and I want a report on the first. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u17	A respectable president. There are two things I would like to make up for publicity over a verbal exchange last night at the highest level. The minister of finance, president of the Independence Party, argued that, sadly, no material discussion had been made about the issues and benefits and shortcomings of the European Union. For this reason, I remind you that last year there were two reputable reports for the conference and for the community, one from the World Health Organization and the other from the University of Iceland. Little wonder, then, that people ask themselves, " Which planet is the greatest? ' The minister of finance has already been at the time of this discussion and whether the independent will remember what happened the day after the second report, i.e. A report by the National Institute for Economics (HEC) of the University of Iceland was submitted. Then a proposal was made to end the discussion with the European Union one day after the extensive and thick report was submitted. On the one hand, I would like to talk about what is often supported by the Independence Party for their support of the so - called correction. Yes, that it was chosen in the election, that it had been clearly authorized to act on the correction. But what was chosen when the European Union was elected in the last election? Did the Independence Party then claim to the nation that it is here a proposal to break free from the European Union? On the contrary. The people were instructed to make a national payment and to arrange for a decision regarding the continuation of the case. Of these two examples I have just mentioned, it is best that a stone does not stand above a stone in the case of the Independence Party on these subjects.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u18	A respectable president. This bill has been very difficult for me for reasons that I don't have time to trace here, but most of it is from the government's cost of transport and the question of the legal authority in Article 3. There are three things I want to do. First, the student's study expenses are thought to decrease or at least not increase. It is important that this work. Second: 51 st. law on high school lays down the government's high cost of student research. That law has to be activated, and I challenge it to the bottom. It's a legal committee to do that. Third, discussions mentioned by various members were very helpful and sad that the public did not have access to them. After much meditation and consultation with a number of people over all aspects of this matter, I have concluded that the benefits of this bill outweigh any possible benefits. The production of electronic study tools designed by authors to benefit from the production of calling is very much from their recording of international standards. So I and the rest of Pirata members vote with the bill. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened. [[Take the front, hear.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u19	A respectable president. The United States wants to draw attention to the fact that this is the first time a bill for collection pay from students for study material. The union feels that it is very important to promote the increased use of electronic study aids in teaching but disagrees with the fact that students should pay only for the development and induction of such classes. There are no ideas on the amount or extent of payment, and there was no clearer line on this. The United States believes that a currency license that is being passed is not in harmony with the basic concept of equal education regardless of the economy. Although we certainly make comments to this article, we will sit by the hand of the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u20	A respectable president. I'd like to agree with the people here who have spoken of the factor that is turning to currency primarily in this bill. It is true that there is also many good things in there, including getting students and staff counselors into a school course. It is worth noting that because of the discussion that took place at the Assembly Hall, the funds were placed in what had otherwise not been planned, otherwise they would have added to that fund. In terms of the electronic study data, we're all in favor of an increase in this version, but we can't accept this warrant for reimbursement. Rather, we would like to aim towards an evenly balanced school system and would have considered a table to be served now, in view of the budget, that experimental schools had been transferred to the project where the State had paid for that cost, and before specific articles had been placed there to prepare this experimenting program instead of an opening on the portal and paying students.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u21	Mr. President. With joy, I vote with the bill. I believe that the change we have made, allowing electronic study tools and payments for them, if properly maintained, can cause significant changes to the future, making teaching modern - day, and in harmony with what young people experience, to be online, and to be able to learn. It's a game to learn.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u22	President. I'm very much in favor of developing policy and setting up a field for electronic research. I find it very important, though, to point out that there is no roof, I think it's a little serious, and it's also not clear enough how writers are paid for the work they put in making data. I would have liked to see more clear and sharper articles there. But I think it's progress, and I'm celebrating it and I'll gladly vote with this. This will make the study simpler and likely students will be better in their back if it becomes reality.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u23	A respectable president. A panel of green people believe that the establishment of the Icelandic government's involvement in carbohydrate activity or the Icelandic state oil company is premature. Clearly, some time will pass before the union is formed, and it is a long time before you will find out if you can win oil in the Dragon Zone. Left greens believe that a policy for Iceland would be urgent, based on best available information on climate change and the role of fossil fuels in these changes. At the same time, there is a great need to investigate the impact of oil production on the northern environment, especially in the case of pollution accidents.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u24	President. I want to agree with what. paritaprevir Lilja Electric Rafney because I feel like we're getting a little bit ahead of ourselves, and I don't think this case is really enough to talk about. I agree in itself that we have an official community on this interest, but this case is not discussed. I have not seen much discussion about this in the community, and I feel that we have not discussed it well here at the General, this future policy, the future oil appetite for oil in very dangerous areas, and the consequences it could have if it was found, and accidents were in that area. In fact, I don't feel that there has been enough oil policy, especially when you think about who has been given the authority to drill and to investigate whether oil is out there, because that includes some of the greatest environmental epidemics that can come from the Chinese state a tremendous amount of authority to do this. I want more discussion and new... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u25	President wants less of it. Councilmen who speak may object to others'motives. Councilmen in their talks are doing this by calling them by their full name.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u26	A respectable president. We now vote for a change in traffic laws with changes from a environmental and transport committee that made a great deal of peace with these issues, some of which have caused controversy. It was a pleasure to mention the two cases, the first to be re-educed by a professional driver. We feel that we have made the situation so difficult that it will not weigh too much loneliness and those living in the rural area and ensure that such a study can take place through the computer as it has done so well in public driving courses. The other thing I'd like to mention is that the committee agreed that traffic control as a walking agency is now better off at the police home to make much better use of that active force and to increase law enforcement demonstrations and to make better use of the funds. I'm happy to suggest that all of this be agreed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u27	Mr. President. I've got a new proposal for the bill I'm gonna drag into 3rd. to give the classifications an opportunity to look at this. I know that the Independence Party has a special reason to look at the adjustment proposal. This adjustment is suggested that public releases and productions of the country's tax and pressures be suspended in its present form. Suggestion is provided along with contributions from a synopsis proposal for the publication of iridentical information on national tax pay. The last time independents presented the issue, Persian protection of the bill was compatible with a general view of their privacy, and the Independence Party has provided this same bill three times when the class was in control. The case included the following: The current head of the party, the highest. Bjarni Benediktsson's secretary of finance, but they haven't been able to finish the case yet. Now or we're about 3. is an opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u28	President. I want to draw attention to these changes that are very positive. We were last this morning at a meeting that discussed the affairs of refugees and refugees, and we were among experts who are working on this series of subjects a great deal discussing the need to ensure that those who receive a human rights visa here will enjoy health insurance. I want to celebrate this change and the whole adjustment. You see, there are times when we do good things here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u29	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to the Law on Education and Education, a new Board of Directorates and Service. The Agency is designed for a wide range of roles, but it is primarily in promoting the best possible education and support for higher education and education levels. In recent years the foundation has been laid for the development of Icelandic education systems. In this context there is a recent law on all degrees, education and education and counseling of teachers and school directors, the publishing of new primary courses for play, elementary and high school, and the emphasis that has been placed on implementing measures based on existing policy policies and is intended to further promote the European educational system. To achieve the good intentions of the front saws, it is important that we consider the planning and implementation of the educational system as a whole. So far, there has been no actual government agency serving the educational system. Much of the education and cultural administrations are now being carried out within the walls of the Ministry of Education and Culture, but as the subjects become more complex and responsible for the distribution of more people, coordination is important as well as an overview of information input and assessments. This bill aims to sharpen and strengthen the management of education, quality work, and school service. It is aimed at assigning the Agency to specific projects that are being carried out by the Ministry, as well as to carry out projects that are now being carried out by the Scholarship Agency and the Research Centre. The implementation of those recommended by this bill can be attributed to the evaluation done within the Ministry of Education and Culture of Coordination of putting into place an institution such as the Educational Institute and the work of a postmortem staff. The first analysis of existing institutions and projects by the Ministry of Education and Culture was given by law. As a result, the combined effects of this class of tasks were examined, and the result was that they might have a positive influence, both professional and business, that these tasks should be carried out within one and the same organisation. As a result, it was proposed that the potential for projects for a new agency, viewed comparable organizations in Sweden and Norway, and provided the first ideas for a new institution. The neighboring countries have increasingly emphasized the use of knowledge and research to further their education systems, develop academic and quality assessments, and provide study tools in accordance with modern requirements. It is important that Iceland uses the experience of others and the advantages available here in order to improve public service to students and education. The bill was written at the Ministry of Education and Culture. Early TV stamps were published for presentations and comments on the Ministry 13 October 2014 website, as well as meeting with key stakeholders. The bill's contract focused on keeping staff of the Research Institute and Study Assessment Institute and the Ministry of Education and Culture informed on how things were going. The press held a press conference on bill honors, as it were on autumn days, with staff of both institutions, seeking to answer staff questions where possible. At the same time, a meeting was held with confidential and trade unions. The bill predicts that the Ministry of Education will be appointed director for the same period of five years. He is aimed at setting up a professional programme for the Agency's main tasks, which should be the director for the Agency's advice and the assistance as agreed in published regulations. The role of the National Institute of Education can be considered as a source of counselling, assessment and monitoring, and services and role. The consulting role of the National Institute of Education is twofold. On the one hand, it is recommended that the Agency be a minister to assist in the preparation of laws, regulations and principal educational textbooks. Is it part of promoting the Ministry's policy role? In addition, this aim is to make practical use of the expertise that will exist within the Agency. However, the Agency is aimed at providing information and education to governments, professionals and the public. This may refer, for example, to general educational information and the guidance for school and other persons on school activities on the basis of law, regulations, and main courses. The evaluation and monitoring role of the National Institute of Education includes obtaining, analysing, and publishing educational information. They are given broad sources of education in the bill to provide information from schools, rural communities, and other institutions. It is important that the National Institute of Education emphasizes that the information it has in many parts of the world, using the knowledge and knowledge of its employees in the interests of better schools. Education centres should also monitor and assess the results of school procedures and compare with established criteria. This includes performing a joint study evaluation and exploratory testing set out in law on elementary school and preparation, and performing a legal assessment of schools according to the Ministry Decision. A educational agency is designed to monitor and support the development and progress of its issues. This involves obtaining information on, evaluating and providing the results of projects and actions that focus on innovation and progress and have shown that there is an increased effectiveness in school activities. The role of the National Institute of Education is that the Agency will make sure that students of related education are equipped with fine and varied study tools, as per basic school laws, as well as at other school levels as the Agency may be entrusted with other laws. In addition, the Agency's role is to perform other tasks or be entrusted with law, Regulation or Minister's decision. The education system is constantly changing, so it is desirable that a new institution can take on several educational projects rapidly and effectively without requiring adjustment. Under these circumstances, there may be tasks carried out by the Ministry, or they have been in part out of control and its general surveillance role. A respectable president. The bill also contains the specific requirements for collection and management of information relating to students' school courses on the source of the National Institute of Education for Special Affairs, on the permission of Ministers to provide further details on the implementation of the law and on specific warrants. Materially, the last stipulation contains permission for the Agency to negotiate with non-participants to perform services comparable to those authorized by the National Institute of Education and that the Agency will be granted comparable surveillance clearances against schools and other comparable surveillance agencies under law. It is then recommended that the Agency's authority be submitted to studies and studies for students and published information on their findings by schools, rural areas, national areas and other covariates that may explain the results. Furthermore, it is recommended that the Agency be authorized to establish and publish the rules on the dispensing of study aids as well as on the authority to provide educational data distributed by the Agency for public market sales. Finally, as in the Law on Studying, every elementary school is laid on the right to receive academic data, which depends on the number of students, and is permitted by the Agency to be at the will of a small school. The bill suggests changes in other laws to allow Ministers to assign the National Institute of Education to care for various projects. The objective is to allow the Ministry to provide more space for the management role it is intended to play by law, and to pursue policy in accordance with the educational-specific requirement. These changes are carried out, not on material things. The two provisional regulations of the bill include the rights and duties of law-enforcement employees, which include the provision of the procedure. It should be noted that employees should be offered a new job at the National Institute of Education, and that they do not need to be advertised, such as Article 7. The staff law assumes. A respectable president. I have now explained the subject of the bill. As I did, at the beginning the Agency is designed to play an important role in the support of education and its development in this country, and I hope that solidarity can be achieved there. I suggest that the bill be following this discussion. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u30	A respectable president. I want to thank the minister of this passage. I just want to come in on a few things. First, I'd like to keep it up, because the minister spoke of this being done in great agreement, that it is not to be forgotten that in both institutions, loud voices were heard of dissatisfaction with this union. There are two similar organizations being united, yet different in a certain way. This is a uniting up an institution that makes materials for the school and an institution that appreciates the material that schools operate on. This bill can be read out, and I would like to ask the minister about it, that the Board of Education is in a certain way beginning to adapt to a study evaluation agency and work at a research centre or a new National Institute of Education, i.e. I'm afraid we've had a well-controlled test conducted by a minister who, in my opinion, became too frequent. Then I'd like to ask the minister: Were they ever investigated as to whether this would be any cost to the rurals, because more often than not, the state is one of the most difficult contracts of the rural community, and often follows various prime costs for the unsupervised communities.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u31	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for these questions. It is the unity of two institutions, which, as is always when organizations are united, bring up a discussion. It is only natural when such established institutions are united that there will not be a perfect agreement or agreement at the beginning of the procedure. But I hope that in this chamber, we will be able to make good peace with him about the handling of this matter. I'm completely convinced that we're making this administrative agency a great improvement for the education system. We have the fine experience of doing such in our system of administration, that there is a special administrative facility in the area of the field, but the Ministry is more concerned about policy. I would especially like to mention the changes that are taking place on the terms and arrangements ahead, requiring a much greater degree of recruitment to shape policy over a longer period than ever, which would appear in the future budgets. There's a principle here. In terms of whether a research agency is somehow getting better under a study service, it is not. Of course, among other things, we would like to examine how study tools and study are playing together and using its means of doing so. As for the standardized test, I'd like less. A senator is supposed to be there right now. There are different times or years of schooling in school when tests are properly carried out. It's the tests that have been referred to here. With regard to the cost of rural society, this is a government operation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u32	V.E.G. President. Yeah, well, I've been doing 14 years working as a basic school teacher, so I'm informing the minister of that, now he doesn't need to inform me of their authority or how they're being treated. But I just wanted to, as I told you earlier, to keep it up that it was a dissatisfaction, away from seeing if her goals were good. Besides, I wasn't saying that a research agency should go under a study food clinic. What I meant to say is that the work of the new National Institute of Education is increasingly taking into account a joint reconnaissance test, it can be read only out of the bill, which is a measure of concern to me. Finally: Yes, there is a government agency for study. Nevertheless, often when these types of bills have been identified, although in the case of government agencies, they have been accompanied by an increase in the cost to the rural population. I asked the minister if it had been checked and would have asked if it had been done.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u33	A respectable president. I was well aware of what happened. A senator had this background and experience. I was merely pointing out that in what was discussed, a concerted reconnaissance test, in my speech, was being referred to the tests already being carried out. As for the status of the Scholarship Agency and the increased impact of that ideologies, I feel that it cannot be read from the emphasis that was in my speech or in the billows that there will be some changes. It should be noted, though, that there may be some lack of information in our educational system, about its status, and how it has been developing. For example, I'm not comfortable with it, Mr. Honorable President, that one of the main benefits of public discussion about the status of the Icelandic school system is the PISA. PIIA tests are specifically designed to measure specific aspects of school work. They do not evaluate the school ministry themselves and, in fact, a long distance from it. On the other hand, it has been discussed that these two have been confused and that the PISA tests are some of the scales of the Icelandic school system. They're not, but they measure specific factors. So it is relevant for this important system, which I intend to claim is one of the most important activities in this country when we see our economic and social status, that we have some standards of how we aim ahead and that we use them wisely. Of course, the interaction between study and study tools is normal, and we should increase it so that we can secure, measure the right things, and do the right thing wisely, that the study data supports the work, and vice versa, that the study tools and the readings work together. In terms of the financial cost of the community, it is my opinion that there is no such thing as to call at high costs, since this is a government operation. But it's probably before then. A top-of-the-art Board of Education to investigate it entirely, or call for, if there's anything to do with it. I'm not expecting you to do that, a respectable president, but thank you. A senator for that indication.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u34	President. I was just wondering. We've got two institutions being united, I understand them coming well, a scholarship agency and a study service. I can also quite understand that when such institutions are united, not everyone will agree, it is now, and must deal with them. You just understand that as soon as it's said that there may be a potential for some business economic advantage by uniting, prospectively some professional economy too, and all good things about it. There's one thing I don't quite understand, and I'd like to pray to the highest level. Minister to explain to me a little more, because he says it's a new government agency. This is not just a unit of these two strains. There's something more out there. Maybe that's what I'd like to ask the Minister about, that he would explain to me what's more going on there. As I understand it, there must be some project being given now in the Ministry to this institution. V.E.G. The minister says yes, and this is so that the Ministry can take better care of policy and other policies, and that is also positive. But is there a drop in the ministry? Is it something that this department, office, or what is called from the Ministry and in there? If he could just explain it to me because I don't think it's perfectly clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u35	A respectable president. What is going to happen together with these two institutions to the new agency involved here is not only that the projects are going to go together from the National Institute of Study Assessment and Research, as I traced them, but, rather, the Agency will also have a legal role in administrative matters. I think it's successful that various administrative projects that are now in the Ministry are moving into that institution. A decision has already been made that individual employees who work within the educational and cultural sectors will be transferred to the Agency. At the same time, it was declared that those who are now employed in the study facility and the research agency will be offered a job in the new agency. I think that by sharpening the administrative element in this way, the Ministry has a better chance of doing the enormously important work that will be more and more trying, which is policy, long-term policy, and the emphasis of such activities. For example, it has to do with how the Ministry will be filled in the future, what types of employees, if such expressions can be used, a respectable president, will be hired and assigned. That's exactly what this is, to be not necessarily managing to handle the administration, but more to watch long-term policy dating. I think it matters a lot.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u36	A respectable president. Yeah, so there's a management agency over there and there's some kind of government over it - I'm at the top of it. Minister shakes his head - that's not a control. So the manager will be hired for five years. Then I would like to ask: Can he be hired often? Can he do that again? Has the qualifications of that director been considered? It's not a government, so the Agency is not self-involved, it's under the Ministry. I don't think it's clear enough, maybe I haven't read it quite well enough, but I was trying to, but it'd be nice to get an explanation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u37	A respectable president. I'd like to lighten up with a bang. A senator in this regard, that is the arrangement, that there will be no government. There's evidence because it's just being exonerated or moved administrative projects from the Ministry to this institution, and it's not normal for me to see that there is a government between them. It will be a director who is hired for five years, but because of the nature of the tasks, it is not normal to have a special government between them. As for qualifications or qualifications, I would like to, a respectable president, to point out that in Article 2. is currently, by permission of the President: he should have a university education that will be useful in his work and knowledge of the Agency's working field. This is relatively general, yet a set education program and the nature of it is set up. Then, in terms of the number of years, this legislation does not require that there be a limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u38	A respectable president. I'd like to ask the highest question. Minister and I'll agree with whatHjálmar Bogi - I don't remember at the moment whose son he is...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u39	Hafliðason's son.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u40	... A Hafliðason's son for the emphasis displayed in various uniform tests and such, it may be so much, but that is part of this institution. This is shown in Article 6. that, if I understand the facts correctly, would be the object of a small school with no money at all. how it is transmitted and carried out. What does that involve? Where do we find the boundaries of a small school? I'm concerned that there is something on the mind that the definition of economicism, not necessarily something else, will continue to be varied. Since then, of course, I am concerned that the Agency may obtain special property, require special services, and be subject to sale. What evidence does the Minister foresee that we are selling on market grounds through this institution? So, you might wonder, is this some kind of a cross step? Is having an institution between ministry and school unnecessary? Has there been any concern, since this has been the main step of the elementary school? Is there any connection to high school that is placed on a handle? It's just a few things. I'm worried that there's a control direction, what should we say, that study data will be provided in a certain way. This is illustrated in some articles, of course, by the way we have been buying services on a number of subjects and, among other things, various assessments. [[The president calls.]] I'll get to it in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u41	A respectable president. In terms of the Agency's ability to apply passive measures or rules to the school size, i.e. in small schools, which may include making the Agency available, for example, for example, aquifers, in which smaller schools are clearly faced with a smaller order, lighting up. And there are other procedures that need to be considered in case of a small amount of school. This is what I'm saying now, without knowing exactly what this is all about, but it's important to have a more dignified president of the law and to have clear regulations that such an institution is permitted to do so. How this will appear later appears. But a warrant must be made so that there can be no doubt that the Agency has the authority to do so. In terms of, honorable president, sales, or advising, it should be noted that this law or the possibilities are not different from those having, for example, the Organization. I'd like to refer to law No. 163/2007, of Hague, which says in the chapter Various Secrets, by permission of a president: The Agency is permitted to obtain special resources and to obtain special services for the economy and services of the investigator and other data requests as well as the practical use of its information systems and services in this regard. This is a comparable law. Of course, it does not have any major news, but it may be reasonable that if individual institutions want to call for some additional analysis of data or processing of data or any other person for study or such, such possibilities are open.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u42	A respectable president. Thank you. Minister of staff answers. Of course, it is important that we identify these indiscriminate and lowly schools, who really have the right to enjoy such indiscretions. I think it's very important. I would like my second objection to consider that there is no overall plan for this institution. Substantial expenditures have been expected that divide tens of millions of dollars, which may require changing these costs. Of course, some of it is a single cost. Only 15 million were now given on the budget of the current year. If this is to be true on July 1 - it is also said that a management palace could develop for the first two years or something like that - especially the highest. Ministers who have to apply for additional funding this year?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u43	A respectable president. I hope that it will not, and all this activity will be kept within the limits of the budget, naturally. I want to use this opportunity to say that the purpose of this unity is - although it is an important goal in itself to increase the cost of economic management, which we should, of course, be guided by all our activities - even more important in this case, to look to the service and importance of it, and to increase the quality of our education, the quality of our school activities. This, of course, is the basic thought in these changes, achieves the additive effect on quality, interaction with academic and academic research, the lack of considerable education in the country when we bring up with our neighbors, so we are better equipped to look for long - term educational goals and also better equipped to evaluate and discern the impact on the changes introduced to the school system and to do so that we can conduct all our activities as best possible and so that the study we invite our students to be the best of.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u44	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for his presentation in this matter of Congress, which, following our discussion in the Senate Hall, will proceed. The General and Education Committee for further discussion and review and for the treatment of the matter here. Of course, there are immediate questions about the matter at the minister's presentation that would be helpful to get the minister to answer at the end of the discussion when giving his second talk. I had the opportunity to make them answer the minister's story talk. The first thing I have to do with anything is the work force of the proposed agency. There may be reasons for setting up a special education institution. It must be weighed in the conniving treatment, but her project needs to be quite clearly defined, and therefore, I will be confined to the wording Minister ▪ determination. Is it, then, the minister's idea that he can, after the Council has approved these laws, determine what work he thinks is suitable for, and hide the agency without any help from the Generals? Or is there some minor task, individual cases, or other such things being referred to as a matter's nature, not requiring convocation treatment? I feel that it is necessary for the Minister to explain this thoroughly because it is such a matter for the administration of the state's administration that the task force is determined by the law, and I don't think that in general it would be good luck to manage it if it were a matter of decision for each of the institutions, it would be from one hour to another without any political involvement or discussion. In any case, although specific viewpoints may apply to minor tasks or to minor tasks, the nature of the Agency's work must be very stable. Therefore, I would appreciate that the minister would consider this and see if such provisions are another example. It may well be that the minister may present this here with reference to an example in other laws and practices that have been established but I think that there must be a common understanding, both of the Parliament and of the government, that the decision to assign an institution to a vast or important task in the community service needs to be done by the presence of the council and the professional committee at any time; and it is hardly possible to imagine that such a project might be made suddenly or needed to save before midnight some day, and therefore, it is possible to be done quickly with a simple minister's decision. There must be a change in the institutions of the state that are involved, a presentation, a discussion, a discussion, a entry into the council, and a discussion by the Committee. I'll take care of that, but I'd like to ask the minister to appreciate more fully how that aspect of the matter is thought - provoking. Secondly, I'd like to celebrate the fact that a minister is, rather of counsellers, realistic about the cost of the case. Of course, much has now been discussed, especially by the executives of the government's budget, the chairman, and the vice president of the legal committee, that it is here to unite institutions for the economy and savings of the State. Those who have watched together the institutions in recent years and have considered reports on the topic reports know that the Agency is involved in cost. It simply takes money to strike institutions together. There's an increase of that, at least for the first few years without permanent and permanent costs. This figure assumes that there will be a number of expenses and may need to be overcoming business in the first two years. It is an unusual realistic approach, and it is fine to be clear about it. This is a change that will cost, and it is for professional reasons that the minister is applying for this, because he believes that he is economical in the progress we receive from the cost being set out. I'm waiting for the highest. Ministers to pass through it a little bit better, these are 15 million that have been expected for this year's increased costs, at each cost mainly, and how largely the business is, since there is no plan for a joint agency, which I'm sorry and hope may be improved during this committee's discussion, while the overall population in this year should first not begin until July 1. Third, I wanted the Minister to know what was being discussed in the Ministry, which was mainly considered matters of opinion. Now, as the Minister presented it, the case has been presented by the Ministry's Office, expected to be presented on the Ministry's website, and received comments from various stakeholders, stakeholders and local authorities, to that end. The matter has been discussed with the workers, which is always a key key to success, that it is in good cooperation with the staff. It is always that way when you make a road trip, such as this, there are different views about individual factors. For the sake of work at the council, the minister's viewpoint on what was best divided as to the progress of the matter is a matter of different viewpoints, where the differences are. It would be helpful to get them to swathed at once on the 1st. because thus it was useful for the fine work the Ministry has done with stakeholders and employees and institutions involved in the deporting of the case at the council. I heard some old words going on. Minister on what? paritaprevir Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir of government over the agency. They only caused me to think about it because if the Ministry's purpose is to set up an institution, as we have examples of other administrations and specific projects on the Ministry case, there are cases where such institutions have been established and even that in these governments were designated to represent other members, i.e. Congress groups in some cases as well as various stakeholders, whether in other public groups such as rural society or in groups such as the elderly or the disabled or after a lawsuit. I really think it is worth the discussion, if it is the goal of establishing and noting this institution, as a minister will be best understood, to work in the long term more and more that international policy, whether or not to use the journey, so to speak, and to be formally allowed to eat as most members of the trade group, in order to enter the policies and to establish the building up activities that should be carried out there. I don't feel as likely as the Minister seemed to think there was an unnecessary or unnecessary intervening between the Minister and the Ministry and the Agency on the other hand. On the contrary, I think that such an area could be useful to the Minister in decisions he will then have to consider the larger lines of policy. I think we have similar examples, although only in the educational advice of rural society that are acting with both political representatives and representatives from students, teachers, schoolteachers, and other professionals who could be said to be some sort of intermediate between the educational director and the mayor or the mayor of the local community, but now it has proved to be quite a good arrangement in many places. I think, as popularly put it these days, it can be at least the discussion. At the same time, though, we need to keep in mind that our public systems will not be too long. Perhaps that is what we should ask at the outset when discussing whether it should establish a special educational agency that should also have policy-making, which has been in the hands of the Ministry itself. Are we simply extending the unnecessary channel of communication to our small community? We are only 0.3 million people living in this country. We have given large educational assignments to the rural community. Are we here adding one more organization, so people need to go to their basic schools and then to the Teaching Committee, and when they've already consulted, they go to the town council, and then they go to the mayor's office, and then they go to the town council, and then they go to the Ministry of Education and then they go to the Ministry? At least we need to be very sure what this new institution, or new middleman, will be for the citizen and the final authority of the Minister. Then there are the questions involved, since the study tools must weigh a little bit seriously on this subject. When the minister speaks of, which he certainly had in the petals, that in the future there would enter the type ◯ of employees, i.e. Workers who actually worked on other tasks could not be understood by the minister's words - in the Ministry. [[Up front.]] Then you ask about the content of the case and in the Agency and if the Minister intends to change the study industry itself. Are there changes in what people are working for in the Agency? To be used to create a more private member in some particular projects, e.g. as in the study tools, but do they use the work that has been done to other projects that the minister wants to emphasize in his work?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u45	A respectable president. I want to thank you. Subjects before this discussion, answer and address, and wanted to use the opportunity to respond to some of the comments as well. paritaprevir Hjörvar'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. First, the task and nature of the projects that a minister can launch to this institution. It is true that this is a new story from what had been established in a study center and a research center, where their institutions were deemed completely by law and in order to give them some other assignment that would require adjustment of the law. I'll lead them, Mr. Honorable President, to Article 4. h-arms at this time, by permission of a respectable president: ▪ Other projects that will be entrusted to the Agency by law, Regulation or Minister's decision. I totally agree with what. paritaprevir Of course, the Helgi Hjörvar that it can and obviously not be that it has some kind of open source for anything, which can be determined by 4. that includes the Agency's main project and is established by law. So if there's any idea of adding some of the main tasks, then there must be a need for a change to be made, according to my opinion. However, there are other tasks that would seem quite important to have specific legal adjustments because of them. I'd like to refer to comments on the 4th bill. The c., h- team, where there's something to exactly this case and what the nature of such projects might be. I grab here, by permission of a respectable president, which says: The Council can also take the initiative in calling for information from the Agency in the current case. The Agency can also hide the management of committees, management or management committees with projects related to the Agency's tasks. In other words, the view must exist, and I agree with it, referred to by the senator, that some physical modification of the work of this institution cannot be made without the creation of the lawgiver there. However, in terms of various intervening tasks, which are not specifically mentioned in the law, I believe that there are some conveniences that the Ministry can send them either by Regulation or by direct secretary's decision to this institution. As for the cost arms, I refer to the review of bill to the Management Board of Education for the Ministry of Economics, the office of Public finance, which is in Article II, which says in conclusion, by permission of a respectable president: So if the bill remains unchanged in the law, it is not expected to interfere with the spending of Kingdom funds to a significant extent in the long term. It is true that while the organizations are being united, they may fall at expense. Naturally, he will be remembered as a lesser one, but he is right. A senator noted that the evidence for unity is first and last to improve the quality of education in the country. That's the basic thought. It is fine if it allows us to save some money. Obviously, one new institution may not need, for example, two financial managers or anything like that, but the main thing is that we want to improve the quality, we want to improve the letters, we want to achieve what I've discussed about the administrations, to strengthen it, and at the same time create extra room for the Ministry itself to care for the most important things, which is a long-term policy conference in education. I also reiterate that when talking about saving money, it has been declared to staff that those who work in these two institutions will get a job in the new agency. It's been decided. I'll get to that later, a respectable president. For management plans and overall results on how the Agency will look, the number of employees, etc. In the long run, that work is being done these days. The Agency is in shape. However, we have been careful that all employees can be kept informed, familiar with these matters, that is not surprising. We've been trying to work this thing with the Agency's best agreement, but it's absolutely right. paritaprevir Valgerður Bjarnadóttir pointed out, of course, things like this don't happen so that everyone will be 100% happy with that decision, that's an eye. But I hope there won't be any fighting here. Then I come to them to comment. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar, since he asked me about the issues of opinion that have come up in this work, how they made comments. There are certain factors, the nature of the matter. I'd like to mention some and hope that they will benefit from the work that lies ahead in the council. For example, the matter of 2kres has been discussed. About the organization, whether it should be control or not. There's evidence for both methods. I believe that, and therefore the matter is presented in this way, that it is natural that it is not in control. This is because, among other things, they are giving administrative projects to this institution now in question by the Ministry of Education and Culture. The minister cannot take responsibility for this. This raises the question of a position that controls under such circumstances and what it really will be. On the other hand, it is brought up here, and there is also a discussion about what turns to Article 3. And that's the plan. It is gone to assign managers to set up or set up tasks for the Agency's main projects. There is certainly another way, though, is by law regarding a particular practice that has been established there. It is also possible to approach, and discussion has developed, whether or not it should be passed, so that the minister's presence needs it, i.e. that the advice needs to be agreed by the minister on it and the rules concerning it. However, it is suggested that there are rules and regulations available to guide the Agency so that they can be called up for discussion, in order to provide official data. One of the reasons why I do not suggest to the Council to overstep this is that it may be appropriate to appoint temporary matters to be carried out by the Agency and at the moment that are not set up for long periods of time but that are made up of certain emphasis or projects that are being carried out. These are the two examples of a case of difficulty. A senator called in. I also believe that there is a right and a duty to mention that there is a debate, in accordance with the nature of the case, on temporary requirements for those who are involved in a recruitment relationship with the Board of Education and Culture. It is suggested that these jobs, these offices and jobs, be submitted from June 30, 2015, whereas the letters are to be offered a new job at the National Institute of Education, which may need to be adjusted according to a new ship's log and job description. This has raised a series of discussions, this arrangement, or whether it should be a new organization, and the other institutions would be laid down, and then the work would be advertised. This would not be the priority for the employees who are now employed in these two institutions, but they could apply as well as others. This route is not gone. Rather, it is to ensure that those who are now employed. Third, it could be accessed so that employees or jobs move along as an office transfers to the new agency. That way is not gone. The suggested route, for example, is comparable to that of law No. 50/2014, a law on the administration and administration of the state of the province, which contains preliminary regulations that can be considered or considered, which says, a respected president: A new government office under these laws accepts all the rights, property and duties of the administrative bodies that they replace, but not with law enforcement. After the decision has been made, Sr. provision for temporary I of this law, shall be offered to all the employees of the office who will be submitted to work at either the new county or the police offices. If it is not possible for the current employee to be offered a job in the county's new office or police office, try to offer him a job elsewhere in the county sector of the Ministry responsible for the affairs of the county. Then, a respectable president: However, the employee may need to be changed because of organizational changes or in relation to the establishment of new county and police offices in each district and with regard to new ships. I refer to this aspect of the matter and to the law No. 72/2002, a law on the rights of employees to business ventures, should be kept in mind in Article 1. Their laws state what activity the law cannot control, and that's in the a-party, by permission of Presidents: ▪ Substitution of administrative and administrative procedures or the implementation of tasks between the government. You should keep this in mind. The key point is that in this unity, those who now have a job in these two institutions will be offered a job in the new institution. It's important that employees can walk that way. That's why it's put here as a provisional principle in this way, a respectable president. Then it's about control, because of what it's about. Hjörvar Although I have decided that some time earlier in my speech, I should keep in mind the question of whether to have control and whether to mention it, etc. I believe that I have, in fact, answered in my speech and again that the ideas of academic policy will remain within the Department of Education, and this operation is exactly designed to strengthen this aspect of the matter. You're absolutely right. A senator brings up a number of institutions, and it is rightly noted that there is no problem in this country that there are too few institutions, rather than the rest. This bill, if it becomes legal, makes it two organizations to become one. Here's the question as reason. A senator wondered: extending channels or making the city's citizens more complex for seeking their rights, etc.? I don't think it's true. On the contrary, if you succeed, you can simplify the process, simplify the approach of the public to the solution that people call for, e.g. If they have comments to the administrations, then there is also a possibility of complaint if individuals disagree with the results. First and last, I think it's important to develop expertise in the management sector and on the factors that the Agency would discuss and have in charge, and at the same time build up even more within the Ministry, in the long term, the factors that I've done in the past to talk about and face up for the future policy development in education.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u46	Madam President. Now this bill will go to what? The General and Education Committee for discussion. There they will roll upon all stones. It's like I can see it -- and the highest. A minister went over it earlier - not just two organizations are being united, but much is being taken, apparently, from the Ministry's operations and from a subsystem. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to that. What will be left in the Ministry on Education? What will be left there? It is said in the bill that much expertise is lost from the Ministry. I think it's obvious when you look at the scope, what's supposed to go under this new agency. Now I'm not saying it's not good, but at least it's gonna take a look at what's left in the Ministry. What is left of the responsibility as well? We're talking about the Agency's initiative activities, and I'm asking for the highest degree. Minister to consider more carefully what that means. Is the Ministry being held responsible? What will this amendment be like? It also speaks of an important role, an analysis and publication of information on educational matters, that it should be in cooperation with H firms, rural communities, and other institutions. Is this thought that this institution should gather information, should it also take over the role of the Office of Economics, which has been responsible for gathering information on school matters?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u47	A respectable president. I can assure you what. There will be plenty of work left to be done in the Ministry. As a result, the role of the Ministry and the role of this agency is being sharpened by various issues directly involved in the administration. For this, there are precedents in our government, which I think are in itself excellent. In terms of responsibility, the Ministry cannot be held responsible, as it were, because the Ministry is not responsible. A senator knows perfectly well, that is, the minister who is responsible. For one thing, I think it is wise not to have special control over this institution because of the nature of the projects in it, so it is quite clear that it is the minister responsible, there is no other way to transport it. A person in that position must have that responsibility in the same way that he once did, and it is not possible to shrink back. In terms of their data and their release and cooperation with the Habitat, it may be as though, in terms of the information collection of education systems, it is the work of the Office to hold on to the big picture, the national aspects of the education system, but this institution would further provide more specialized information on the unique aspects of the education system that I believe we need to improve in improving our policies and improving the quality of our education system. In contrast, it is vital that the Organization and this organization work closely together. The bill then contains regulations that clearly explain the right of this institution to call for data, including from schools and school operators. Mistakes have been made; data have sometimes been returned late and badly. This is especially the legal basis for calling for important data. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u48	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for answers and for reminding me where the responsibility lies in all of this. It had not been in doubt to me that it was the highest. Minister who's responsible. However, I, not only as a senator, but as the former head of the Ministry of Education, am trying to understand how this will collapse. This facility has a role to guide, it's also voluntary. She takes much of the Ministry's educational field as it was when I was there, of course, several years ago. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Where is the preparation? Is it known how many employees leave the Ministry to this institution? It is assumed that the law will take effect in the middle of this year. This will take place in the treatment of the council, and the council can, of course, change this if the preparation is not considered to be sufficient. But counts at the highest. Minister to plan that a new agency that has not yet been developed has reached a place where the Agency can start working in just a few months?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u49	A respectable president. This case has been prepared for quite some time, and I believe he was very careful. It has been a good time to do so, and highly qualified employees have been given the opportunity to take them to work. So I'm going to have the plans for when this institution will start working, I believe that everything should be possible and practical. Of course, at some point it will take the Agency to construct the nature of the matter. We hope that things will go any faster, but, of course, I can't say that with some precision. In the case of the Ministry's work, I have previously described the need to make some adjustments. I'd like to use myself to increase the impact of policy and long-term thinkin' about education and the ministry. I know why. A senator is well aware of the changes now being done on the budget and their contributions from the Icelandic government, and that has something to say, i.e. that the requirement will be increased by the Ministry of Education to provide long-term decisions in their fields of motion. When it comes to education, it is important that the long - term vision exists - to work after some kind of long - term design - supported by data and research that we are going to promote through the development of this institution. It is only natural, therefore, that the ministry's activities will change and that they will be asked to do so. I believe that it will be strengthened by this specialized agency, which includes this administrative role, what the two institutions had, but that the Ministry is more focused on what I've traced before, i.e. The policy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u50	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A minister for clear answers to most of the questions I had here. It was like I suspected, the highest. A minister did not assume that it would be a minister's decision to move the main project to a new agency, it must be by law. I think it's important that the committee sharpens their understanding if this word comes true, i.e. what is included in the ministry's authorization to determine some of the Agency's projects and any minor projects involved, since this new statement may become more widespread and apply to other institutions. Therefore, it is important that it is well implemented and does not include an abnormal exponent of power from the legislature to the Commission. I'd rather take in the Minister, as I asked about the content of the operation, about the study aid itself. Does he see changes in that? Is there any part of the work of these institutions that he believes should be a factor in its development? Is there a job inside where he thinks it belongs better to privates than to government agencies and so on? Then I would like to ask about the longer channels, especially in the areas where people operate in the rural areas because of their elementary and nursery schools. How is the way of appeals arranged for this organization? If there are any differences between the local government and its appeals and has appealed to the Ministry and the Minister, would they have to appeal to the Ministry and the Minister, then, after an examination in appeal to the Ministry and Minister, or would they still remember to appeal their matters directly to the Ministry and Minister without the presence of this intermediary?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u51	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the comments and answers. What's the matter with you? I would like to mention that here is not necessarily the situation of accepting an assignment or authority beyond what is required by the law of the Minister and Ministry. Then there is the question of where the minister wants the job done, whether it's done within the Ministry or in this institution. So here we return to our discussion of government, i.e. that, by not being in control, this institution is now being brought closer to the Ministry, as it were, but has been, with the two institutions now being united. When you look at the 4th floor. are listed as primary projects and if you add some of the main tasks that are comparable to what is listed in the numbers a◯g, it is normal to go through the council. In terms of changes in study data and study data, I want to draw some attention. Senator on P.E.G., level four. It says, by permission of the president: ▪[A] sees students in required education for quality and variety of study tools and other students as the Agency may be assigned... In other words, it is not said that the Agency alone will produce such material. It's only the responsibility of the Agency that it ensures that this material is available. As for the appeal routes, at the council, we've been discussing the changes because of the comments made by Generalis's agent on the blurred boundaries between the Ministry of State and the Ministry of Education and Culture, on the other hand, on the charges of citizens, including the U.S. It is taken into account. [[The president calls.]] However, it is clear that if there are disagreements about the administrative decisions taken by this institution, it must be possible to bring it up to a minister for decision.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u52	A respectable president. Rather, I would feel worse if the matter was to extend the appeal process that individuals need to apply to their affairs if they are not given an adequate service. I think it's important that the appeal pathways are as clear as the most clear and that they first come to conclusions. If there's any way to avoid it, I encourage the minister and committee to consider it. For the study aid, I must ask: Does the Minister's advice reduce the production of a united research agency from the past? Does he feel that study tools are better placed in the hands of a private person or the public, so I clearly comment on the question? Finally, with regard to the decomposition of the work. V.E.G. A minister referred to an example involving the county last year. I ask: Is it okay to get along with the unions involved? It is the important thing in the context of the situation, that there is a good cooperation with the staff involved and, of course, the staff itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u53	A respectable president. In terms of charges and other matters, I believe that such things will not complicate matters. On the contrary, I believe that this arrangement will explain and even improve the safety of the city. With regard to the publication of the study aids and the introduction of the government and the subsequent occurrence of other parties, I feel that it is probably a matter of view. I'm standing there in politics, saying that I don't believe that the state is always and always the best one to perform service. However, it does make a difference here that it must be, as laid out in Numbers. .. that the institution in which all of this is cared for should provide careful and varied study tools. And with the expression "grush. " is, of course, suggested that the quality of the study material used in the basic schools be assured. I have expressed it many times, and I believe that it would be easy to consider it as well as other aspects of this work to make sure that our children get the best education and the best service. In terms of provisional regulations, which I reported were among the rules of controversy, I would like to state that there have been some controversy there or some debate over the fundamental method. However, it is supported by the legislation on the legal rights of workers in the switches of enterprises that do not cover changes in government planning and practices or management of government projects. It is vital that we keep that in mind. The main thing is, and it's the most important thing for the workers, to ensure that, with this, all the employees who now have a job in the institutions that are being united, will get jobs. It is not suggested that these jobs be advertised, but it is said that workers may still need to adjust their jobs or levels according to a new organization and job description. So I think it's a big deal to meet the employees in their security.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u54	A respectable president. Here's a bill that's going to be recommended to correct the adjustment of the elementary school law. The bill is made up in the Ministry of Education and Culture in consultation with the European Union. First, the reason and purpose of the bill is to try to clarify better the authority limits of the local administrations and educational issues in terms of lawsuits due to decisions taken in rural core schools and being subject to the rights or responsibilities of individual students. Second, consider the conditions where rural society hides basic schools in private hands. Third, a change in word, so school services rather than expert services are discussed in various laws. Fourth, the bill suggests a change in wording in basic school law on the cooperation of rural society in elementary school to conform with rural government law since 2011. With High School Laws, No. 91/2008, an effort was made to determine more clearly what school authorities' decision would be charged with the Ministry of Education and Culture. It was done in a way that according to law, the decision of the government was sued by the Ministry of Education. On the other hand, other administrative decisions, even if taken on the basis of a law of elementary school, could be revised by the Ministry of Government. Experience shows that success seems to go further and that the treatment of the ruling authority in all respects will be given to the Ministry of Education and Culture. In addition, the government agent's office repeatedly pointed out the need to look for ways to solve the uncertainty that this will bring, thus ensuring the safety of the citizens more fully. The way the bill suggests that all administrative decisions taken on the basis of elementary school law will be charged with the Ministry of Education and Culture. So, I would like to draw attention, a respectable president, in the discussions that took place shortly ago on the bill I recommended earlier regarding the New Education Institute. The bill also suggests that a change in the 43rd paragraph will be made. Basic school, a law on independent elementary school. The requirements are opinion issues that have developed in connection with local authority to make agreements with private partners for operating all of the basic school activities of the local community. In response to their opinions, the objective is to ensure the benefit of the children in question and their right to education and also to provide a clearer framework for such agreements for the benefit of the local community and their partners. Under basic school law, it is the responsibility of the local community to provide children with the right to adequate elementary schools and to see that school activities are carried out. However, basic school laws do not necessarily assume that the rural communities themselves are operating elementary schools; it is well known that in this country, for a long time, they have been working independent elementary schools outside traditional elementary schools. Such schools, however, have generally been employed in larger rural areas in which children and parents have been able to choose between independent and public schools. The bill does not intend to interfere or specifically change or increase the freedom of rural society to negotiate private contracts for basic school management. However, it has to be considered important that national legislation on the activities of an independent or extraordinary elementary school is sufficient and answer in the most advanced way in which children and parents have their rights opinion and the content of study in such schools. In the current law, only an independent working elementary school and their agreement with the relevant community at 43. g. High school. It has been suggested that this law is not so clear as to be desirable about the working environment and the duties of the independent school and the rights of the children attending. It is important to try to correct this, especially if the development becomes more pronounced, that rural society prefers to negotiate with private partners for the entire business or a substantial part of basic school in the Company. The Ministry of Education and Culture believes that if the bill is a law, it will not result in additional expenses for government funds. It is noted that projects are being transferred from the State Department to the Ministry of Education and Culture, which could mean a transfer of funds between recruitment. Then the Ministry has concluded that rural society will not be exposed to increased costs due to the regulations of the bill. The above conclusions have been submitted to the European Union of rural society, which does not comment on the review. A respectable president. This bill contains proposals for the adjustment of legal requirements in terms of the authority limits of the State Ministry and the Ministry of Education and Culture for lawsuits due to the decision taken in rural elementary schools and subject to the rights or duties of individual students. The bill of this is a new note that sets out conditions that must be met if a rural society is going to run one or all basic schools for privates. Finally, wording changes are suggested in line with the 2011 general language and rural government laws. Following the legislation of the bill, it is planned to set up a Regulation on recognition of elementary school expelled from other communities and schools under foreign or international school and the school plan, No. 699/2012, to be reviewed, including with the aim of reducing the burden of order and paying for efficiency, payment, recognition of independent elementary schools. Finally, I'd like to say that the change proposed in the bill is a step toward explaining the working environment of a very high school. On the other hand, the fact that existing law on elementary school is not overlooked is largely tailored to the management of public elementary school. Scholars have noted that in many respects the law is an unsatisfactory frame of an independent elementary school and have suggested that special laws be set on an independent elementary school, as has been done. correspondent in Denmark For this reason, I have decided to start a job in preparing new legislation on an independent elementary school. A respectable president. I expect the case to be followed by this discussion referred to a second issue. ... andwhat. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u55	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for his report on the case and rejoices that he intends to reexamine the law. And perhaps first, it may be reasonable to ask, " Is it not simply right to address the points here that are being put on in total law that attracts private schools or why he chooses to take them through here as a special and independent matter? ' If I have understood the problem correctly, among other things, local communities where only one basic school is, or even if there were more people, if a private partner took over their entire business, and hence the members of the local community no other choice than the school, that it is forbidden to take from that school fee. I don't think there's anything to be done but positive that it's clear that it's forbidden under such circumstances to take school fees. It raises questions about the position of those in such rural society because it is now better known than has to be said that in Iceland we have a tradition that various societies have taken over both nursery and elementary school. In fact, in some of our neighboring countries, who may have been less fortunate with biological organizations than we have caused brutal conflicts, such as business. Then you ask: Are we legally in a position where residents in one community have no choice but to attend private - care school services? Now I don't want to make up a difference between partner life in that subject, of course, there could be life-separated societies which would be just the opposite of a member of the community. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u56	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for these comments and an answer. I'd like to mention that in 2. a-is particular about the aspect of the case that may be involved at the end of the counter-regument in terms of biological institutions and other such organisations that could be involved in schools, i.e. that the Branch Committee has a comparable role in school education in an independent elementary school and is intended according to Article 6. to attend a elementary school that is fired by the local community in such places. It should therefore be possible to ensure that the school program submits to all the same rules, such as in general school, and that the school is taught by the official curriculum with the emphasis shown there. I agree with what. A senator, and it is specifically laid down in the b-party of the cost that, in the case of the country's situation, the school education is being conducted in the manner in Article 2. This cannot be so as to collect some sort of school fees for that operation. Why now? asks why. Senator. Yes, at the Book of Psalms, this case came up in close proximity to the Ministry, i.e. The Ministry of State and the Ministry of Education and Culture, explained the legal status of the school and the right of the local government to make the decision made. The legal assessment of this matter was called. The results of this assessment are actually shown here, so we wanted to bring this matter right now into the council so that it would be in position to ensure that it includes the interests of children in their schools so that it is guaranteed already. Also, if other communities who are in a similar position intend to follow the same procedure, it is arranged to do so on the basis of clear laws. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u57	A respectable president. Now we have in this country, basically an official system of elementary school. On the other hand, we have a fine record of individual private schools that have developed special aspects or have shown a measure of ambition in individual fields and have encouraged the whole basic school system. I think there must be some thought about what the situation would be if a private school was the only option in the community. I'm asking the highest. Minister if he feels it is satisfactory for a school to fall under the rules of a school board in that community if a person in the country might be in the position of having to send his child to a school that is driven by some organization that you disagree entirely on because of your philosophy of life or other factors. Of course, we are not in the position that some of our neighbors have had to have with biological organizations that have been considered questionable in such operations. I simply feel that it must be discussed in a very special way. It is quite another matter here in Reykjavík, where this has been an option for us who have gone to such schools or sent children to such schools to do so, but everyone has had the norm as an option. I think there must be a double energy at least if it is a business manager who can be a spiritist of human philosophy, that they can come to the general elementary school and be the only host of elementary school services in a community. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u58	A respectable president. In this matter, it is important to take into consideration and bear in mind that the terms of the basic school law, which they translated, should be taken into consideration, as it were, where this matter was handled. The conclusion was that under local law it was permitted, the local government was permitted to make the decision she made. What is being done with these laws is setting up a setting for this situation so that the children's interests are insured. This legal bill does not address the question of whether it should be permitted or not. So it's part of another law. This is merely to the law as it is and to have been interpreted, to refer them to the issues between the State Department of State and the Ministry of Education and Culture, however, that gave the conclusion that have come to this point, it is my opinion that the legal process of this operation needs to be reinforced, among other things, because of the attitude as a result. Hjörvar Helgi, that's what we're talking about. So if this situation did arise, it will be certain that parents and children will be educated, as stated by law and by the rules, the status of the school committees, and that they will be guaranteed by a syllabus, etc. So I believe that this is the building point for the success of this position. The other, a respectable president, is that when we compare ourselves with the North countries, of course, it is very effective in our system how few independent elementary schools are there. There's a lot more in the North and there's got to be some thinking about it. We have also seen the trend at the nursery, where independent, active playmates have grown dramatically in recent years, and a large percentage of school - school children are now in independent, active schools, and that arrangement has been very successful, more dignified.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u59	A respectable president. It's like the highest. The minister of education has gone through and presented in the discussion is not about whether we're going to have private elementary school or not but about to cover more of the legal sources. However, there are things I would like to mention and have mentioned at the highest. The Minister of Education and it would be interesting for the General Information and Education Committee to examine them, whether in connection with this bill or with any other legislation involved in this. Like what? paritaprevir Hjövar's Hjörvar pointed out that only one school is offered can be uncomfortable for members of a rural society. It has been mentioned in particular about private schools, but I think there may be a similar situation when we are talking about the public school or school that is being run by the local community. There are several reasons why a parent is not at odds with the education or study policy available there. Then there is an alternative that has not been developed in Iceland, but you have observed interesting developments, such as in the United States and even in continental Europe, increasing parental authority to teach your children. In my opinion, it would have to be framed much better than just giving free permission to do so. I believe that we need to increase our variety, but in my mind, the key is when it comes to private schools that the funds that leave the public in school are used to improve and offer as the best teaching for children. We have examples in which the economics, unfortunately, have taken the lead rather than seeing how to put money to the best of our ability to improve it. There's something I don't think at the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u60	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the speech and comment on this discussion. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister is concerned whether it matters whether we have a private section of the law so that the role of the society is to ensure that the owners make a fortune, or whether they have an automaton so that the profits will lead to students, their equipment, and their school activities will be enjoyed if there is any profit or wealth left in the business. Very much. A minister employs it in the highest degree. Government, because of the highest. Education minister announced earlier that it should have an overall review of the laws of an independent or extremely high school, that it will be addressed to the business plans, and that we have seen the crisis at the high school? In fact, it may as well happen at high school. True, at the elementary school it is said that students do not pay for the obligatory course, so there may be some other situation. However, I would like to ask the highest. A minister into her view of the management plan and whether she will use it in a government that it will be in a certain way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u61	I have a very positive desire to increase the number of running plans in the welfare service, but it's totally on that basis, as I mentioned, that it's not the economics at hand. I've personally pointed out the co-worker form. Hv. A senator spoke of an automaton. We have an example of very well - equipped private societies, and we have seen rulers in this way a great ambition to have a very good school job and to care for their children, who are as good as possible. I have personally been with my daughters in a nursery school that was fired according to Hojalla convention. I have also had my daughters at a elementary school that was run by an automaton and, of course, in elementary schools that were run by a community. I have stressed and had a very good conversation about it with the highest. Secretary of education that increasing variety is important. As the minister mentioned in his case, the options are more varied in other parts of the North. It has been very interesting to see how parents there have agreed to run schools for their children, and among other things, the form of cooperation has been very suitable.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u62	Madam President. I want to thank you very much. Minister for these answers. V.E.G. A minister speaks of benefits, which is the benefit of varied management. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers, whether they consider the benefits to be both professional and financial, as well as top priority. A minister cannot also give examples of well - trained schools in the public system. We have well-endowed elementary schools all over the country where local societies are running and making budgets for and having access to data in order to run their business, and money needs to be estimated and it's going to go through the country fund. On the other hand, if we have a private elementary school, the local community has less access to the books of the school. Tells you the highest. Minister that there could be a problem over there when it comes to the business issues? When it comes to professional views, I don't see as a professional in this field that there is necessarily a professional benefit because there is someone other than the public who runs the Agency. But it's nice to have the highest perspective. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u63	A respectable president. Thank you again for your inquiry. I think it's very interesting as hell. A senator is coming with us. I believe the answer to both questions is yes, but with the premonition that the economic benefits of my mind must never be to the business partner, but to offer your children a better service, that the benefits of the business return, and that they will be even more powerful. I think I mentioned in my previous answer that I have very good experience with schools that are driven by rural society. I also have bad experience with local schools. What I think is important here are additional options for parents. Some years ago, before you really went through education, you had a view that there was only one book to be offered, this would be a study of itself. As you have done more research and development, you can see that study can be an overexcited variety. It was a bit of a sensation when the government was first moving basic schools to the rural communities that the rural communities were not trusted to take over the project. Then they tried to better frame what should be offered for study instead of encouraging it and looking for ways to learn the same thing in a variety of ways. So I can't say that there is no professional benefit in offering a variety of studies.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u64	President. I'm not going to extend this discussion very much, but I must be sure to express my opinion, which has almost come to me in this discussion, that these two bills are the highest. A minister of education has spoken for some reasons that seem less revolutionary. I had actually not thought that at the time, I would become so thinking about them. Three today. We can see in the bill he now speaks for the second time that moving the administration decision, power, from the Ministry into an institution is not a simple, cool case. It is natural to think in terms of exactly what to do, where to appeal, which political decisions should be exactly. This is not the case: We are moving a group of people so that the people remaining in the Ministry can pursue policy. This is a serious matter. It is a serious matter to establish this institution. I think the committee has to do it very well. Then there's the bill, and they say, "Yes, yes, private schools are allowed, nothing is being changed here. " You can run - and I'm not minimizing my work, not at all - the school on the Book Study. It says in the law, and we're only making it clearer. We are simply making it easier to do this in many more places, if you want to. We're talking about basic things in our country, our education, the education of our children, and about the content and how these are run and by whom, and the right that all of us have so that our children can go to good schools. I have to say just as it is, I'm very thinking about why it's urgent to submit this bill about elementary school and why it's not taken into an overall review, to the highest level. The minister says stand at the door. Now I have no prejudice or preconceived opinion about whether school should be private or not. Of course, the public system and public schools are basic to this society. I certainly don't want to change that. I don't want to change it at all, but if there's any way to expand the variety of private schools, we'll take a look at it. However, this is not to be done in such a way that it happens automatically, and it is possible to bring public funds to the work as it pleases. It needs to be carefully monitored. A respectable president. I took a silent message because it's a big deal that we're discussing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u65	A respectable president. I'd like to thank you for the discussions that have been about this and that have come to terms. paritaprevir Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir is to discuss an important matter that I know is why. A top-of-the-art Board of Education will study and study both the issues we discussed in the Institute of Education and the issues we now discuss. I'll make sure of what. A senator says that this matter is not handled lightly. On the contrary, it has had a long turn of action, one of the first cases I set out in my Ministry Day, and it has taken on a large amount of preparatory work for that institution. Then the subject under discussion. There are some things I wanted to come in here for a while. First, so I'll go to the discussion here, about the parents' position to choose schools for their children. It is true that in these rural communities, where only one school is active and no more schools can be attended because of population population, it can in itself be completely unbearable for the population to have no choice other than the school run by society. There may be several reasons for this, e.g. Who are in charge there, individuals, there may be conflicts with those people, etc. There are a number of reasons that can lead to a person's having to put his child in such a community school. In other words, there is no choice. What really matters is the law of 2 Peter 3: 1. g., a, b and c, which I traced to my opening address and the same in the answers. I had previously made the subject a-team 2. ...but I'd also like to call attention to the c- team, by permission of a respectable president: ▪ If the operator is unable to cover his duties according to a service contract or community or department checker's activities, there should be significant problems at school, it should be assumed that a community will be able to take over the activities in order to ensure school integration. When it comes to internalisation, it will be possible to enter a business agreement, such as staff, housing and equipment. It is also important to keep this in mind. I believe this is all the viewpoints involved in securing the rights and rights of the children. That's what this is all about. It is not that this arrangement, i.e., is being taken into account. to take care of the school program, to be entitled or not, or not to be allowed. In this regard, I would like to refer to notes on page 3. There is the background of this case. She is, as I had close to saying, there was a matter of opinion as to whether a rural government was allowed under the circumstances I've previously described, where only one school is active, was allowed to take out such activity. The Education and Culture Department's position was that it wasn't, it wasn't legal, and it's seen in the 100th articles of the government and other laws and I'm referring to comments, I'm not reading them. So it was a matter of opinion whether it was above our heads. The results of the Ministry were to release the investigation, but it was obvious that the Ministry felt that this was not permitted. On the other hand, the Ministry of Internal Affairs issued an opinion and came to an immediate conclusion. The State Department of Internal Affairs felt it was permitted by the government. The State Department's position was that of 5th. law about elementary school did not allow rural society to negotiate with private people that they would take over the basic schools of a community as a whole. Because these differences existed, and because other rural communities had expressed interest in going the same way that had been gone, including In a column inherited, Trausti Fannar Valsson, lecturer at the University of Iceland, took to account for this information. His conclusion was, I read out the comments, with the permission of a respectable president: ... that it would be necessary to agree with 43. gr. A basic school, an independent elementary school and agreement with a member of such schools with rural schools would be a special law against 100r. Civil Government, No. 138/2011. The general rule is to take care of the principle and the activities of an independent elementary school and community information to negotiate with private members of elementary school management, therefore, is to be carried out by the order of 43.g. High school shape In other words. That is the conclusion. What this bill does is to secure the legal status of the children who are being expelled in this way at school. That's what this bill is all about. It is asked, and it has been asked repeatedly: Why now, why not wait until later on? The answer is obvious: Because these activities are already under way and it is likely that more rural communities may be able to launch them. Then I think it is very important that the legal basis be clear, in order to protect the interests of children, and I return to the numbers at 2 Timothy 3: 1. g., a, b and c, where these objects are laid. I want to state this because I think it's important to explain exactly what's going on. I reiterate that this is not allowed to be taken into consideration. That is really the case. This is a groundwork for how this is going to work. V.E.G. A societal minister raised an interesting subject about home school and the possibility of breaking out school duties, perhaps even asking questions about education. It should be taken to see that it is possible even now by law, but with very strict conditions. They're very strict. Of course, we do well to ask ourselves, " Is there a basis for some relief? ' I haven't taken any conclusions on that matter, but I'm sure that's the case, including... In view of the significant increases in the education of the nation in recent years and decades, there are far more parents who are able to do so. However, there are other viewpoints, e.g. the right of children to be in the school community and to enjoy other children at school, which is an extremely important factor in the development of the child, as well as other relevant viewpoints. So it's not a simple matter. For example, on my travels through the country where I was introducing a white book on education reform, I'm not going to say that this is happening everywhere or in a lot of places, but at some point a question arose in this aspect. I think there's a growing attention to this situation in the years to come. In itself, there is not much more I would like to add this time. I know that, and I'm counting on it. The General and Education Committee will deal carefully with these matters, and hopefully we'll finish this bill as a law from the council as soon as possible. I think it's important that this should be the law as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u66	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for his second speech on the subject and the information presented there. I have to say, I think our subject may be more urgent when it comes to school duty, to see if it should be increased, i.e. move her to a lower school, to a high school, and to do a general study for younger children, although the other might be doing some research. I wanted to ask the highest. Minister for something else I could understand from a sermon. Social and housing minister earlier, but it's about the profits of the elementary school business, that he should spend on his own business. I think it must be important to discuss it, and especially when the operator is taking all the schooling in that country society, because now the minister is making a suggestion that the employer does not require an external fee, he must not require school fees at the expense. Then the question must be raised: Should he be allowed to save in business at the community's general elementary school service in order to pay off his own money? Of course, the overall management of basic schools in various rural areas can be saved without literally affecting the syllabus itself. In many cases, this can inevitably lead to worse services or to student equipment. Therefore, the question of the right to pay interest on basic school management is particularly challenging when it comes to patenting basic school activities in the local community. What is the minister's attitude toward this?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u67	A respectable president. This bill does not take a direct view of the terms. A senator mentions. Actually, it is left in the local administration to make a decision about that, i.e. When a contract is made with the person involved, you can apply such factors in a way that the government itself chooses to do. Of course, this involves a lot of responsibility, but I believe that rural governments can be absolutely trustworthy in making such decisions and restoring to the regulations contained in 2 Timothy 3: 1. g. who have fallen to ensure that the work being done at an independent school in the position is the only option, that it is certain that children who are studying there will have no less rights or less service than if they are running a school that is expelled from the local community. (b) What will be considered in the next article? ... to make sure that the regulations of elementary school law are fulfilled to a respectable president of the United States, with your permission. This, of course, lies in the complete policy of a decision that society has to face with all negotiations, and I believe it will answer to that opinion as a matter of course. A senator mentioned.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u68	A respectable president. No, it did not quite answer any questions. A senator had. The question is of the Supreme Court's position. A minister of education in order for private companies to pay for the payment of the payment of the private company for entirely all elementary school services in the local community. If such a service is made available, a person is expected to be invited to the project and is chosen to do so on the basis of some tender invitation. Does the minister believe that it is reasonable to believe that it is possible for a person to make money from that business, saving some business items that may result in the loss of the ministry? Now, this has not been a concern for us so far, running a private school, the few who have been thrown into the capital area, in fact, has not been a lot of money. Still, there is reason to discuss this if all of the basic school services in an entire community are completely covered. I'd like to ask the highest, too. Minister to the advantage of rural society if a member of the management board is involved, because it has landed in nearby lands, that such communities have changed owners, and that the owner's trade is not always interested in the community or the community we have taken. And if it takes the approval of the local government every time such a person changes its owners or how it is handled, what equipment the community has to make a change if the operator has changed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u69	A respectable president. As for the second thing, I still refer to the c-joins 2.g. where the country's option is to take over, so that if there is some kind of precipitating failure in the work of the school company, the community has an uncut right to intervene. For the exchange of owners and such, of course, it is in the palm of the country society to state in agreement that if it is the case, it can have certain consequences or can not happen without society's consent, etc. Each member of the community has a chance to define it in a practical way. As to the first question of interest, I generally feel that there is no better way to make money than I agree with it. A senator that there may be something else in the situation that he or she has to consider carefully, and that is why it is suggested here that the local community has any room in this regard. Of course, they can make it a requirement in their contracts that they do not. Of course, rural society today, with regard to its own activities, may want to weaken and try to avoid school - run activities so that the least of the funds is afforded to do so. That has not been the case. The basic school level is the best fund funded in Iceland and in service contracts can be very clearly identified as to what is expected and how management should be carried out so that the children's rights are ensured. And once again, a respectable president, this bill is going on that given the legal situation that exists today, this is a way of filling and explaining the child's rights. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u70	A respectable president. The subject on the program is a so - called bill for nicknames, which I failed to participate in when it was scheduled for Christmas and New Year's Eve. However, I would like to make up a subject of a few points in the bill that I have two ways through. I'm generally in favor of the primary objective of the bill, but I'm still aware of a few factors that I feel are against the guidance of the states. There is a certain Soviet bleeding over this matter. I have similar opinions about the nominees Committee and the Human Name Committee. I think it's something that can be justified under certain circumstances but that can be done well without. If they do not preserve their own personal name - making tradition, they will have nothing to do with it and no need for it, if that is the result. The same can be said for the eagles. While it is a good thing to contribute to the protection of nominees and named tradition in the country, I feel that this is supposed to happen by itself and that it should be inhabited, or the people of the country who are keeping the name and name of the tradition. The aim of this law is to promote the protection of the nominees and the introductions of the country as part of Icelandic cultural tradition and to ensure that it will be maintained for future generations, that new particles are in accordance with Icelandic grammar and grammar, locality and micronegrom tradition, and to reconcile administration to the registration of desperates to a process that is open, beneficial and efficient. In many ways, modern technology has produced itself and has been linked to economic and land use at any given time. This is true in the Western islands of Skiphel and Fishhels. Then there's also Violet Petrillas, a reference to the local job and activities. It is also the name Duphithem, which comes from the history of Dufūaki, a slave of Hjörleifur, and, of course, the Valley oflf, famous for various reasons. There are also examples of this in some parts of the country, e.g. On Snæfells, where there is a mountain range on either side, that the same natural phenomenon is named for its own nanon, as e.g. The mountain of the eagle called Eagle on the south side of the neon and the Grinch on the north. So each of us has decided that this mountain has a name for itself, and that certainly is a positive and enjoyable name. There are also things that are not in harmony with the Icelandic language or with any language or language that you can explain, at least I'll be right back. For example, the mountain canal of Sveinef, which is often a cause for speculation as to how that name might exist. In addition, biomarkers are constantly developing. So, you see, I'm primarily referring to my experience as a guide, that there'll be particles related to people's movements across the country. Thus, a group of those each year entering the Eagle Valley or up to the Valley of Avengers has the name Line Stone. It's not in any map or anything like that, but those who regularly go there know exactly what name is there, and it's because the hikers often put themselves in line at this point and stick themselves together for safety. Although I can fully agree with the main objective, that this is the culture that we are required to maintain in an orderly manner, I also feel that there are certain winds of liberality and self - induced evolution. I don't feel that in many cases it's a good idea. If I go straight to Section 4. the Commission finds me a number of factors that are not necessary, such as giving a review of the proposed name for a new urban core or a community neighborhood. I think what the D- force says is also unnecessary, to give a review of the country's name. To give a review of the name of a new natural phenomenon within a community is also unnecessary to me. They're creating projects for this committee, which should actually be saved somewhere else or placed in the hands of the rural communities themselves. Here's a suggestion that the committee be allowed to take a case on their own. This is shown in the explanation of Article 4. that it is not always certain that any local government at any given time depends on the rules of action or the microenvironment laws and the committee should have the opportunity to comment on the procedure and request a review of its name in such cases. I have to say, I think it's a bit too much of a compromise around things that could be self-regulated and normal. It is also reported that the cost of the operation of this nominated committee is paid from a government fund, but despite the fact that the number of members on the committee from three to five is not expected to be met by any expense, although it is set up here by the Committee's initiative to adopt all kinds of cases. In fact, it is in the financial review of the case so incomprehensible that I have not yet put my arms around it or have realized its significance. It says here, by permission of the President: Since new members of the committee accept pay in the same way as members of the committees did, a change in arrangements will not lead to an increase in financial cost. I think this must be some sort of speech error, which is shocking because the bill is exactly what it expects here to be a special preservation of a certain area of the language. So says the conclusion of this review: ▪ If the bill is legalized, there seems to be no reason to believe that this will have a significant impact on expenses in this series of projects. There's no perspective in the bill or in the review, so I don't think it's inexplicable. It seems to me quickly, as I have briefly traced, that this could be simplified and shortened, and that there is considerable need. What we should always ask ourselves is, Is this really necessary? It seems to me that there are several aspects of this law that are not. It may also be built into the legislation that is being set up here that the spontaneous initiatives of the settlements will be allowed to enjoy themselves. I look forward to seeing reviews on this subject because it is interesting to know what their reaction will be. I have every right to have any opinion of the matter when it comes to extra payment at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u71	A respectable president. Hv. A senator knows that I am quite ill from the arguments involved in a spontaneous organization. But here are some things people have to keep in mind, and I call for a stand. A member of the council may have to decide primarily on maps, as well as on the subject of natural phenomena, mountains, dollars, and so forth, what is on those maps, what nicknames there, and what natural phenomena, mountains, and so on. Granted, you can visualize a map with a long list of all the names made, but that is quite available. The current arrangement makes this decision by a nomad committee. Thus we are moving to the arrangement that when a new natural phenomenon occurs, it is the people of the local community who decide for the new nickname. This may be a case of conflicting names, but eventually some decision must be made because of the design of maps. I'd love to hear it from what happened. A senator, although we can so deeply agree on the importance of self - control systems, how that would be the case. A senator believes that it would be best for him to make the final decision or how to solve it. I refer them to the current law on how they do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u72	A respectable president. That's a good question for the highest. Minister of Education because I think things like this can only happen by themselves, as they have done through history. The name that is most popular will be listed above. In some cases, this does not happen, and there will be a very high issue on either Mount or Hill, but it tends to solve itself. So when it comes to security, it is absolutely true that having the right nickname in a map can be an advantage. However, it is in our country that many eagles occur in very many places. For example, there are very many Jackfells in the Desert. In the South, there are not only the Tidden Islands but also the nearby Tindas. Fortunately, modern technology has made it possible for our rescue teams and travelers to use simply a GPS device to know exactly which place to go, so that it will solve itself and there is absolutely no need to have a special committee in that which, in addition, has the individual initiative right to meet the whole of the year cycle in these materials, as it seems to me by the bill. I think men ought to beat up some of the defenses and try to keep this as simple as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u73	A respectable president. It is proper to note that mapmaking in Iceland does not have a long history in general. Despite the fact that maps exist of old times, social conditions in this country for so many hundreds of years were far different from what they are now requiring for a number of things; for security in these things. Among other things, it turns to national squares, i.e. how microns are added to a map. It can affect human rights and other factors that have fallen to some certainty about how things are handled. This is in order to increase justice, but also security, and not only the way rescue teams with their GPS respond but also the travellers can understand what the map says, etc. I'd like to remind you, most respected president that a certain arrangement is now in effect. I think it's necessary that we keep in mind the arrangement now for these matters because it's not that it's all self-reliant in a romantic environment where names somehow exist, and it all ends up with some universal agreement, it's not quite so. This bill gives the decision rights, certainly with a review from the Micro-Information Committee, to the local community at the time of the birth of a new natural phenomenon. Then the minister is faced with making a decision when natural phenomena develop out of community boundaries. Let's just think about how it came about, I know it. A senator knows that, i.e. each leading and background of that name was named. I would think it wasn't particularly democratic or self - righteous. There are more recent cases of such a decision than there has actually been no improvement. This is certainly a system, but I believe that it is inevitable in today's society that this is done, and I don't think that there is any extra burden on this subject in any way or that names have a natural approach or evolution. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u74	A respectable president. Of course, you're right. According to a minister, it is necessary to establish some kind of system in which to get these issues going. If I recall correctly, in the bill it is expected that the Committee of the Committee primarily grants reviews, in case of some kind of national dispute, and it is of course best that such disputes are brought to a conclusion in the courts. We already have a means to resolve such matters. I agree that making a process for creating new particles, especially in new natural phenomena, can be positive, as it were, when the eruption of Five Throat created two new mountains - or one new mountain that is younger than all of us who are in here. [[Up front.]] No, no, it's true. There may be a need to create some process to do this, but I still believe that there are some aspects of the bill, such as the obligation to be told or some sort of initiative at the Committee, is unnecessary. I think it's too far out there. I'm waiting for the highest. Minister for pardoning that he had made him a special representative of the government soulless here in the chamber, but I'm just saying just as it is, there are some things in this matter that I feel are written by the system.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u75	A respectable president. Some of the last discussions on the bill were on the program at the council and started doing a little business. Thank you. A candidate for a fine talk and agree with him that there is reason to avoid unnecessary restraint in these matters and reason to limit oneself to what is necessary and important. For example, I think that human government has certainly not led to what it was supposed to be, but it has long since led to a complete contradiction with its original goals, and it is long since time to take away that law. Here, however, I was amazed when the senator called attention to the fact that if I understood it correctly, the committee should have a review of the names of local societies and the names of rural communities, if I understood them correctly, and of some kind of right to insist on reexamination, if correctly noted. Then we will review some debate over the names of rural society, whether the inhabitants of what is now a faraway region should be allowed to choose the name Austria, if I recall that controversy right and debate over many other names for rural society. I must express my opinion that I believe that the people should be allowed to rule it in their own stocks, based on what they're supposed to call but not some committee in the South. I wondered how this is so, so I pray. A senator informs whether the committees are in some way able to demand for any change in names on the streets, disappears, or on the countryside itself, or if there is some penalty in the case of local communities choosing to ignore the Archbishop's words.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u76	A respectable president. I don't want to argue that there is a rule that those with expertise in Icelandic language are such a general fence, but I do know a few examples of how people get involved. Therefore, there is a particular concern that it is necessary for members of the committee to be expert in Icelandic language, and then the commission is entrusted with a measure of authority when it comes to granting envelopes about the proposed name of a new urban or neighbourhood within a community or to give a review of the name of a rural society and to assign them to a rural society. I think these are examples of a role that carries too much control and is absolutely unnecessary for some official committee to take this role. Is it not so that we can trust the group of people who associate with some urban or rural society to decide their name? I feel it's face - to - face, and I don't think there has been any particular public decision in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u77	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator that seems unnecessary, not just unnecessary, but that he could cause unnecessary difficulties in his dealings with his rural society, creating unnecessary arguments. I now have confidence in the truthfulness of the last word, even though these unnecessary, even bad rules, continued to be done, that the ultimatum is still at the local community, waiting. A senator to review whether the authority of the Committee is not only to ask the local community to think or something of the situation, whether they have any authority to cut names on the street, to disappear, or to use rural communities in any form of repair or to take counsel. I trust that the constitution of the Constitution on the autonomy of rural society must include their own determination to determine their names, even though some committee may have the opinion of it if it wants to, but there is no need for them to have a legal opinion on it at any time. I think that's an unnecessary effort on the scale of no more complex than it is here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u78	A respectable president. Seven. This song bill says: If a new natural phenomenon is in need of a name, the local government should take the initiative to have the name given to the Commission's commission. Outside of local administrative boundaries, a minister's name is taken. A new proposal is to be sent to the secretary for confirmation. It appears that the initiative is to be taken to the office of a new company name but to be given the commission of the nominees. It was somehow this way -- I don't feel what this turned in comments about the bill, but somehow it could be understood, yes, that a nominee committee is expected to give logical opinions to the local government or local government within three weeks of the Commission's hearing. Then the committee shall send copies of their opinion to the minister of the county government. I think these regulations have to be carefully considered in the bill before it is resolved, and I trust that they will be carried out - to what committee will address the General Committee? Yeah. I trust the committee will be very careful about that. I feel that, as mentioned in my case, there are some merits in the bill which is full of reasons why we here at the council are very careful. I'm not gonna turn it down like this without a rumor about it. However, there are a number of questions, as we have seen here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u79	It should be made clear that the proposal is that the case will go to the General and Education Committee after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u80	A respectable president. I'd like to thank you for the discussions that have been here on this subject, which is very important because the arrangement we have for these things has to be long-term and has a high cultural value, along with the factors that have been mentioned here on the security and security of tourists and so on. I've felt that there was something to it. Congress officials speak a little as if there are no laws on this committee in force now or any arrangement. I'm going to allow myself, a respectable president, to intervene only in current legislation and point to a few points. Two. Song of town names, no. 35/1953 is discussed with a nomad committee as it is today defined by the law. It says here, by permission of a respectable president: We'll discuss the names of a farm at the time. Counts five, seven, and 8. The law. At the same time, the Commission's decision on what topics will be set up on a map published by Iceland's National Research Committee, or by the permission of that institution, is a disagreement or a matter of opinion on this subject. Then the commission will clear up a new street name and similar local name. Legally, Iceland's National Studies, other cartographers, the Founding of the Year Magnússson in Icelandic studies, landowners, rural administrations, and local government agencies, but otherwise government laws are under way. The Commission is required to seek expert opinion before making decisions. The decision of the Committee can be made to minister... And then goes on, Mr. Honorable President: The Commission shall state the activities of the nominees in more detail. Let's go there, too. the preparatory procedure of the Commission's decision to form a letter on the names, including the introduction of foreign matter, to the public with reasonable notice, so that any who feel that they have information or indications that are being held, may have the opportunity to present their opinion to the committee. This is the case in the bill discussed here. The Bible does not teach us to be "no part of the world. " In addition to the permission of a nominee committee, we can change the number of farms and shops or villages registered in Iceland's National Registry. Now they see that Soviet arrangement. And on the 4th. says: The nominee shall be published on the name of the new farms outside the market, the purchases, and the villages. - This is a matter of special importance. In the 5th. is said, by permission of a respectable president: If the owner wants to change the name of his farm, then the name will be changed. Section 3. he shall send it to the nominee. In the request, he should explain the reasons for requesting that the previous name of the farm be submitted and the reasons for the selection of a new name. Changes in the name of the farm should not be allowed, unless quite specifically available, such as that the farm is compatible with another farm in the same region or similar. Seven. is as follows: It is now the formation of urban or village - in one of the lands of the earth or the ground, and it is true, that the country government applies to it to a nominee to get its name legalized, as well as to suggest its name and describe localities, as it is necessary... The reason I read this, a respectable president, is that I want to emphasize that there is a specific arrangement for these matters. I therefore do not agree entirely with the explanation or approach that this is up to the administrative point in creating some penalcil devices, which then kill down the whole initiative and ideas and self - rated evolution. I think it's a pretty long road away. Here, of course, is the thought that is behind the law, which is also shown in law No. 35/1953, the decision must always be made because it needs to be transferred to a map. Then, in my opinion, a respectable president, to refer to a millennium of tradition or evolution in this country, because the factor involved in cartographing and using maps is to make a fairly new phenomenon, at least in our community. It may not have mattered so much here in the past, although this trend took a considerable time because these issues were not lived, i.e. how to add the names to a map. For example, I refer to natural phenomena like the Surts Islands and how it came to be called and on the mountains as well as on them. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall mentioned. How did that title come to be in my opinion? It was not, in fact, based on law or by law. If I don't have any memory problems, they set up a committee that suggested those names. As far as I'm concerned, that committee didn't get any better. On the other hand, I've heard from e.g. The media are concerned that there will be too long since natural phenomena, which will be discussed in the news, e.g. now about the so - called Holun without a decision on what it is called. Then, somehow, the reporters through their discussion make their decision about the name because of the position they are making about their names. So this bill, even though it may not be too lenient, is important. I think it is my idea to resolve certain issues of opinion that exist and to be relatively simple from the arrangement that was used, that is clearer, and to make the decision to the people who live in the region of a new nickname or need a new name, some new natural phenomenon. They are the people who make the decision, though they were given the authority. It is not a nominee, as in the present system, that makes such a decision; nor is it done in a way that I believe that it did not completely improve, although I do not in itself comment on how it was done, i.e. I don't think anyone got hurt. However, it is necessary to have a good system. The desire to have a system when it comes to public intervention is not a sign of controlism but, in fact, a limitation of government because not having the system in this way, but leaving it open is just more likely that ministers will exercise authority beyond what the World Council has granted them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u81	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for excellent insight into existing legal frames in these areas. I don't think the system as it is today is perfect, I'm not defending it. I just wanted to point out a few things that I think can be simple in the matter and as short as possible. I specifically mention the initiative rights of the Committee. Why do you think it's the highest. Ministers that it is necessary if the function has been defined accurately and there is a specific committee that has the responsibility to determine certain points referred to, issues, etc.? Why does she need this special initiative? Then I wondered, too, about the saving of this task, which in many respects is the interests of my community. Is it not possible, for example, that this work would be carried out by the European Union as part of a community? The local community's interest is that such things are clear. These are questions I want to ask the highest. Minister to take action in his answer to my answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u82	A respectable president. As a result of a discussion of misunderstandings and other such factors, I would like to argue that the bill that has now been presented clearly and is consistent with the process in force. Of course, any suggestion to find other ways that may lead to clarifying this and simplifying the situation is well - documented. I trust each other. A committee, a General and Education Committee, to take a stand on this, but it shows that there is an important reason for many of the factors presented here. We've a long history of having to sort out some information that might come up because of what's happening. It is necessary, then, to refrain from sacrificing such for some overcrowding, which in turn leads to the true growth of complexity. More important, there are clear rules that make the simple treatment and make it easier, rather, and not easier. As for the initiative course, I'd like to point out comments about 4. g. I, a respectable president, allow me to quote the Senate document, with your permission: In this regard the commission suggested that a sort of security valve be placed in the process, allowing the committee to take a case on the scene, even though the deadline for a response was over, for example, if the committee considered a problem on a name or if someone else made a comment on a name. It was also noted in the panel's comments that local governments, at any given time, are not always certain to follow procedures or microblation laws. There are such factors. In contrast, the main work of the Committee is listed so that there can be nothing but a point like this, which is about to take the initiative.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u83	A respectable president. It's only the privilege of taking the initiative. For example, if an eagle contradicts the Icelandic committee's concept of recording, it may, of course, be completely self - righteous and natural that the nicknames are not relevant to the Icelandic language. That can be fine. For example, there are houses in the Western Islands that carry foreign names; they are a species of particles. London is for forming a famous house there. I'd like to ask the highest, too. Minister to one sentence in the financial review, how he understands it, or whether he understands it. It states: New members of the committee accept wages in the same way as members of the committees, so a change in arrangements will not lead to an increase in financial cost. Now the number of committees from three to five is increasing, so I realize that these are not huge amounts, but still you insist that this is clear and you know exactly what the cost is. How does it make sense? Minister of this?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u84	A respectable president. It would probably be wise to set up some kind of committee in order to translate text from the Ministry of finance. I think there might be a great improvement for all of us. But I understand it this way, and it shall be all foreordained by the understanding that this is actually the interpretation of the commission, i.e. if the overall cost of being the same, but the number of members is increasing, that is the case. However, the committee may want to change it, not to reduce the commission. These are not such sums of money that although the former members of the committee have the same salary, they cause gross economic damage. I'm not gonna take a big stand on that, that's not the big deal. Once again about the initiative course and the tradition of name, of course. A senator mentioned, for example. ... themillof London. In the United States, what is more, and how is it related to the way we treat others? You can bend that word and add it, etc., so - Londons, the senator doesn't have to ask. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] The name must have been turned that way in the Western Islands.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u85	A respectable president. I must begin by celebrating the Minister of Education's declaration that he sets up a committee to translate the text coming from the Ministry of finance, in chapters at least I'm pretty surprised at the highest point. A minister for the present arrangement that this is a special justification for the continuation of governance. I don't think there's any paper to look around, topmost. Minister, we've gone very far in this regard. I think it might be best if we Icelanders, a nation of 0.3 million, chose to have a very special government agency for nicknames. It was particularly broken out of the National Museum if I recall correctly and made as an independent government agency in order to keep track of this important aspect. Of course, in some respects this is rooted in our independence struggles and the emphasis that was on a country name and name - name tradition and extensive formality around those things. In the 21st century, though, I think that these views may not be as much in the dough as they were then, and they may have been urgent in their time. I must ask the minister if he does not feel that it is his or her own business to decide what streets and neighborhoods in that rural society's names, what country society itself is, and they should be in their own jurisdiction if they choose to seek advice on these matters and what counsellors they are, and, more importantly, if there is any justification for this order of affairs that it is worse still in current legislation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u86	A respectable president. As for the past situation, I thought it best to review the position that exists today, the arrangement that applies to the nomad Committee and its projects because I felt that there was something like this to be said and that we were leaving an arrangement that had been meant to be here for centuries, it would all be some spontaneous arrangement where the merits of the names could be enjoyed by their competition and above would be a name for the best part. That arrangement really does not exist today. We've been living in an arrangement that, as far as I'm concerned, is probably unduly complicated. The arrangement set out here is for simplicity. If it is possible to conclude that this is even more possible to simplify it, of course, I will not resist it. Yet, the eagles contain a vast variety of cultures. The history of this nation is a matter of eagles. They are important to us, and their preservation and extramarital activities are important. When it comes to changing localities or such, it is not surprising that it cannot be done just as well and without the fact and my opinion that the nomad is involved. This does not mean that it cannot be done and that the law allows humans to, for example, to be able to do so. Change town names, names on the streets and stuff like that. But because this is cultural value, I think that a certain conservativeness is reasonable. I'm one of those guys who's pretty conservative in these matters. [[The president calls.]] In fact, it can be together, a dignified president, and often it is, of particular conservativeness and liberalness. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Actually, I think it's best.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u87	A respectable president. I'm glad the Minister believes that if there's any way to simplify the legislation in the case of the council, it would be preferable. I encourage the committee to examine these possibilities carefully and carefully. You're absolutely right by the Topv. Ministers that the eagles are an important part of our culture, and there is certainly reason to care for it, but it must also be remembered that this cultural decay came into existence with the people themselves, the people at the scene, at home in the provinces, and not by a committee to the south. You can never say that, or I don't believe it to the highest. Ministers equal the nanons in Iceland's nature and then what names are chosen to select newcommunicators in some rural group or united rural community or street in some town. There can be no cultural value or part of our history in that a committee in the southern part of the world needs to be said at a time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u88	A respectable president. It is proper to say that this is the case, but it is important what things are called. For example, would we not see the decision to make in Reykjavík, whether we live in Reykjavík or not, to make a decision to change a vow that is part of our national history in the East or to any other matter that matters to us? It would have to be reasoned completely, and I wouldn't want to have it that way, just because some strange more part of the city could thus be crossed over by a single pen mark. So I don't think there are any complications or problems in this regard. I reiterate that the process that has been installed in the bill is for simplicity. It's probably better to take a closer look, but it must also be sure that whatever goals are set by the bill will not be lost and it will be possible to reach them. [[The president calls.]] The simplistics must not result in a new ambiguous phase. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u89	President. Yeah, I'm just going to make a quick comment because I participated in this conversation here before Christmas, and I'm still thinking that I feel like the bill - I'm going to use the same word as that. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall used it, it's like this government stuff. And it doesn't change anything to me if the law comes from -- I think the highest. A minister said that they were from 1953, an old law - like it. Then I think it should be us, if we're reevaluating such laws and thinking that they're too complicated, making them very simpler, and trying to keep it, even if thekrauts say: "It's never been like that, it's self-proper for the people and that. Well, it's a national sense, though, and we enjoy the gradual formation of an eagle. Then, in cities too, city names have been changed. We on Skulag Street are completely confused because half of it is now known as Guðnarunun or something like that. Was that supposed to happen to a nominee committee? I mean, you can do all these things, but just don't make things too complicated. That's what I wanted to make a comment to first the minister is of the opinion that if something is somehow something, it should be that way. I don't agree with that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u90	A respectable president. I'm going to make the change that took place on street vows as well. A senator pointed out that in this way everything was done according to the law. The bill presented here does not in itself make any new statements in this regard. I believe there is reason to have a legal arrangement for these matters. I think it's obvious that you need to, and you can't avoid it, decisions about nicknames and names. Why is this necessary? For one thing, it may be a matter of controversies, and obviously it is relevant to mapmaking. There is a law on how it should be handled. And it hasn't caused any problems so far. What is new here and I believe is that when it comes to calling new natural phenomena, it is the people who live near the desperates of the decision, people at home in the province, certainly with the guidance and survival of the Committee of Environment. But I believe this progress from the past, such as the arrangement that we have recently seen, old examples as well as new, where a minister appoints a committee to give a name for a new natural phenomenon. Then it is not the people in the district that does it. It is such a committee. I've pointed out before that I don't think that there was any law to support that process. This is not an example of government control or organization. Rather, it is trying to ensure that we protect our microbubbles, that changes are deliberately made, and then reasoned, and then how to keep it out in the case of new particles.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u91	A respectable president. Legalism has become such - what, must a minister never give a commission unless there is a law on that committee? A minister can naturally appoint a committee, he can appoint a group, and he can ask people to be a minister to him for some things without necessarily being legal. Well, the Minister will correct me if I'm not. I just don't believe that a minister can't bring people in, is going to get five people to talk to him about this and that, but he can't, because he doesn't have the law to do that. It must be, I don't believe the legalist is such a respectable president that ministers don't have the authority to do that. But I'll get them right.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-21-54.u92	A respectable president. The point here is not that a minister cannot set up committees at all. In fact, it can be wondered if there is no reason to place any restrictions on the law, the attack by the superintendent. What I'm talking about here is that there's a certain legal process on how to give a name. It has been so that a name may be formed, and it may differ in the way it is called. Then, according to current law, this committee is to decide and make a decision. There is a somewhat different process than when a minister appoints a special committee to name certain natural phenomena. There's only another approach, that's what I mean. I'm not worrying that there was a magnificent violation of the law or some problem here. I'm just saying, when procedures are not clear, there's a much greater chance that ministers will resort to them. According to the bill, this is how it will be in the case of a new natural phenomenon. I think it's a much better arrangement than the other.
