ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-23-38.u1	There have been two letters from the State Department asking for every request to give written answers to the application. 264, for the immobilization of the aircraft, from Hrafn Djörn Gunnarsson, and for the icicle. 270, about an electrically drive, General, from Oddný G. Harðardóttir. There's been a letter received from the Department of Professional Road and Development that asks for every request to give a written answer to a petition for this request. 352, for the development of tourism Control, from Oddný G. Harðardóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-23-38.u2	To answer, Prime Minister, Minister of Health, Marine and Agriculture Ministers and Environmental and Resource Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-23-38.u3	Mr. President. I'd like to speak to the highest. A health minister to learn of news that has been received because of the availability of partial or total medical care in the capital area. At the top. Prior to this, the health - care minister has had excellent discussions about possible private business on health care. I speak for a greater part of the country, for according to surveys, the vast majority of the country's health - care network, whether hospital or health care, are being run socially as a social health system, i.e. that the official source of these units to ensure that the highest bioavailability of all citizens of the country is to health care but also because of the fact that health systems that are run by this social mechanism are best at cost and in terms of public health, as they guarantee an equal bioavailability regardless of class and other factors. V.E.G. A minister has observed that it is not all about who is running unity but, rather, that the public pay is the most important thing. This is not so, however, when we consider the health - care results as a whole. Then who runs and how it matters is. We know that a new declaration was signed following medical contracts that specifically referred to different work formats. As I said here at the outset, there have been reports of working on offering out health care. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Is that correct? Is there a basis for a partial or complete supply of health care in the capital area? So, at the highest. A minister can inform us here at the council if it exists.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-23-38.u4	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. It is true that the news has been quite recent, but it is even longer since it took off. In 2013, I introduced a program of better health care for 2013 in the year2017, which included discussing how we were going to improve the health care of the country, especially in the capital area. Granted, this plan has gone more slowly than it was in existence, and man's will was expressed. Nevertheless, it was assumed that the management arrangements for health care would be changed, along with our reevaluation and presentation, in the form of writing the requirements for health care in the country. So, in answer to that, the health care in the capital area is running 15 clinics today. It's got two in private business and it's been for some time, the Low House and the Salatown Station. We're both doing very well, especially Sala Station in Kópavogi. That doesn't mean we're running the 15 stations, so they say. However, it is to try to create an environment in which to increase the number of health centers in the capital area, and it is likely to be published by the operators at the stations we could envision. However, the task has not yet been accomplished, for the requirement is not yet completed and we have not reached the completion of creating the funding model for the health - care system. I guess I'll do a little bit of that in my second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-23-38.u5	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I have studied the fines that hear under the direction of better health care. It is primarily a matter of financing and cost, not a direct expression of an invitation. As I understood. A minister earlier - I would like to ask him to explain it to me - then I felt that he was not available to run out the clinics that have already been run by the health care of the capital area, i.e. The 13 people who aren't in private business. Then I should understand a word of the highest degree. A minister who allows the establishment of a new clinic and her business to be released? I think it's very important that we at the council be informed about these plans. It's a highly political subject, a system we want. It recommends much of the social health system, and it considers a vast majority of the country's population as well. I want to pray to the highest. Minister to further explain to me whether this is the correct understanding of his answer here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-23-38.u6	A respectable president. You're right, there's a lot of things going on here. Among other things, it says that there will be two potential business opportunities, private health centres, and treaties with the State and the State as well. It was discussed at the outset and discussed in this way. You're right next door. A senator told me that I am not expected to continue to be the health care providers in the capital health care area. We are considering the possibility of increasing the number of health professionals in business in the capital area. This work is designed to reevaluate funding systems for the health care of the capital, which insists that financial support accompany patients between stations. This is essential to agree between the system between the current health care centres of Reykjavík and the private stations. It is also essential to adapt the services provided at the clinic to the financing model as it has been reassigned and that it is being processed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-23-38.u7	V.E.G. President. I'll come up here for a discussion with the highest. A health minister for the harsh fistula president of the Land Hospital regarding a town's financial shortage. In his fistula, the director reviews that the budget of the current year's budget was 1,400 million missing. K. for maintenance and innovation, but as it is known, housing is very low in many parts of the world and molds there and actually completely unacceptable work conditions. Then the director will review the need to provide money because of an automatic increase in demand for service because of the nation's older age and also points out that health insurance has an increase of about 1% despite the fact that the service at the Land Hospital is a specialized and life - saving program that must be the priority. So the land hospital can't get anything because of this expansion, but it would have to be according to the director's list of 1.7% a year. Other teams are then reviewed, such as remuneration and S-labelled medicinal products. We have repeatedly felt that there will be a higher budget for the hospital according to the current budget, it is easy to see that the hospital cannot carry out its legal duties if there is no increased financial support. So I ask the highest. Healthcare Minister: Are we looking for funding for maintenance and innovation as a result of growth and improvement in the 2nd Environment? A budget to Iceland's Land Hospital?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-23-38.u8	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator of this inquiry, which is similar to what has been heard before. When we discuss the budget for the health professionals in the country, the Lands Hospital has normalized a major amount of unity and importance in this regard. It is true that the director of the hospital has taken up this matter and discussed it. We are not seeing room for the budget that allows us to meet all of the hospital's greatest wishes, a long distance from that. We must also keep in mind that part of the funding system goes in 2016, a very large part of the budget involved, in remuneration of the Land Hospital as well as other institutions. I've stressed it, number one, two and three in the budget and in the work for the second. to finance waiting lists, to work on the waiting lists that had accumulated in the system. The ability of the system to perform that service varies greatly between institutions and after action. I can basically agree with the viewpoint that the director of the hospital shows that I rely on his assessment that he feels that the system has a full need for more money. I'd also like to say that my emphasis on the budget for 2016 - which I've previously said from this chair - lies this time on the welfare of the health care department, that it comes first. We're growing specialised areas there, increasing psychological care, and we're adding more money to home nursing. The director's fistula, quoted above, agrees that it will in a way ease the stress of a Land Hospital in a U.S. university hospital.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-23-38.u9	Mr. President. I'm sorry to be the highest. A health minister tells us here that the budget and funds needed for the land hospital should not be increased. There's no more demands here. The director reviews what has to happen, which is 2.5 billion, so that the hospital can be run within the budget. So I need to find answers to these questions from a minister: Will the Minister plan to secure this money to the hospital? Will he change the law so that the Landspians can run within the budget? Or is this simply to decide that the Land Hospital will have a home run? It is surprising that in the present year, there has been an increase in private business in the health - care system, that the welfare of the nation's land hospital cannot be financed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-23-38.u10	A respectable president. For word's sake. I'd like to say, as I know it is fully understood, that once the government has returned funding to the Council then all is authorized to change the bill the government has made in its affairs. While the will of individual Parliaments or individual ministers may be available for countless tasks, the main outcome is that it is the council that has custody over the financial bill while it is in progress. I hope there's no misunderstanding in that subject. I have full confidence that the hospital managers will keep the budget set by the council. In this year, especially this year, where the hospital is scheduled to be within the financial resources offered by the General Assembly, I assume that this will be the way the government will be maintained in the next year.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-23-38.u11	Mr. President. During the last weekend, the Specialist Party held its centre meeting in the Volgum of Waters Beach. There, the prime minister gave a very vigorous and positive talk, as his talks are usually. He stated that this was a nonsense economic growth and investment in many parts of the country, that in the past, inflation was more stable and less stable, and that there was now more money - gain compensation than before, and more than ever would have been seen in such a short period of time. That was a really good speech from the highest. Prime Minister, Optimism, and Good At the same time, however, a representative of the Assembly of the Assembly of forwarders was represented by the Council of Environment, held at the Grand Hotel. The talks and the pursuits there were not quite so beautiful. I have to say, I was half mad at the talks and descriptions made during that council. I'd like to read, with president's permission, a resolution that the meeting sent away: I'd like you to meet a senator. Do you want to create a community for everyone whose pensioners and their children have the opportunity for active community participation and not the fact that they are put on the clovers they now live in? You have the power to change. An open meeting of the Quantum Community, a standard of living for all held at the Grand Hotel Saturday, November 21, 2015, challenges members to influence the government's budget before 2016, as follows: Social security bills reexamined the same dollar number and the lowest pay increased on May 1, which is 31 levels. K. Social security bills are raising 15 levels. K. from May 1, 2016, which is a concomitant reduction of minimum wage. A dollar against a dollar is also required to remove the first amount of specific production. Senators, make it possible for us to be man - made. I would like to direct that inquiry to the prime minister - in view of his speech and the extraordinary position that has developed here in the past two years, since he took over and the highest. His government - whether it's not a table to meet this resolution from the Generous Community and see to it that people can live decent lives in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-23-38.u12	A respectable president. Thank you for asking a very important question. It's good to go. A member of the council is to promote the signs and language of the Continental League. Of course, this is a need for a reminder to all of us, but it is proper to put things in perspective. Not to be overlooked is the fact that all of us realize that there is a need to do better, and there is still a need to work on the solution. A senator listed that these materials have been taking the most important steps in the right direction for a very long time. In fact, I don't think there was as much of a pension as it was expected next year. It is an increase of almost 10%, and there will be no more predictions of inflation. But I'm aware of that, and the whole government, like any senator, that it will continue to improve the terms of this group. But for us to do so, we need to continue our course of action, at least. In the time of this government, to continue and to put more and more into this sect. There has never been so much socializing as there is in the present year, and there will be even more in the next. While we are aware that they are still lacking considerable weight, we must also place this in the context of the fact that these have seldom been taken or never taken as big as they are in the new year.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-23-38.u13	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the answers, but they are not perfect enough for this party. It was found that a 9.4% increase in basic pensions at the Insurance Institute is about 11 of you. K. per month. That's all the increases. If it's the biggest step we've taken, it's up to my judgment that it's just a terrible little step and not for our honor as a nation to make it through the knots. There was also a positive report for all of us at this meeting because in a Gallup survey made available to them by the Micro-Communications Act, where people were asked how they viewed these matters, it was stated that more than 90% of the population do not think they can live at 172 you. K. per month, which is the salary these people receive, and 95% thought that pensioners should have as high or higher a dollar rate than the lowest paid people. I challenge the highest. The prime minister I know is all of them willing to do well, to listen to the heart rate in the community, to listen to these people. I challenge him to meet these people who gave talks on Saturday and listen to their descriptions. [[The president calls.]] They were striking.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-23-38.u14	A respectable president. I won't belittle it as a dog. A member of the body points out that a group of people are in a state of great value and must be a priority to governments at one time trying to right the wrong. It is important to remember, though, that the situation of the disability and other pensioners, including older citizens, differs greatly. We must take into account the fact that in Iceland there are older citizens who stand quite well, a large part of senior citizens, while others are living at a higher rate, and many in the group of micro-organists have a much lower contribution than anyone here would trust to survive. Thank you so much. A senator for sticking to the material in this regard, hoping that there may be the best way to cooperate in the council between government and government positions with the work of a financial committee and then to address the problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-23-38.u15	V.E.G. President. I killed this last week of reports that it appears that last summer, a fairly small number of tourists were taking cruises into the Continental Land of the Horn Coast. This is a real concern because the Pacific Peace Land is probably one of the most natural bulbs we have. It has been possible to limit the number of people through it, and seemingly traffic by people around it. That is why there is a lot of concern if it's true that several groups of tourists are being let out of cruise ships up to Horník, where they go without supervision. The danger is that the area there will be damaged that is difficult and even impossible to fix again. That's why I want to ask the highest question. A minister whether she has or is in charge of some options to prevent this from happening, to stop these travellers, sort of on the back door into the country of peace. Now I realize this may be the custody of more ministers, possibly the highest. Industrial and commercial secretary who makes travel and even the Minister of the Interior as well. However, I would like to ask the highest. Ministers to whether she intends or is able to take any action to prevent damage to the reservation and traffic it will be as it has been, i.e. is not recommended and is limited.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-23-38.u16	A respectable president. Thank you. A sincere senator for this inquiry. I think it's obvious that people have to work together, and I think the ministry has to do a good job with the State Department of Internal Affairs because of the fact that the Home Office is under the Ministry of State, and I believe that the cruises have something to do with it. I know because the Grouping Room still doesn't think it's up to us to limit traffic. It seems fun that in this month Ágústsson sent me a long letter on this and what can be done about it. Yet, he has been the main inducer to get more cruise vessels into Iceland, which have been very enjoyable in recent years but are now worrying about this traffic, especially on the Horn Coast. The problem is that cruise ships, or expeditions, arrive in the country, are always first - base toll check. What I think we have to do is work, so we don't put people in the country unless there's a situation. Then I'd like to remind you that at the October Environment Parliament, a young man named Gauti Geirsson came to remind me that the fine man named, who was a cautionary man against Horn Beach, that we should take better care of the reservation, and he would like to increase it so that we could take better care of these things.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-23-38.u17	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of this answer. I'm glad she's interested in communicating with people in an effort to stop what I want to call a problem. I don't doubt that if a walking agency doesn't think he has the authority to intervene in this case, there's a request in this room to make the changes that might have to be made on the law or other in order to prevent such things from happening. At any rate, the minister's name is mystified, because if anything has to be changed in the law or rules to stem the fact that tourists are grouped into the Continental Land of Horn Beach, they should not be standing on the front side of the court. The minister of that subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-23-38.u18	A respectable president. I think it is very good advice to consider the matter better and to mention it, perhaps to start with those who have a interest in it or to take care of it. In the new nature protection laws that we have just agreed on, there is exactly a requirement that governments and protection programs should be placed at once 12 months from a state of peace, so we are under pressure to do what is good, so we are on our own. It is now in the development of a government and protection programme for the Horn Beach Peace Land in agreement with rural areas, landowners and stakeholders. We want to do well, so we've already set up a plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-23-38.u19	A respectable president. We've had a lot of migration lately. In fact, according to recent statistics from Iceland's Habitats, foreign citizens seem to be more than exported. Based on the pre-specified analyses, at least In the media, it seems to be education, that young people and educated people are primarily moving abroad. It must be a concern for the Icelandic government that people are moving out of the country, that there is a natural form of introspect. Ásgeir Jónsson, who died in economics at the University of Iceland, pointed out in an article in the reactor the other day that this was not a recession but, rather, a much more profound one. It is natural for young people to want to see the world, for it is said in Havinia, with the permission of a president: "The only one who knows is in many places - but there is no guarantee that these people will come back. I'd like to ask that question for the highest. prime minister whom he considers to be the reason for seemingly indiscriminate flights. How's the top? Government under the highest command. The prime minister to meet these young people who apparently do not find themselves here in Iceland, feel that they have no future, or can have a better future for their children, and may even not be able to work properly after long schooling? This is what I would like to ask the highest. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-23-38.u20	A respectable president. It is important to remember that much more people are moving to the country than since then. There's an application to move to Iceland, more appeal than is to move out of the country. It is true, however, that this is true. A senator points out that in recent times more Icelandic citizens have moved from one country than they do, but we cannot conclude that those who take the place are in some way inferior to the land. We must take a look at the status of the net. Still, there is reason to wonder why there has been an increase in the number of Icelandic citizens who move abroad. This may have some explanations. I think you're right. A senator points out that they are not economic, that people are not looking for anything else because they do not have an opportunity here because all comparisons to form neighboring countries, other European countries, show that the situation and opportunities are far higher in Iceland today than in many other countries. However, this is normal, and that is what happens. In fact, a senator reasoned that young people especially want to see the world, try to live in a new place, get to know life in foreign lands, work there for a while, or study there. It can hardly be the role of governments in such a country as Iceland to prevent people from having such an opportunity. There may have been a lack of opportunities to try to live abroad, but there are opportunities now when people are able to sell their house or apartment, they have improved their debt, and they are better equipped to move abroad for a while. Nothing but a good thing to say. [[The president calls.]] But I also agree with what. A senator, of course, I hope that as many of these people return to Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-23-38.u21	A respectable president. It is natural that many foreign citizens would like to come and live here. Whether it is an economic flight or not, there is a small difference between us. It's just a good thing to have a wide variety of communities, and maybe we have more equations in the community. For my part, and now I am even one of those young people who have fled the country and come back, and they needed one piece of generality in real life to come back, I think this is a bit of a matter of government flight. It seems to be a systematic corruption and Kaffiric method when it comes to dealing with all the Icelandic systems. People don't like it anymore. Sell what house? Young people my age have no houses. There's little between the hands anyway. [[The president calls.]] They may prefer and be able to find a future abroad rather than here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-23-38.u22	A respectable president. To the extent that this remark made. The senator was understandable, but she was simply not right. It's an opportunity. There are more jobs in Iceland, education and diversity in comparison with what happens in the countries around us that there is no reason for anyone to leave Iceland because there is no opportunity here. Actually, I didn't quite understand, Mr. Honorable President, what's the problem? A senator was about to leave the country, that of some Catholic corruption and such would result in people leaving the country. This, of course, is nonsense. You can see that in comparison, once again with other countries, even the countries to which people live, there is no way that in Iceland there is more corruption, more inequities, more remuneration, more remuneration or so. No, all the measurements show that in all these matters Iceland is the best thing to do in comparison with the nations, not just in Europe, but in the whole world. This does not change the fact that when people want to try to experience something new, governments must be ready to let them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-23-38.u23	Mr. President. When the Trustees of Sigmundur Davíð, Gunnlaugsson of Gunoll, began in the summer of 2013, projects related to the culturalist were transferred from the Ministry of Education to the Ministry of Presidency. One product of this transfer is the bill adopted at the last Council on the reservation in which the Ministers allow the intervention of the local organizational authority by taking the initiative at the Minja Institute for the protection of certain areas. However, I am still aware of what will happen if there is a disagreement about the initiative of the minister and the will of the local council to meet this initiative, but the answers to that question are hopefully made in the published Regulation on the subject. Another part of this transfer is the transformation of cultural laws. In 2012 the General Assembly was adopted a new panoramic law. According to the Presidency Department website, recommendations for changes in these laws were made, and they were started to be examined. All right, but this draft indicates that my decision is clear to the highest. The prime minister to take on great authority, which is poorly defined and more than moderate. It also shines through my knowing will. While it is highly clear that the planning of rural society is at the hands of rural but not the government, the prime minister to influence the organizational affairs of his community. It's mostly 10. This planned bill of the government's lawsuit I'd like to ask the highest. Prosecutor in that she would give him permission to take possession of land and building without any other authority. The design of this law makes me feel the highest. Prime Minister wants to make room for organizational decisions. Other Qualifications, including In the House of II, I am moved to give the highest. The prime minister sees no one but himself as a special guardian of our culture and monuments, which are in danger because of today's pressures. I think that's wrong - in addition to enough authority available in the current law for the sake of professional protection. To take possession of lands and monuments is a great intervention, and it is therefore a rich requirement for a minister to explain how such decisions should be made, why the highest. The prime minister sees the need for such regulations and in what situations the use of such a law may be tested. One example I can think of is possession and peace description of areas and buildings in the Hydromosis. It's the highest. The prime minister is to use these laws, to have the bill submitted and approved, to land or building in the depths, and thus put another stone in the street of those who want to build 20 of you. in line with the approved headquarters of the city of Reykjavík in not such a distant future?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-23-38.u24	A respectable president. I can see why. A senator is still concerned that there is not enough room here to tear down buildings and other structures and build more, new and bigger than any anxiety. However, a senator specifically asks about here, I think it is safe to say, as in fact, about the other one, absolutely unnecessary. Whether a minister intends to pursue a peaceful area of the Homeland Airport in the Waterstains, etc. changes in cultural laws are required during this council. First, the bill that is referred little to as to the possibility that this airport could be resolved. In fact, this is an interesting idea, which I have to admit had not occurred to me, but perhaps you should consider that indeed Reykjavík is the war zone from the time of World War II. Hv. A senator here blinds me to the idea that there may be reason to protect them from war. I don't expect the airport to be made this way or released to the State and to remind that the State already owns a large part of the country under the city of Reykjavík. Although this foretold bill cannot make much difference, I reiterate. It is also true to assume that the old tower called at Reykjavíkur Airport is already at peace, at the discretion of the secretary of May 2012. That, in my opinion, was a good decision for the local Ministry of Education, okay? paritaprevir The Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, is a remarkable monument and part of the story, as is true of the entire airport. As I say, I don't expect people to appease the entire airport as cultural, but I'll think about it after the tip. Senator. As for the possibility of taking up the arts of possession, and it also asks whether there is a possibility that the airport will be taken into possession, I reiterate what I pointed to earlier, that the Watermier airport is largely on land that is already owned by the state. This bill isn't being thought out of the airport. In fact, this bill has been in progress for a long time and has worked on the indication of those working on a monument. I believe that the article asked specifically about the possibility of possession education is focused on the fact that there are a number of people who are involved in this article's evaluations in the protection of cultures, that there have been cases of poor cultural background, even some of which the government has placed considerable financial resources. There have been tens of billions of dollars in renovating and protecting such mines, which are actually national property, but then a matter of ownership became considered, even to some extent, the investment of the human government in culture became the courts or damages. This is an option that I expect to have in this room so that it can be applied in such special circumstances but the government, of course, puts into practice the possibility of a possession course - already for various reasons - with great caution, with values that are much stronger in Iceland and therefore with the possibility of the government's rights, whatever the above question or other articles that allow special training in individual situations. The opportunity for such articles to be used by the State is very limited.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-23-38.u25	V.E.G. President. I'm very much in favor of the practical apartments for young people and others with no housing, but I'm not in favor of having them in the area where the watermy's at right now. We must look forward to the high duty of the capital of the region, since the capital area has many public service not in the country. People in many parts of the country need to get to the middle of the city of Reykjavík quickly to do things. In addition, because all numbers show that more medical flights pass through an airfield in the Habitat, it is necessary to keep the Watermaginus. Since time can really matter, it is important that the airport stays where it is. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-23-38.u26	A respectable president. I must admit that I was amazed when I saw this inquiry and linking Reykjavíkur airport with a discussion on protecting my culture, although it is true that my culture is there. I went on to ask myself, " Is it really that way? ' paritaprevir Heiða Kristín Helgadóttir see today's traffic in Reykjavík, as cultural, not as part of the country's now active society. I travel through the airport several times a week and see only that the traffic for it is quite a measure of professional status and employment in the country and that it can see people on the road to use and buy services for institutions and companies in the capital.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-23-38.u27	Mr. President. Thank you very much. His prime minister surmised the answer because I think we both know that I am not suggesting that his Ministry of Peace, far from the airport. I want the airport out of the Water marshes because I think it's a very important matter for Reykjavík and that's why it's all country. Since it is assumed that Reykjavíkurburg is under obligation to expel her in a practical way, and the city can be found in a practical way only if it has the opportunity to converge the building so that, for example, public transportation can be run in a practical way and, for example, try not to use the personal car all the time, even though it is okay. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister, how he envisions the development of the city of Reykjavík. How does he envision development here if it is not to be in accordance with the established primary structure for the modern airport? I think it is very important to see the Prime Minister's vision because both the bill I refer to here, even though it is simply subtracted, and other prime signals that have come up and some ideas have been, so I'm just sure that Prime Minister will be in line with the policies and currents that come with the city of Reykjavík. I don't like it, and I would want more and better conversation between us about this and a clearer view.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-23-38.u28	A respectable president. We are here for a discussion of a matter that did not start with, but it was all right. Hv. A senator says that he doubts that I am going to play with the direction and currents that Reykjavíkurburg is following in organizational matters. I can truly confirm that I do not go in the way of the city's policies. In the United States, greed has become the focus of the global debate on the economic breakdown. I don't know what else to call it, except for greed, when the city authorities in Reykjavík run a policy that directly promotes expansion in the very limited part of the city, the middle zone, fosters that the old and small, and that instead, as many and the cheapest squares away, the air moves toward buying and selling back and forth and forth, a higher and higher price is constantly laid on it and hoped for more and more square miles so that ultimately the city is in effect, in effect spreading enormous valuables to those who are prepared to go on the most foundation. It's a course that I'm not going to play with, a respectable president, so it's a pleasure to have a chance to make it right here after the question of which. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-23-38.u29	President. There's a lot of shit going on today, and people are getting a long way out of options and solutions from the highest level. Secretary of society and housing. There are many insurmountable barriers that have evolved because of this condition and an intolerable new demand that virtually no one can live up to that market. For the majority of them, the charge for many months is almost an insurmountable obstacle. This obstacle is added to the other advantages of the land rent. Long - term rent is almost impossible, and there is nothing new. There are a lot of people who are in dire need to have no houses or rent homes that are either too small, in the wrong place, or too expensive in relation to their provisional income. So I want to ask the highest. The social and housing secretary of the following questions: First of all, the count is the highest. Ministers need to change the law code on bail money or other guarantees that landlords can demand from renters on public markets? Second place: feels the highest. A minister intended for changes in rent law in this respect enough to allow a free tenet to develop in a way that allows people to have practical options for renting rents? Third, they say it's the highest. Ministers that low - income and intermediate workers have a realistic means of extending in advance of many months of rent to the average rent on the capital area? Fourth and last: Which other avenues have the highest priority. A minister to make arrangements to meet or assist people who are not entitled to the social housing system and who do not have money to pay for their own housing or high bail fees for renting? Now I've been here many times asking the highest. Minister to planned primary communications on the housing system. Sadly, during the last assembly, they burned, and I have not yet seen the proposed bills, and the time is short before the year is due. I'd like to ask you if it's safe to know that these bills now and if not whether a minister is not prepared to submit temporary measures to make sure that people have covered their heads for the holidays.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-23-38.u30	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for her questions to me. First question. Hv. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir asks if I believe the need for a law code on bail money or other guarantees that landlords can demand from renters on public markets. I can say here that I believe so, but in bill to legalize the tenures I intend to propose to the Council for the next few days, there are certain changes made in the rights and guarantees of the rights of a lease that a landlord may require of a tenant. I do not suggest, though, that there will be a change in the maximum amount of bail that can be demanded of a tenant. Thus, the landlord may continue to request a maximum bail money of three months' rent. I am well aware that maximum deposit level can be high for tenants in general view of the financial situation of the local worker, and I have compassion for that. There, however, there are differences between tenants and landlords. In view of the fact that if a tenant contract is to be torn down but a tenant does not leave the tenant office, and such cases need to be extended for longer than three to four months, tenants have to be criticized. Thus, even the maximum bail level is not enough to deliver rent - rent income during the eviction period. I appreciate it so that renters can limit their damages at three months' rent pay, taking into account that there are often large sums of money. At the same time, I felt that it was urgent, as was shown by a team on the future planning of housing and project management, to consider which avenues are able to speed up the situation in which renting does not meet contracts and refuse to leave the rented home following a ribs. The inquiry also asks whether I consider the proposed changes in rent law sufficient in this respect to allow free rent to develop in a way that allows people to have a realistic choice of renting. The primary objective of the bill on changes in rent law is to increase the security of tenants and make more firm in the way tenants and landlords deal with each other so that problems can be avoided later. However, it is emphasized that free contracts are between landlords and tenants, but we want to set a legal frame for a party. However, I believe it is important to ensure a closer surveillance of the Icelandic tenet, so it is suggested in the bill that the solutions of the House Committee on the Management Board and the implementation of contracts will be binding on the parties. They also ask you what question is. A senator whether I believe that low - income and intermediate workers have a realistic means of doing several months in advance of rent over the average rent in the capital area. There are also questions about other ways to meet or assist people who are not entitled to the social housing system and who do not have money to pay for their own housing or high rent insurance fees. I am aware that the maximum amount of deposit can be taken up with large sums of money, as it was going through here and with what it did. Senator. However, tenures continue to be arranged in other responsibilities and insurance that tenants can offer, such as bank responsibilities, commitments to third parties, and rent-authority insurance from an insurance company. Then there is the bill that will show up here in the near future that a landlord who is a professional hireer and renting out a job house, including rural society, will be allowed to demand that the tenant pay a very modest fee in the so-called hire-aid insurance fee instead of standard insurance. The fee is expected to be able to obtain less than 10% of monthly rent prices and be paid at the beginning of a contract and possibly every year if the contract is non-interrupted or when contracting. This new option should be useful to tenants, for the price is expected to be very moderate. At the same time, landlords, at least larger tenants who have many tenants, should look to the advantage of applying this option, assuming that there is virtually no insurance management. The student's community has a similar arrangement, but tenants pay four. K. ... in the preparation and after the experiences of a reimbursement of a contract, and the fee runs into a fund that serves the same purpose as the above insurance fund. Then it is my hope that has to do with a question. A senator and an addition, that the bill for a new social cab spray system and a bill for the law on a general apartment that I intend to provide at the same time in the near future, will lead to an increased supply of rent houses at a manageable price for less tenants. I also believe that the bill for repairs will lead to increased housing support to tenants who should be returned to a more realistic rented option for Icelanders. This can be pointed out as related to a secondary question. A senator, that is just what he is looking for to make changes in income markets and expand the rights that have been present in the present legal environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-23-38.u31	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. The foreman of this important query. What I'd like to say here is that it's important to watch the overall picture of the housing bills that will come into the council in the days ahead and that they will be fulfilled because there we will see, as the Supreme Court does. The social and housing minister came in, increased support to those entering the rented market, and increased the supply of apartments. If we have extra supply, hopefully we'll cut down rent prices. At the same time, there will be various incentives for long-term leases. It's very important to watch the bigger picture. I welcome new ideas as the highest. A social and housing minister suggests different ways of providing housing assurances because there is a reality that a group of people find it difficult to provide insurance, and it is very positive that more than one specific action in those areas will be offered. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-23-38.u32	President. I appreciate the answers. However, I feel inadequate to get a clearer picture of the timing of the secretary's suggestion that these matters be completed at the General Assembly. Every month counts. Now we've been waiting a long time. I know that's also true for many of the top party sisters. Minister. For example, in the bill previously assigned, it was in the 21st floor. Suggested that the self-respecting responsibility of third parties to insurance forms be removed. I would like to ask, "Why? " Often, that can be the only option. Some people just have no choice. Should people start taking small loans in order to earn money? What kind of vicious cycle is being suggested for those who are in trouble serving so high? I'd also like to ask if it's the highest. A minister has some idea of why - in the past, the arrangement was usually made so that you put on bank responsibility or insurance villil - instead of putting on cash. I think it's kind of the requirement that's been made. In the vast majority of cases, that is an arrangement. Then, as important as it is, I would like to ask if a minister has an idea of how common it is that expeditation is needed in the wake of a argument. It is often a law that makes it very difficult for the public to live by the system we recommend. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-23-38.u33	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator once again for these inquiries. I know she cares about this case because she has a lot of experience with the rent market herself. I reiterate what I said in my reply that there remains other responsibilities and guarantees that tenants can offer, such as bank responsibility, commitment to third parties and rent-and-clad insurance. Besides, there's the new note I mentioned about your insurance policy. For example, this has proved to be very good for one of the largest tenants we have, a community center of students. It was also a decision in agreement with the labour market partners and their communities on what returned to the social cab spray system. Ideas had been saying that renting an apartment should be some kind of apartment payment or the contribution of a tenant to renting an apartment, but it had been dropped. It is assumed that there will be nothing other than what is related to the rent law regarding the new social rental system. I'd like to agree with that as well. A senator mentioned, i.e. The emphasis I spoke about, looking to the whole thing, to all the suggestions that will appear here. I'd like to mention, for example, the housing partners. Although the word is "heavy," it is the word we use for it, we are once again trying to set certain restrictions on how much money you can charge for the estate. We're going to better frame what's involved in insurance, and we're putting a lot of emphasis on creating a very powerful, sustainable, new, social teneting system for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-23-38.u34	A respectable president. I have asked some questions about violence against disabled people and have also asked the Minister of the Interior, then there are queries relevant to the highest level. Minister of Social Affairs. A few years ago, a study for the Ministry of Health, if I recall correctly, in September 2013, was conducted in a report dealing with violence against the disabled women. Among other things, it was to recognize the nature of violence against disabled women and to discuss the difference between the violence that individuals use in women who are disabled and that of established violence. This is a major analysis that I encourage people to take a good look. This is based on deep interviews with 13 disabled women who had been violent in an effort to discern the circumstances in which they were affected. This report contains, this is a 50 - page report, a considerable number of suggestions for reforming, including the proposed investigation of specific factors. This report shows that most of these women have had a long history of subjugation and violence, many forms of violence, from childhood harassment to sexual violence by marriage mates or by staff in homes for disabled persons. The report makes it clear that the situation of those who were disabled has contributed to the violence. Therefore, I think it is very important that we get together to take needed measures to strengthen these women and put them in such a position that they can escape this violence that they have many of them, too many, to be affected. This report suggests, for example, that disabled persons are increasingly subject to greater independence, financial independence, and independence as well as to how people live their lives. In this regard, NPA is especially mentioned. So I want to ask the highest. Minister: What are the suggestions for improving that are mentioned in this report? I would also like to ask about NPA, what its status and future are in this light. I think it is very important that disabled women and disabled people in general get the freedom to live their lives as they need and that we control them, i.e. that they are increasingly given authority over their own lives.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-23-38.u35	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir for her inquiry about results and reforms in a report on violence against disabled women. Like what? A senator went through them explains how many acts of violence were done, from childhood harassment to sexual abuse by marriage mates or by staff in homes for disabled people. Practical suggestions on how to prevent violence against disabled women and on how to back up those who have been abused are provided. In many cases, the report of the women indicated that they had not received the help and support they needed to deal with the violence, while violence was maintained by inactivity and silence. Is this in harmony with foreign research? Also found in foreign studies, it is that when disabled women step up, report violence, they often respond that society does not believe them or that we want to protect them too much. This was exactly what was being pointed out in a recent document or claim, and it stressed that violence against disabled women, against disabled people, is involved in the separating process. It is being carried out by a declaration of national agreements against violence and the consequences, signed by three advisers, Ministers of Internal Affairs, Education and Culture Ministers, and by me, social and housing. We've been thinking about what may be new in Iceland as a whole of action programs against violence and its consequences. The fact that we believe that it is proper that three ministers and even more people come to this case will tell us how far we need to be on guard against violence of any kind and actually in all areas of society. However, we specifically state in the declaration that there are certain groups in the community that are more vulnerable to violence and the nose especially violent against disabled people. Work on this strategy is under way, and we have emphasized that this is a national agreement. It is not that governments intend to implement a plan of action. Rather, it will be undertaken in a broad discussion. We have put much emphasis on this, and repeated the invitation that disabled people's interests come directly to the table and work with us. At the same time, we are working on a new program on disabled people's issues and following up an earlier strategy. It also includes the laws that were accepted during the last term, when the year was due. A member of the government, the Department of Rights, has made a big difference; they turn to the rightfulness of the Ministry of Health, where representatives represent the interest groups of disabled people and rights officers throughout the country in assisting disabled persons in caring for their rights. The court officials have cooperated with the police, which has led to an improved job response to a police investigation where women who are disabled are suspected of being violent and will work to ensure that this procedure will be taken care of throughout the country. We have also supported the hospitals, our larger hospitals, to hire specialists to provide post - violence crisis aid. It is important to keep in mind that the support of all those who suffer violence is theirs. We are also appointing a committee to share the interest of disabled persons in reviewing the orbs of disabled persons. We will ask the next written request to the local community what their arrival is that of the summer vacation resorts of disabled people. For some suggestions for improvement, we've had educational materials prepared for the staff of rural personnel and health services available on the web at the beginning of the next year. It has also been decided to provide research centres in disability studies with the strength to produce presentations to follow the report that we are here on with funding for the development programme in disabled persons. We have also distributed the report to the right men in any form of presentation and education. We've taken up the case with the Children's Institute and Children's House to provide funding so that employees can pursue education and training to provide disabled children who are suspected of having been violent, specialized services. We have also given Steps a special contribution to advisers and support from sexual abuse. We have received a presentation on the subject of sexual education for disabled persons and are going over it, they have received a very positive report, how we can guarantee them financial support. [[The president calls.]] I have other factors about working in the homes of disabled people as well as about MPA. [[The president calls.]] I'm going to come to that in later on in my answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-23-38.u36	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir for this important question she raised. I have also brought some questions to the highest level. Minister of well-being involved in this matter. There is an enormous amount of research and a great knowledge of how disabled women are treated with violence, so the intellectual knowledge is not missing, it is well documented. What is the main thing in my mind, however, is what is at its height. A minister himself said that studies show that violence thrives best in separate options. That's why I missed it from the top answer. Ministers suggest that governments can help those who are disabled from their specialized resources so that they can live a normal life like other people in the community. That's how I think we're going to have to handle the case so that the violence won't come to an end.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-23-38.u37	Mr. President. First, I want to thank the advocate for this discussion. We never talk too much about this party, and it's clear, after working as a senator for two and a half years and focusing on these matters and getting me into them, that improvement is needed. You are struck at all that news and all that has been going on in Iceland for decades - the way you treat, the way you treat people, the way you treat those who are disabled, the least you are at risk of abuse. As a matter of fact, I welcome it to the highest degree. A minister said about the work that has started, and I hope she places great emphasis on it. I was also glad that in her talk, she mentioned that she was going to call disabled persons to the table to work on this matter. I think there's one key element in getting to the bottom so we can settle down on this, i.e. to get disabled people to the table. They know what it's all about like what itSteinunn Þóra. This is the key. I'm supporting the Minister for all good works in this. We need to eliminate this national ills.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-23-38.u38	Mr. President. I thank the Minister and the people who have brought this matter up because it is so incredibly important. We know that this violence is taking place, we know that it thrives under the cover of the system, so to speak, and we need to take action to overcome it. What I think is, after reading the suggestions in this report, as revealed by the minister, that we need to get out of these separate measures somehow. We have a project, such as a user - controlled personal help, so I would like to reiterate my question to the minister of where that assignment is being carried out. It is still in some experimental phase, and it does not become systemically available. I feel that such a project is important because it is another kind of violence that people are subjected to but only to sexual violence or harassment. It is that people are not allowed to live their lives free. They're always putting disabled people somewhere, and they can be done, and they can be done, but we don't give people the tools to live their lives free and do what they want and want to do, and they're one form of violence on the part of society. It's nobody's fault, it's just a system we've been putting up for quite some time and we need to revise now that we know how it works. Then it is sexually abused. I think we need to take it in particular, and I've asked the Minister of Internal Affairs about whether or not she's trying to take special care of it. I think it needs to be done because there is also another aspect of this, and he is that very many disabled women do not have the ability to express themselves about the violence they have experienced. [[The president calls.]] We need to hold them tight and try to get the violence out of our hands.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-23-38.u39	A respectable president. I want to thank you for this discussion and for the suggestions that have been made in it. As noted above, I would answer a portion of the question, and then I would refer to a work plan on the affairs of disabled people, which clearly stipulates that the setting of the household of disabled people should meet common standards and rooms that do not meet such criteria should be set down in steps. As we have discussed, it has been shown that the risk of making suicide is highest in housing measures that do not meet such general standards. Since 2011, there has been a significant decrease in bedrooms, and together the number of specific farm-making facilities has increased as services are directed toward the individual in the individual's own apartment. Such changes reduce the risk of self-involved risks and are in line with a plan in the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Infirm People. Rightskeepers visit the homes of disabled persons in a special district of residence and present their roles to the residents and study the profile of staff there and give tips if necessary. I'd also like to mention the cooperation that has been developing over the last year and a half, and I'm getting in between detectives and court officials in view of the state of consciousness that is becoming a member of society. I'd like to mention the initiative taken by the Southland police, which will increase the safety of disabled people in their homes. Regarding NPA, I truly appreciate the importance of using personal assistance as an option, and there is a need to promote education to disabled persons on the options. In 2012 there were 20 agreements on personal aid in ten service areas, which in October 2015 included 55 in ten areas. This is linked to the introduction of experimental projects. However, we have not finished, and we have had a conversation with our rural communities about the emphasis we need to set so that we can complete the project and legalize the options.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-23-38.u40	V.E.G. President. It's not long since we were standing here, and we discussed this same matter, but that part is easy for children. It was a real pleasure that just before, information on the increase in budgets for development and behavior that hopefully will be improved by Icelandic children. But I'm here to discuss the diagnosis of adults. There's a special ADHD team operating at the Land Hospital, and now in October about 630 people were standing by for that team. From this data, the mean number of new references is 35 per month for the last 18 months, whereas the ADHD team is about 35 individuals per month. That means that it's not checked on the waiting list, and based on my calculations, a person who receives a reference to the team needs to wait 17 months for the scan and then analysis. Many people do not have to say that it is difficult to have undiagnosed ADHD, and many adults have come across many obstacles in life because of their circumstances. Thus, it is important that people receive diagnosis, medications, or other means of dealing with day - to - day life without the greatest barriers. I have four questions for the minister. The first is: Is a minister aware that more than 600 adults are waiting for an analysis and treatment because of an overactive attention span? What, however, does a minister consider acceptable waiting time for a diagnosis for children and adults? What kind of work is being done at the Ministry of Health to deal with the emergency problems facing a waiting period after diagnosis and treatment of attention deficits in adults? What work is being done to better define the process from screening to final analysis, including a workgroup, so that individuals seeking help, parents of children, or adults do not have to find out for themselves where to get help and land on the list of waitings for each step? People don't always know where to go. That's not obvious at all. There are months, even years, when people are waiting for uncertainty, but they live through obstacles that make it harder to deal with the challenges of daily life.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-23-38.u41	A respectable president. Hv. As shown in her talk, a senator directs me four questions. I'm going to try to answer them as best I can and as well as my prisoners. First, she asks, " Am I aware that more than 600 adults are waiting for the diagnosis and treatment of attention deficits with hyperactivity? ' So it is quickly sworn: Yes, I'm aware that more than 600 people are waiting for the ADHD team to detect a lack of attention and hyperactivity. Before a thorough diagnosis of ADHD is started, there is a screening for ADHD and about 50% of those who have been screened for the ADHD team have not been considered to have a complete diagnosis of ADHD. Second, a senator asks whom I consider an acceptable waiting period for a diagnosis for children and adults. Of course, one might say that waiting time is the best time, but surgeons have set the criteria for waiting for a variety of services within the medical system. In view of the surgeon's office, specialised services should not be longer than three months. Surely such would be desirable. However, this is not entirely compatible with the opinion of a Land Hospital, which feels that an acceptable waiting period for diagnosis among adults is between six and eight months. The person present is not in a position to distinguish and resolve between professional viewpoints that have discussed these matters. Third, ask why. Senator what work is going on at the Ministry of Health to deal with emergency problems due to waiting hours for analysis. Then I'd like to mention that earlier this year a contract was made between Iceland's Medical Insurance and the Land Hospital for Service to People because of suspicion of attention deficit by overactivity. The Convention includes detailed analysis for 180◯210 adult subjects and a group treatment regimen for mental attention, which is available for 2,230 subjects over a 12 month period. Waiting for adult diagnosis, like colic. A senator mentioned, not far in the past. They haven't been strong either. To shorten the waiting list, you would need to take temporary steps to process them. Finally, what work was being done to better define the process from screening to final analysis, i.e. Based on the workforce, individuals in search of help, parents of children or adults do not have to find out for themselves where help is and land on a waiting list each step. The surgeon general is investigating the diagnosis of ADHD with attention failure in both children and adults, and it is likely to result in some findings from such work and such analyses. In addition, I have prepared, and it's in the starting rooms to set up a team to review this collectively with my children, as this also involves the education system. Then I'd also like to mention that we're waiting for the review of the Kingdom Accounting on these matters. I hope that the results of this assessment will provide us with helpful information on how we can make things work better than so far. For adults, the Landspians have set a well defined procedure from physician reference, screening, and finally analysis. In these words, I have little to say about the answers to the four questions that arise. A senator pointed to me in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-23-38.u42	Mr. President. Thank you for this discussion and for asking, and thank you very much. Minister to his answers. I strongly encourage him to use his full weight in this case to try to solve this clearly enormous problem. As mentioned in my inquiry to him the other day about a similar matter regarding children, this is one of the greatest health problems and woes in modern society, especially because it affects so many other factors. We all know people who have had a mental disorder and who have experienced relief from illness after diagnosis and treatment. It has to be said right now that there is a huge benefit to Icelandic society if you can get people into analysis and treatment as soon as possible. Many people have experienced disasters in their lives. I have met people who have been treated, both medically and mentally, and they have an amazing impact on their lives. I'm the highest. A health minister to continue working on these issues fully.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-23-38.u43	Mr. President. Early intervention is very important in the services of individuals who have been diagnosed by some means. Hence, it is important that children and simply all receive services as early as possible and in the analysis. That's why I'm glad that the gift has been given in addition to development and behavior stations. That will be of great importance to many. When it comes to adults, I'm worried about the situation, but I'm glad it's the best. Healthcare Ministers are setting up a working group, and a contract with health insurance will be implemented and the Land Hospital will be provided with mental treatment to address this problem. I'm the highest. Ministers continue to do good things in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-23-38.u44	The Honorable President. I want to start by thanking the highest. The health minister's heartfelt attention to meaningful answers. I agree with what. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson, this is a very important matter. Not only is this of utmost importance for the quality of life of those involved but this community as a whole is of great importance. Very many who end up in prison have undiagnosed ADHD. It is similar with people who get involved in serious drug abuse, who fail to provide assistance, and who seek to numb their feelings of distress. It is a form of social ills, in which the aetiology is maligned and untreated ADHD. About waiting time. We can see from both of these criteria, though I feel that the three-month qualification of surgeons is the normal standard. It needs to be done better. You have to put more money on it temporarily. Then I think a minister should see if there's any reason to come to an ADHD team in the north to serve the northeast area, then to the Akureyri Hospital. I would like to encourage the Minister to include the ADHD organisation in the group to review the overall. That's where it burns. Of course, the organization knows best what it means to live with undiagnosed ADHD, and where the shoe most squeezes in these cases. Otherwise, I'd like to thank you again for your clear answers and promise to the highest degree. Ministers in full support of these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-23-38.u45	A respectable president. I thank the advocates of speech and those who have shared in the discussion with me about important matters. I accept the importance presented here, as well as the assurance of support in making improvements in this subject. I'd also like to say that it is often important to try to get more money to work on such projects, but it may also be wise to draw up better analysis and new processes before trying to sell the projects and to fight to gain money. I'd also like to mention that I'm aware of the problems involved in having a long waiting list here and there in the system. In terms of the situation in particular with ADHD, I simply decided to put children first when I was looking for money to enter the system. Until I see a new fat fund, which hopefully comes in with light and warm next year, I've been doing it. I agree with the views presented here. There is good reason to consider this in a larger context as well, even in the Northland or the larger institutions, as well as to consult a representative of patients, such as the ADHD Association, when we discuss longer periods of policy development. Like what? The senators hear what I'm saying. I'm still putting information into my mouth. I would also like to reiterate that, depending on the decision of the State Reconnaissance on the arrangement of these factors. I expect there to be a basis for our improvement.
