ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u1	Hv. All council members. Before the program, I would like to bring to the attention of the Generals that today, September 15, is the international day of democracy. The General Assembly of the United Nations agreed in 2007 that September 15 is an international democratic day to commemorate the Declaration of the International Parliament of the International Assembly, IPU, in September 1997. The first International Democracy Day was celebrated on September 15, 2008. Since that time, the United Nations has set up a sign of democracy especially during that day as a team in the worldwide expansion of democracies. This year the United Nations stresses the importance of public involvement in politics for democracy. Not all nations are fortunate enough to live in democracy, so we Icelanders can be grateful for this day that this is a time of democratic government. Since the General is the cornerstone of our administration, it is appropriate to remember the democracy Day at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u2	As has been reported at the beginning of a meeting yesterday, a letter has been received from Ottari Proppér, 11th. Smoke. As well as the 6th vice president of the Generals, that he resigns as the 6th vice president of the Generals. This meeting, therefore, will be scheduled for vice president 6th. I've received one commission, 6th. Smoke. So, Róbert Marshall. Since there are no more than chosen, I shall declare Róbert Marshallur to be the 6th vice president of the Generals. I congratulate him on his vote and for his entire career.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u3	A respectable president. We Icelanders need to deal with the situation of refugees as moral solutions, not as a major problem for us, something that may have to stop us. The subject of war - torn refugees is humanitarian, and the heavy refugee stream to Europe from Syria, Afghanistan, and other war zones, the situation of the people, and the fate of many of those who have not reached all parts of the continent have moved the entire population. A growing pressure on the government has been put on public opinion to cope with the crisis. Unfortunately, Iceland's government has drawn its feet with submerged declarations that something will be done, but then little has happened, and now it's starting to be heard calling from professionals like the Red Cross and help institutions. Social Affairs minister has called on the public for support, but when faced with what is to be done, they provide vague answers. The Minister's Committee is set up, followed by silence. What are we waiting for, Mr. President? The threat is now, and when the emergency calls, we need to respond. Today, 22 members of Parliament have proposed a decree, as it were. paritaprevir Sigríður Ingadóttir Iggadóttir is a 1st carrier to receive at least a 500 refugees to Iceland. In view of my circumstances, I hope that proposal will receive a good welcome and careful discussion at the council. Iceland and I are aware of the importance of humanitarian and cohesiveness in times of disaster. Therefore, I hope now that we will bring our brothers and sisters to their aid in distress, for war is, of course, a disaster. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u4	A respectable president. I'm kind of reluctant to bring up the subject that the Ponta IIis is not fully available. It's too slow because I feel uncomfortable representing this case, because it's a prince's business. So I've chosen not to make any sense of it until now for two reasons. First of all, because less than two years ago, I was given to tell you how to use the torture. A few months later, I found out that the pontan had become wheelchair - friendly, and as soon as it made me happy, I had a little lump in my stomach. The story contained a picture of two upstairs male wheelchair members, not one of whom is the deputy. I was a little surprised that I hadn't been called after to try a pontula where people knew I could work here again. Second, I bring up my convictions because I cannot give disabled people the message that disabled members of Congress are worth less than other members, women, and men. True, some of us may take part in politics and make ourselves available for Congress, but we may need to be content to sit on the side of the council hall and speak from our seats where we see less and our voice may not be so well heard, that we do not need to be able to enter a pontu, now, or in the seat of a minister or president of the council, since we are not expected there. I can't send them a message anymore. People who have gone down the path for my generation all over the world simply owe it to me that I'm not such a pussy. A general assembly must be motivated by love of old historical figures more than the rights of the citizens to political involvement. It must change its direction, its appearance, and its credibility and make needed changes so that all sorts of people can pursue politics in any form, whether walking, sitting, or lying. This must take place in full agreement with different groups of disabled people.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u5	A respectable president. Today is September 15, the International Day of Democracy. On that occasion, I believe it is important to remind us why democracy is important and what it is. Although all of us here, and probably overwhelmingly overwhelmingly more of the nation, are democrats and call themselves such, the attitude toward democracies and the mismanagement of these differences is different. Secular democracy is important because our freedom is important; self - determination is important. The democracy is important because of the revulsion of power, or at least its ugliness. Power over others is never default and always requires adequate justification. That is why the Council has authority over the nation, because these are ideal individuals. If not, this power would be unjust, and it should not only be skeptical but also actively combating it. But we live in a world where power is necessary, unfortunately, but we also live in a rapidly changing world that makes it possible to remove authority from many parts of society, scatter it, even to individuals under certain circumstances and in some respects. I believe, more dignified President, when they have the opportunity to disseminate the power and to spend it and divide it beyond our own rights, we should at least try.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u6	V.E.G. President. The first week here at the beginning of the council has largely been a discussion of the budget, the nature of the case, but yesterday many notable members of Congress were discovered. I feel that the work is going well and is somewhat optimistic about the tone given here at the beginning of a council. There is reason to be optimistic about the success of our Senate work if we follow this lead, for there are many urgent challenges. I'll mention the housing, the interest of older citizens, the disability and the support and the capture of refugees. I could mention more urgent tasks, but when I talk about a positive tone that is being made here at the beginning of the council, I feel that it is marked by positive financial laws, the rest being proclaimed, and the prospects in the Icelandic economy, the balance established by government management and the fact of the highest degree. The government has now provided a budget for the third time. The government's failure is to achieve steady balance after a permanent battle and a debt collection of the years preceding. A respectable president. At the same time, large profits in a labour market have been achieved and prices have been maintained at the time, thus increasing the financial resources. Well, then it's got the highest. A government has completed many of the major matters proposed and established in a government covenant. I'd like to mention a legal correction for the homes and a trustworthy disposal programme. Large, extensive, and complex solutions that have been successful. A respectable president. Admittedly, the government of government can be a challenge, and the big project ahead is to pay off debts and make use of the money that will go on paying interest and thus create opportunities for further building up.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u7	V.E.G. President. I have had a lot of talk about driving courses and the circumstances in the country. Today, only driving school 3 in Akureyri can be taught to do so. A driving school 3 needs a special driving program, which should be designed to teach people, including driving in a slippery and winter conditions. The irony is that many studies there have fallen because of winter conditions. Although individuals are expected to have room for driving school, 3 or 3 and a half years, most people want to complete their license as soon as possible. Also, I wonder, when an individual has had the right to drive a car for three years, whether he has been an unbecoming driver the whole time and what the purpose should be of this. The cost of flying is enormous. Added to that is the cost of driving school 3, incubating, and perhaps in bed, but it was originally assumed that all parts of the country could be taught by driving. It hasn't worked out. If a course goes down and a person's bought a plane, it's also in vain. Even the individual needs to get back to his home and attend the course later. The same review should take place regarding studies for those who have lost their license. They do not have a license to get from A to B in a car, but they should still have four weekly courses in Reykjavík. People living under different conditions in the country, including those mentioned, have often been discussed in this ponta, that flights from Isafjörður have frequently fallen, and people have complained to us senators in the district of each set of cost that affects families, especially in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u8	President. I'd like to congratulate all members of the council as well as the people of the country today. I am very happy that there is a day of democracy in which we look at the importance of caring for democracy. I'd like to get a big hold of a press release that came from the International Parliament, which is, the strength of democracy is based on public political involvement. The International Parliament Union celebrates the day of democracies by sending out a call today for a tremendous effort to have the public more involved in formal political events and access to Congress. It also encourages the Assembly to be more open and accessible to its citizens and to act as advocates to all who live in the community. Democracy's concept is based on the right of individuals to participate in and have representatives in the management of public affairs and on the decisions that affect their everyday lives. Despite the fact that 190 national conventions are being elected directly by more part of the Parliament, there is a much greater trend for the actual implementation of democracies. I find it quite remarkable that it comes from the International Parliament, since it is possible for members from all parts of the world to be accessed where democracy cannot be spoken directly, such as China or Iran. I would like to challenge us here at the council to set a good example and, for example, have committee meetings open and in the audience.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u9	V.E.G. President. The fall is often marked by a certain expectation and joy of returning to work refreshed by summer vacation. Children and young people return to their schools, and we face new challenges, a new study material that is based on what has been previously discussed, perhaps new schoolmates, or even new teachers. The sins of the past are somewhat forgotten or old, and there is opportunity to set goals for winter and to improve things that were not well done in the preceding winter. We here at the Council may find ourselves in some respects in a similar situation. New councils and new challenges come to us in the form of new conferences that need to be studied and accepted, but they are also old acquaintances in mixed form. We will handle these matters, and that is normal. As advocates of different viewpoints, we were elected by the nation to provide for them. I hope we have the wisdom to keep the political bitch and talk about her in the foreground at this council. We should not have to waste our time and energy in handling such issues as the program. However, we do this only with a thorough consultation, in which the government's opposition is in place instead of being put before a one - side application at the President's topic. It will always end in discussions about shape and not political content.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u10	A respectable president. Now in the day of democracy, it is appropriate to speak a few words about democracy in Iceland. The democracy has to be more than just choosing every four years, it has to be more than just choosing a representative to sit in this room here. The democracy is about the participation of people in decisions they make. Walking to election once every four years is just part of it. A second part of the democracy that is essential is transparency. A general assembly gathers in a voice, and it has been that long. However, not all decisions are discussed here, not all exchanges are held here in this council hall. Committee meeting is a large part of creating the laws and policies on which our country lives. During 2015, only three committees of many have been held in the hearing. At committee meetings, there is information sharing from stakeholders, from people in a town between members of the Parliament and from local ministers to members of Congress. This is the basis for a change in the law or a support for why the law is the way it is, why the law is like this and not gay. Lack of access to this information means that when it comes to choosing an agent, it has less to play. Information is essential to making an informed decision. That the Council chooses to keep committee meetings closed prevents the general public from making informed decisions on certain issues and representatives. This will prevent people from forming an informed opinion about what happens at the General Assembly. The democracy is only as strong as the participation of the people. I rejoice in the democracy we live in today, but I also have the dream that the meetings of the Allied Council will be held in the hearing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u11	V.E.G. President. First, I want to congratulate the entire country that the day of democracy is 365 times a year in Iceland. But I'm a little worried about the newcomer and I'm the guy who proclaimed the Secret Bank's direction promotions. The bank's money policy has in itself become a special economic problem in Iceland. In recent years, growing numbers have worked and have worked as a source of inflation and burden on people and businesses. These decisions play a role in the growth of the interest paid by the creditors. The waiting bank is certainly a problem in which there are signs of thawing, and surely recently obtained agreements and those who are now in the load, hopefully, quite fraught. It may be our generals to determine whether or not the emphasis on inflation is out - of - date, whether it will be sufficient, whether it needs more arms to make it more effective for them to benefit from money policy in this country. True, I have often pointed out that I do not seem to be used by the Secret Bank on Business Bank, as if it were possible for him to do. But it's one of the guiding factors that I've recently found disturbing, i.e. that Iceland's Savvy Bank is now offering a wax - burgunding party and shows very clear examples from outside the world that people are investing here in centenarians as never before. It must be ringing some bells because it was just before the collapse of 2007. It appeared as a wax business that became unbearable here, and we couldn't stop building.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u12	V.E.G. President. During the last assembly, the highest took place. Social and housing minister to the bill that financial support would be conditioned. The bill will be submitted again to this council. According to the bill, the criteria apply only to those who are employed. It is based on the fact that individuals are motivated by self - help and survival. If an individual is considered to be employed, he or she will go through a certain process based on an individual approach. In the process he/she receives guidance from specialists and experts in consultations with the individual in a plan designed to help the individual take his first steps either in a job market or in other matters. Some of these partners have never gone into the workforce, others not for many years. This is an individualised process in terms of the condition. The bill does not include those who are considered uncooperative, nor do they go through any conditions. Rather, it is helping those who have the ability to work again to become active in society. It is not overregulated that the matter is quite intense, and there are conflicting opinions about it among groups and within groups, but we can see that. ... onthereport ofthelast days. At the end, I would like to mention a particular example, one example of the conditioned financial support and the positive effects it can have. I met a very positive, happy girl in my path. She told me that she was at last at work. She was very happy with life. At last, she would be at work and having social relations. For too long, she was home. She barely went out of the door, she was filled with anxiety. She went through this process that conditioned financial support, received guidance from experts and individuals on how it would be best for her to get back to work markets or to other resources. She was very happy. In this case the company had created jobs for the individuals who went through their process. There are many people in the rural society that this lady lives in that she has taken advantage of these provisions and is happy to live and live again. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u13	A respectable president. I feel like a dog. paritaprevir Þorvarðardóttir Þordóttir to make the matter refugees a subject of publicity. I am completely incomprehensible as to why me and the Icelanders have not begun working to welcome a handsome group of refugees. How many of us in this room have read history and wondered why no one did anything? We've all done it, and it's that kind of time right now. After a year, people will wonder why no one would do anything. We have a chance to do something. Me and the Icelanders live well. We have strong infrastructure. We have a big heart. We are wise, and we want to be active participants in what is happening in the world, and we want to lighten up. That's why I don't understand why we haven't started yet. While 60 million people are on the market around the world, we are wondering: " Do we have enough experts on this project? Or we may wonder that while others are left behind, some people are being brought with some criminals over the sea, and we cannot be accepting them or these. A respectable president. All these people are people like us, and we would do exactly the same thing under the same circumstances if they had been ridin' our world, ruining our homes, and ruining our entire existence, we would also be running with our children in our arms. And what do we do with Icelanders? Well, that's how we thought about it. It won't work any longer, and I'll just wonder. The U.S. Senate to unite in sending a clear message to the government that we want to open our arms and welcome people because pedophiles, slave dealers, and other abusers need no names when taking a group of children and women into custody, they just intervene. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u14	A respectable president. I can say with what. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir that we Icelanders are expected to react, and I trust that the government and we Congress do it the best we can. I was going to talk to you about the airport in Reykjavík because once again we had a report on a flight security in which a point of view falls. A recent report produced by an engineering firm in the capital area has made a significant comment to Icelandic professional pilots. There can be no problem with the airport in Reykjavík, and whether to close a multi-targeted safety path that some might call upset by the fact that reports have been made by the International Professional's Office, which may now know the flying language better than a special practice room in town, a Cooperative Laboratory, or those conducting the Isavia. I think it's time to go to the top. The Minister of the Interior Minister to settle this large and massive matter in one way or another, a case that is in deep opposition to the authorities in Reykjavík and the region, and a number of people in the capital area who want the airport to remain in his image. The overall interests of the collective must be replaced by individual, partner, and company, but most important is that the Minister of the Home Minister gets an independent contact assessment of the airport's safety for hospital flights to close this runway, as more of the city of Reykjavík intends to do. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u15	A respectable president. It's good to be back at the council again, to meet with members of the council and the council. I hope we're going to do some good for the winter, the council will be productive and what we do here, and we can stand by, we can trust what we promise. A respectable president. Friday's News magazine interviewed Björk Vilhelmsdóttir, Councilman and U.S.A., for the weaknesses of social services. That's not quite a new discussion. It has happened before, taking place during the recent winter council on a welfare committee. To prevent all misunderstandings, they have been misunderstandingd by a prime minister on a change in rural social services, financial support conditions, not in any way in the case of a desperate society. The bill is a promise to the local community to set rules on terms of financial support and is a basis for helping people for self - help. The bill is, in fact, about the future good news of those who have disappeared. The Hafnarfjörður community service adopted such rules in cooperation with local employment. There were hundreds of them on social services. By working with the job, more than 100 jobs were created in the countryside, and only three or four people who were in financial assistance had to have three or four conditions. It is important that we help others to self - help them. They're not crowding people with this. We're helping people come out of the dark and see the light. People's weaknesses and society are evil.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u16	A respectable president. There are many things you can say. I agree that we should make it a general rule to have committee meetings open and live and technically it should be relatively simple if there is a will. I agree, too, that we should intervene when it comes to refugees'affairs, but I will discuss them later. But what I wanted to talk about here is similar to what happened. Björk Ásmundur Vilhelmsdóttir, who has been chairman of the welfare board in the largest community, was making a very interesting interview in the Friday News magazine. I encourage everyone to read it yourself and to form an opinion instead of reading what is said about the interview. There I felt that the chairman of a well - being council was primarily saying something that we could call common sense. I think we Icelanders, at least the most, maybe everyone, would like to help those who need help and want to do it as well as possible, but the big thing is that we want to help people out of self-help. That's basic. The head of the Presidency Council reviews that we are in a certain situation and mention, for example. The fact that certain social workers believe that it is human rights if people are around to smoke cannabis instead of encouraging and setting them on track and to work in society. The thing about us is that the chairman of the Council of Health said that during the last term, the last government was composed of changes in laws relevant to these matters, but it had been betrayed. Nothing would have happened during this season. And it would have come to us. I'd like to encourage you. The welfare committee to review these issues. This situation has already been worked on in the United States, and I understand that there is some reasonable agreement on it, and now it is on our side.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u17	A respectable president. I was wondering what to discuss here this morning if I got up at the end of the Senate. There's plenty to take. I was thinking about being totally crazy about the state of society, pouring myself over the government and her officers who hit their chests and saying that the economic situation is so much better than it ever was, and here is doing everything quite great. I was thinking about getting excited about the status of the poor and the older citizens and children, including the children. with ADHD and psychiatric disorders. Why isn't there more money in this? There's plenty to take. I was also wondering quite crazy about the state of refugees in the world. Why aren't we doing something more? Why are we hanging ourselves in some tin shit and details instead of doing something? Like I say, it's enough to take when you want to be really crazy over the situation, but I decided not to. I decided to be positive and discuss what I've done here so many times before, and it's about good and effective communication. Governments are particularly about trust, communication, and consultation that aim to promote the nation's prosperity and happiness. So I'm going to do what I've always done at the beginning of the council ever since I became a senator, challenging and encouraging us senators to set a good example and to have good relations and friendly relations. I have this hope, as always before, that our work will be marked by trust and respect during the coming council and that we have the gift of working together to solve the many challenges we face. We have to face many challenges in spite of the rising of land and economic conditions, and everything is well along. There's a lot to do. This is about priorities in my mind, priorities in behalf of those who need to be in the community, in the health system, in children, in prisoners' affairs, and forever listed. I encourage us to communicate effectively, for that is a key to our success.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u18	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize various criteria for budgeting for 2016. This bill suggests a change in several laws in accordance with the criteria of a bill for budgeting for 2016. The details of the bill are of many ways and both impact on the income and the pay side of the budget. I will now discuss some details of the most important things. First, there are fewer tax counts due to income taxation in individuals. This should first include the changes in income taxation made by the government in the preparation of collective labour agreements in the spring months of this year. The proposal involves a significant change in income taxation in the direction of the individuals as well as the provision of all employees, but particularly between income groups. In this way an individual's income will be given at 600 yous. K. in a month's wages, which are just more than average income, increase by more than 10 of you. K. per month due to the otherwise unchanged income tax change. In this context it is worth reviewing the government's policy declaration of a review of the tax system with a simple consideration, particularly to improve its effectiveness. The changes presented here are fully in line with the declaration of policy, as well as an important entry into the final conversation and in practice, in addition to the steps taken in the same direction at the beginning of 2014. The bill suggests that the number of taxes due to income taxation will be reduced from three to two in two years, along with the change in income limits. In this regard, the provision of individuals'income will increase as the tax load drops. In the first stage of January 1, 2016, the tax rate at the 1 IRS level is reduced from 22.862% to 20.68%, i.e. about 0.18 percentage points. At the same time, the rate of the IRS 2 will be reduced by 1.4 percentage points, from 25.3% to 23.9%. In the second phase, which will be initiated at the beginning of 2017, the tax rate drops to the lower level to 22.5% while the tax level 2, the middle phase, falls out. This means that 3, as it appears today, the top step in a two-stage income tax product will remain the same from today's, 31.8%. In terms of the income limit, the upper level will be reduced from 836 you. K. of 770 you. K. on January 1, 2016, but the lower limit remains unchanged, and in 2017, only one steps will be reached, i.e. Seven hundred you've got. K. per month. It should be noted that in this way the amount of stepwise amounts will then be determined that the remainder will change to the beat at the end of 2015 and 2016 according to the regulations of the income taxes and will be if the odds are considerably higher than those specified here. It is estimated that the above suggestions will reduce the pay of the state budget by 5.5 billion dollars. This year, up to 11 billion times, when the change has been fully implemented from 2017 to 2017, i.e. 5.5 billion a year from the end of the next millennium, and then by the end of the year, it is about 11 billion. I'm just going to review that with the changes I mentioned since 2014, the middle step was reduced from 25.8% down to 25.3% and by the failure of the government during this ideal period, the tax rate or income taxation rate for the money that has so far been at the midpoint from 25.8% income taxation to 22.5%, a 3.3 percentage reduction. Second, I'm going to talk about delinquency of customs. It is suggested that a big step will be taken toward removing tolls over the next two years. This will depend on agricultural products in the customs system, but customs will only affect specific import agrienvironment schemes. The first step will include clothing and shoes and will take place at the beginning of the year next year, but the second step will take on all other industrial products and will begin at the beginning of 2017. These suggestions are in full agreement with the results of the work group represented here at the beginning of the year, and the group was assigned to map the overall re-examination of the customs system with a simple guide. It should also be noted that this adjustment was made in connection with a declaration made by the government in spring by a collective agreement that declared that dressing customs and shoes would be cut down at the end of 2015, in order to increase the provision of households and contribute to the increase in trades in Iceland. There are indications that in an ever - increasing international deal, toll collapse is taking place. In general, tollar has an inhibitory effect on business between countries, and in general, it reduces them. A competition between local and foreign parties is lost, and consumers pay higher prices, as is obvious. For example, it is expected that at the expense of foreign commerce, a local store store will have a positive effect on Icelandic farming. No doubt all the audience know that the store has complained a lot about a bitter competitive situation and is especially referring to customs. Shopping with clothing has been a major blow in recent years, and there has been evidence of the use of consumers that the ever - increasing contribution of domestic commerce is being extended beyond the rocks. We hope to restore the land mines with these changes, thus enriching shops and improving the interests of consumers at home. It is obvious that the demolition of the tolls will affect the small price of the items listed above, but in the overall analysis the overall impact of the change, tollation, will be affected by a reduction in the index value of consumer prices by nearly 1%. Of these, the next year's price effect is estimated to be 0.5%, followed by complete implementation and full effect after 2017 or at the beginning of 2017. This is evident to be greatly improved for family members as well as for others, as is shown in the various examples published on page 24. 27 of the bill we're talking about here. I'm also going to mention here that these changes are directly followed by our changes in the product charge system and by the deduction of public goods and industrial customs, we have reached some of the largest steps to simplify the consumer tax system in Iceland that have been achieved in the high lord's day. The estimated loss of income money due to a decrease in customs is 2.5 billion. in the next year, including a worth tax of more than 5.7 billion when the change will be fully implemented in 2017. This is a direct assessment of the revenue of the bill's proposals. It should be noted, however, that the procedure does not merely adversely affect the value of the state funds as long as it leads to lower prices that increase household resources and, in turn, their consumption. So the net effect of stratospherics on the survival of a government fund should be greatly reduced in the long run, not to mention the economic benefits that result from a number of aspects of the combustion of the jungle of customs. Third, I'd like to talk about rent income from house to house. The bill suggests that the stock market target of a man's rent house will be raised from 30% to 50%. The effective tax burden of rent pay will therefore decrease from 14% to 10%. This change is part of the government's support of a public tenement and is the purpose of contributing to the reduction of rent prices and the increase in rent-infestations for a long time. If the bill is accepted unchanged, the income tax from the landlord will be at 200 you. K. a month's rent less than 8 weeks. K. every month, i.e. Ninety-six o'clock. K. every year. It is hard to assume that the intention to accept is only temporary, not short - term, rent that is considered as job pay and is taxed accordingly. The effects of this change are estimated to be negative by 400 million. K. However, the effects do not appear until the pressure of 2017. This is explained by the fact that renters are subject to taxes with a annual delay, i.e. under the pressures of public pay in 2017, due to income gained in 2016. Fourth, there's credit and alcohol. This bill suggests the transfer of funds from alcohol charge to the level of alcoholic beverages, allowing the sale of alcoholic beverages to shift from the general 24% level of worth tax to its lower level, i.e. 11% at the same time as alcohol consumption increases. The primary purpose of this change is that the equal value of the taxpaying of restaurants will be the same. In this way, their tax divorce should become simpler and more efficient, while the potential benefits of this process should be reduced for management of prices, thus affecting the obligation of worthwhile supplementary taxes. There have been reports over the past few years that men have been making significant adjustments in this subject and making a little run in the books, thus making the state of a considerable amount of money. This change is thought - provoking to make such an approach more difficult. The combined effect of moving will be slightly reduced in terms of government income, but this is a very insignificant reduction. In the long run, earnings of supplementary tax from alcohol and alcohol costs should be increased as a result of improved returns. The price effect is very insignificant, in line with what I have said here. Fifth, I'd like to discuss payment on a rental car. In recent years, the reduction in the rate of purchase of rental cars has been becoming increasingly critical, especially when the article benefits greatly from the great flow of foreign tourists to the country. The prehistory of this incarceration extended right back to the year 2000, and it was its purpose to support the development of the major article in the year 2000. Since then, much water has flowed to the sea and the need for such support has become different and smaller. Especially is this so in the recent years when the number of rental cars have been moved to the country and enjoyed this oscillation. For example, in 2010 the increase was more than 30% compared to the introduced number in the early August of the year, which was reported to be 300 percent more cars this year to August than in 2010. This means that the injury the rental has enjoyed as a result of a reduction in the rate of goods according to a minimum of 327% higher by the end of August 2015 than in 2010. Critically, this system of discriminating has also been identified in the reports of the International Cash Fund and OECD, which have suggested that a tax cutout for rental cars be removed. It is noted that the reduction is unnecessary and violates the principle that the use of automobile taxation rate is holding hands with the amount of carbon dioxide in their emissions. When the reduction warrant is considered to include discrimination in sectoral sectors as well as subjugation to reduce carbon dioxide emissions. Furthermore, it is criticized that the decline is conditional that only a car has to be owned by a rental car for 15 months after the initial registration, after which it can be sold without being paid back. It is believed that with this brief period of possession, taking into account the average age of a car car car car car, there is an incentive for rentals to redirect their eyes to an increasing number of car sales sales competitions in a car market as well as to companies offering to the sheep trades of a car cars. Already a step has been taken to reduce this injury, including at the beginning of this year when maximum support went from 1 billion. K. every car, as far as 750 of you. K. This bill suggests that in two stages, it will be dematched in two stages, i.e. January 1, the next year and January 1st, 2017. During the first phase, the maximum support for each car will be reduced from 750 levels per car. K. of 350. K. as well as a permit for the reduction of goods according to the definition category. The fee, which is a sort of product charge, has come under some criticism and has been pointed out, among other things, that the step of the pay and the amount of money may vary according to the size of the car rent as well as the amount of money to prevent access to the sector. It is also suggested that the minimum period of car maintenance to be reduced will be reduced from 15 months to two years. In the second phase, i.e. As of January 1, 2017, the intention of a product charge will be removed, and this will result in the sale of tax paid by automotive cars in the same way as buying self - use persons from automobiles. The effects of these changes are estimated to be some 600 million. K. the increase in income for next year's state funds and 1.9 billion dollars. In 2017 or 2.5 billion years. with the complete loss of the indiscretion, the effects of increased worth of taxes are included. It is not expected that the operation will have a major impact on the price of domestic consumers and, hence, on the index price of consumer consumers, where customers are living for foreign tourists. Of course, these materials cannot be made up of too much. The fact is, while large numbers of foreign tourists have come to the country, the number of renters has increased greatly. I'd like to mention it at the end of this chapter of my speech that I believe in many ways the system has been successful. We have prospered in making our car fleet over a considerable amount of money; our rentals are an important link in the chain of service that foreign tourists need to enjoy in the country; and we try to make these changes take over time to take into account the viewpoints expressed by the car owners in order to ensure that they need a need for a lead-in period. I expect during a judicial hearing, the car owners will argue that they will need a longer lead-in period and therefore direct it to the Commission to take it all to their careful consideration, but I believe that we have to simplify the system, to reduce the reserves and specials and, rather, to direct our eyes to reduce the general product tax for the general consumer in the country rather than pay it fairly high and have a very great discount for rental. Instead, let us remove the discounting system and focus our eyes on what the goods are for all the public. Six, I'd like to mention the demolition/nums of the value tax on import and the taxable sale of electrical, hydrogen, or linking vehicles. In short, it is assumed that temporary permission to cancel a worthy tax and to include a subsidiary sum of money at a level of import and taxable sales of electricity, hydrogen, or related automobile vehicles would be extended by one year with the same logic that has been used so far. I was going to say only about this point, except that we plan that this will have an impact to reduce the income of the state's funds by 200 million compared to what else would have happened if the deadline had expired, that I believe that we are going to recheck the overall environment of goods, including the product costs on fuel for the cars in the country and return to our discussion of how we can achieve the goals we want to set for ourselves, such as for environmentally friendly cars, like the one I'm calling here. Norwegians have made it their goal to set the target of a certain proportion of electric cars in their vehicle fleet to the point where they want to use discounts and impulse systems, but as a result, they intend to put the cars in the system. We need to discuss what the vehicles are going to offer to finance the transport system in the country, but an increasing number of non-fuels are taking a smaller part in the financing of transport in the country. I feel that I can look at the charges on my car on my own. Is it true that we have less spells on diesel than we do on gasoline? Today, a diesel wastes more than its fuel, but we have recently assumed that it is less contaminated. It may not be quite as simple as it appears at first glance, and it may not be right to focus on the carbon dioxide. When the sauce comes into the picture, it may not be the right reason we have decided to have less spells on diesel. All of this, I would like to examine together with the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of the Home Office and gather the experience from the system we've been living with and to reach the goals we would like to set with changes in the environment. Of course, this needs to be predictable and in good consultation with the articles so that it does not have a negative impact on the market at home. But I think it's time to look at all these things. So we're suggesting about the electric cars that we're maintaining and extending the system for about a year. I will appoint a team to step in on these matters and request the access of the Environment and Internal Affairs for transport. Of a dollar, tax and tax price is suggested for the oil tax, as well as a special mile tax, in general, and special fuel fees, carbon bills, automobile bills -- you hear that this is not a small list, all part of the remuneration system I mentioned before - and the product tax on tobacco goes up by 2.5%, from the next year's rates to the prices of the Seder Bank. By the end of 2013, we made a statement that we would not raise these charges beyond the prices of the National Bank. This increase is a little under the prices of the budget bill, which is 3% and may be said to hold back our fees. It is our efforts to maintain prices as low as possible, and it is clear that the walking of prices puts us in line to see a price effect that reduces the real value of these charges in the next year. The increase will bring total government funds 900 million. K. Child support and interest improvements. The bill contains two changes in child reform laws. On the one hand it is suggested that the reference height be increased by about 3% from that year with a view to maintaining its real value. On the other hand, the proposal is that due to a child's debt against public fees and underdeveloped treatment will be permanently removed, but the source has been disabled since 2009 by preliminary regulations. It is estimated that the expenditures of the state's expenses as a result of child damage will increase by 315 million from what might otherwise have happened. It is also suggested that the temporary increase in growth reforms that had been unchanged by the next year is extended by another year. It is expected that the directive will be implemented for the decision on advance growth reforms and for the pressures of public remuneration in 2016 and, therefore, will remain stable between 2015 and 2016. This is because a review of government housing is being made in various areas, with the goal of harmonizing with the government, including different local species. All of this will possibly affect the growth reform system, and it is therefore reason to extend this provisional principle as we have done in the past few years. I've come to the important but smaller content of the bill. Here I have studied the main and major chapters of the bill and I intend to allow myself to pause a little shorter in other chapters. For the answer, we will extend a transient increase in maximum response. It has been linked to the affairs of the disabled and, while there has not been a final result in financial relations as a result of translocation in that region to the level of government, it is just to extend that rise. In terms of the worth of road transport taxation, there is an overview of the European Commission laws on cost-employment taxes directly related to the changes we have already legalized for the worth of taxation due to human transport. It is suggested that organized travel services of the elderly will be restricted to due tax obligations in accordance with the other ways in which the law is given. In accordance with local laws, public transportation, i.e. Steady trips to a specific route within the country according to a published plan, no matter what land, air, uterus, or organized tourism of disabled people, and the organized transfer of schoolchildren; all of this is an exception to a valuable tax from January 1, 2016. The bill also suggests that the ruling authority in the issues of clock charges will be moved from the Ministry to the head tax committee. Likewise, there will be minor adjustments. The staff accounts are in the bill, but it is suggested that we submit to a law on insurance that states that employment remuneration does not get income from a standard insurance fee in 2016. Based on the current insurance market, 0.13% share would include 1.4 billion dollars. a donation from a trust fund a year. The provision here I am here to be stated has been in effect prior to 2013◯2015. Instead of falling the provisional principle, the funds are expected to receive 650 billion. K. contributions in 2016 according to the agreed agreement. We have a fee for the financial expenses of the F.O.B. This is in accordance with the laws on cost of public surveillance of financial activity. Remuneration of expenses for the agent's business in debt. We suggest that the proportion of stress stocks from 0.0148% to 0.00491%, which is intended for the management of a credit agent. In view of the total number of 157.2 million. K. This is in line with the Agency's management plan, which assumes that its scope will be funded by this. The Agency's programme assumes that this contribution, together with a meeting head position from the previous year, should be subject to the scope. Federal insurance is listed on the bill. In 2016 and this year, it is expected to be the same amount of non-profit income-employment income and household support that will be extended on temporary regulations. Free income is now 1,315.200. equivalent to 109,600K. per month. If this does not extend, there will be a very significant decline in the cost of voluntary biofuels. The next year's budget of the elderly is proposed to increase by about 3%, according to Haust's estimate of inflation between annual conventions for the year preceding the budget. That's the price of 10,4K. each currency during the pressures of public pay next year because of this year. It is estimated that the increase in the State budget will be added to 55 million; however, the budget is expected to provide an equal rise in budgets due to changes in prices so that the effects of these measures on the financial recovery of the state will be zero. We've got a couple of other guys. I have to go over history fast because of the time. In accordance with a special agreement by the State and the National Church, there is an increase of 72.7 billion. K. Similarly, the contribution of the State Fund to the Christian Fund is reduced. In terms of the cost of nursing and the cost of household involvement, there is the expected to be a temporary improvement in the provision of a new set of laws on the elderly in order to prevent an increase in the expense of the household's income income. I'll allow me to refer to the bill regarding the change in application fees. The law's contribution to the parishes of the Church and other religions usually changes according to the estimated change in the average income taxation product of individuals 16 years of age and older. However, today, as with the budget of the past few years, with a change in parish fees, it is assumed that a budget will be fixed in accordance with the State Department's plan to withdraw some of the requirements for religious observance and collections in previous years. I have to run here fast over the story and not stay long at the tourism fund, which has been very free of extra money, so I don't get extra money in the bill for the budget we've recently discussed. [[The president calls.]] This bill is merely a continuation requirement of the previous years. I'm going to mention it right at the end of the line that the arrangements made in this bill assume that the result of the state's budget will be reduced by about 8 billion dollars. which would have been unchanged. There are 8 billion people who go to a good business in the community in the large majority of the household's provisions.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u19	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the story. There's no new news that we partners don't agree with the way these taxes are treated and think they should bring the lowest paid and the lowest member of society better than we can see. The minister has often said that what these people pay cannot be lowered because they pay no taxes. I think all normal people make no distinction whether they pay taxes or an answer, I think that maybe there are mostly people in the Ministry of finance who make the distinction but not ordinary people. So I would like to ask: Has the minister not thought of changing his answer, or recording another, so they could meet these people in what they pay in public fees? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u20	Mr. President. It is true here that I have called attention to the fact that once financial relations between state and rural society have been established, the government is not getting anything in the income tax system until the pay is over 230 you. K. But I agree fully with it. A senator says that those who pay local taxes do not make a complete difference as to whether their taxes will end up in a country fund where they have a home estate or in the state. This is what I've wanted to make it clear to people that if the government went further in reducing income taxes in the lowest stages, it would mean more money to the countryside. That would be what would happen at the end of the day. Of course, we can raise the market, but that is a very costly operation. I'm just going to say that about the emphasis displayed on this bill that they're in good shape with the results of the collective agreements, where it was just emphasised on raising the lowest paid people most. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This change in income tax was then shut down by meeting the average earners.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u21	Now, people who are on insurance insurance benefits have to pay public fees. I think it's more technical to say that there's a cost, that's what counts. My opinion is that it should be our goal to make up for the people who are on insurance benefits, and that's all they can get, I just don't think that it's important, a respectable president, if the government gets something to do with it at 230 you. K. Whether or not. It's up to us to change this. If we want to do good to the lowly, we can do so. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he has figures over what pay raises to doctors, nurses, to BHM, per year. In this connection, I'd like to aim to the highest level. The government is removing temporary taxes to 25 billion a year. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u22	Mr. President. The pay and prices business is rising by 30 billion per year in the budget, but there are, of course, more insurmountable groups. A senator mentions. As for the interaction of the income tax system and the response, I have my indications and include in the discussion that the willingness of people to further up the default market tax taxes is actually a decision, because of the way the system is combined, that the state would pay a higher percentage of the taxpayers to the rural community. We would then be making a decision that the State would pay the answer to a larger group. I have to say, just as it is, there are some questions that raise us about the transvestite system. This may be the best conclusion to improve the implementation and provision of this group, but it's fine if you realize that you don't see any of this money, it's the local community. [[The president calls.]] This would be in nature the decision to take in part of the response to these taxpayers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u23	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the story. I'd like to ask a few questions about what we're discussing here, on the other hand, on the side and on the other hand, under the law. This is expected for a substantial amount of employment investment over the next year, 2015 and 2016, and is then assumed to fall. I've thought about it and I'd love to hear a vision. Ministers on whether the instruments of employment investment are not too narrow because when asked for what is primarily involved in employment investment programmes, major projects such as Bakka and Helgaívík are not necessarily such as small investments as in tourism. There's one thing I'd like to hear the highest vision. The minister on it. Based on projections, I'd like to ask the highest level of employment investment after 2016. Minister: In view of the fact that public investment is relatively low in the coming years in the historical context, is there a plan to add something to 2019, an average of 1.5%, is it not advisable to use the means and make significant investments when we see that employment investment is falling? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u24	Mr. President. I agree that the public investment level has been very low. We, in fact, specifically criticized it during the last terms of the State's investment. Now the commercial investment has taken over considerably and is achieving a long - term average, at least looking back to 1980, but this does not mean that we have a low investment level in the state. What we may be most concerned about is that we are not being careful about the interior. I think it might be a good idea to take advantage of the opportunity if there's enough room to improve there considerably over the years, but we can't forget that we're keeping the ratio of one of the longest consecutive growths that we've ever lived so by holding a proportion of land production that we're always worth doing more and more. In other words, that is just the opposite. I haven't examined the question, whether it's defined too narrow, but it's absolutely true that it must have to look at the investment of more parties than just big projects. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u25	Mr. President. I think there's reason to consider how we make an investment, because perhaps it takes some part of a professional policy as it has been. However, we do know that job structure and employment policy are changing, so I think it's interesting to consider at least how these things are measured. I'm glad to hear it. One minister says that there may be reason to add public investment. We can see that there is a greater need. I mention, for example. Transportation. We see a much larger transport program being proclaimed in terms of the budget. The need, for example, remains great, and although domestic production grows, the results are still low in historical context. The other question I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers on the list are the tolls, the house-to-house dresser. In view of the criticism shown here in the last winter, when we discussed a reduction in certain products in terms of values taxation and increase in others - the reports we have had in the way that they dropped and the rise have yielded to the prices, the price-seizing of independent persons comes first, since the public has not personally been aware of how this has turned out - there is no reason for the public to be more aware of the prices of the government's decision at any particular time? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u26	Mr. President. First, just back to your investment so that it becomes clear. In the years that follow, there are several major projects. They are a major factor in the growth of the years to come. That is exactly what we need to ask ourselves when it comes to how we are administering our public investment. These are valid questions and speculations. I'm open to any potential agreement on state-of-the-art control. I believe that the reduction in goods has been shown to have gradually paid off to lower prices and has also prevented the need to raise. I've noticed that some surveys have shown that it hasn't happened yet, but then I'm pointing out that it's not normal for this to happen on the first day. In part, this occurred before the price reduction, and there is a need to be careful about it in tests. [[The president calls.]] Those who claim that this will not work out are saying that the application will be longer. [[The president calls.]] On the contrary, I see no reason why demolition of consumer taxes will lead to greater pressures in shops. [[The president calls.]] But this needs to be monitored.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u27	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prehistoric finance minister in this income supply section of the budget. IV. chapter 1 of the bill discusses the change in customs, where customs are being cut off on a variety of products and products, while validating the parts of the product on January 1, 2017. Tells you the highest. Secretary of finance is not normal to finish this case, since there is really little left, that's Taiwan's product, that's U.S. product, that's Japanese goods? One of these electronic devices is up to a vacation store because the electronic devices from Europe have no toll, a vacation deal in China, no toll. [[The president calls.]] There's very little left. Is it not proper to take this step to the end?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u28	Mr. President. We used that approach when we assembled this suggestion to look at clothes and shoes first, and we saw that about half the size of customs. Then we took all the other tolls and took the second step. I will not comment on that if at a closer visit at the council see a group of goods that would just as well be available in time. One of the things we were looking at was the price effect, to let it come even over the period. Some criticize us for doing this when inflation is only growing, but I point to the fact that the pace of the government, when all is taken together, is relatively small compared with what is going on in the labour market. It seems to me that in the country of 2015 and 2016, there'll be a total pay raise by perhaps 100 billion, but we're here talking about some action that may be revealed at 5. So the answer is that in the customs, and I'm talking about them, I feel that this can be considered well, and I don't comment on it if we see a reason to turn in the value of some sort of product between the ages if we otherwise reach our goals. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u29	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of finance answered. But I don't think of it as prize-presidents, I consider it a healthy environment for customs and goods - product expenditures were 45 years old and were supposed to be intermediate when Iceland went to EFTA. Tolllar is an old phenomenon to build business barriers. That time is over, and I believe that it is normal to finish the process and that income fund is made up of consumer taxes, income taxes, services, and such tolls, and the discrimination between business countries should be historyd. As a member of the Economic and Business Committee, this will be watched from that angle, and it's a natural question of what other members of Congress do. I've finished my speaking, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u30	Mr. President. We agree completely on the aim of this which is to remove the consumer taxes, the simple business environment and open to a better, free business environment in Iceland. I can say that these steps were best taken all at once, but we were trying to achieve some goals at the same time. We were looking to the total supply of state funds, we were looking at the state of the economy above. However, only 12 months have passed since the first step is taken until the second step is under way. I reiterate what I said earlier in my speech, and I think it would be good to take part of these groups and shift them between the validation laws.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u31	Mr. President. Everything has a time. This excellent bill has many emphasises that I can totally agree with, but it depends on the environment each time if it is advisable to attack. V.E.G. The secretary of finance is naturally happy that it proclaims an 8 billion tax reduction, somewhere in the range of 8 billion, as if it were self - defeating, i.e. decrease of income taxation. I'll ask them the highest. Secretary of finance: Does he feel that it is entirely advisable to do so in the present - day situation? We know that the economy is increasing tension. Next year, four major projects will be started, and I imagine that the late bat will be all over the next year just keeping the lid on a boiling pot, which, of course, he does with the old methods we know. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Does he not feel that he is adding to the firewood under this pot? I point out that the Navy has spoken in such a way that it is dangerous to go to income taxation in such a situation, as many were surprised. [[The president calls.]] The executive director of the Association of Professional Affairs warned you not to do that. I don't feel like there's any heat in the same direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u32	Mr. President. First, I'd like to remind you that it was after the government introduced its plans for the reduction of income tax in steps as a finish-up conversation in the public market. It was already their respondents had received our declaration in this regard that they thought they could convince their backland that it had now come to a house that could be reached in this round. This was an important entry in closing the collective agreements earlier this year, especially because in this cycle the increase was the largest to the lower pay groups than the tax changes are given by the intermediate groups. The subject is not much. It is initially divided over two years, and if we compare it with the high pay rates negotiated over the three - year period we discuss here, it is relatively minor. [[The president calls.]] But they are important. I traced it in my case earlier to the extent to which typical groups would grow. [[The president calls.]] You must ask yourself, finally, " When was the time for a reduction in taxation, since recently there was the right time to raise taxes according to some doctrine? ' [[The president calls.]] Suddenly it's too late to turn them down. When was the time to lower them?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u33	Mr. President. I'm surprised to find out. With regard to the financial affairs of the State, the doctrine of the State has to be conducted in an extreme way. I've always counted the highest. Secretary of finance is very careful and in itself does not intend to change my opinion now, not immediately at least. But the highest. The secretary of finance naturally announces that he intends to live up to what was in the government's cooperative declaration. Wasn't it a drop in income taxation of 3.3%, something like that, when it comes to the end of the season? Well, there's a lot of wood into the heat we're going into the economy. Since mid - 2010, economic growth has been continuous since the year 2010, with virtually complete success as a result of what was drawn up by man. It is quite clear that this is going to be an enormous expansion, and it is important that the Navy and the government move in the same direction. If this is so, the Federal Bank and Business Association agree, which is extremely rare, that this may not be the time to live up to these statements. The secretary of finance a little bit of a fin? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u34	Mr. President. I believe that the job drivers were primarily arguing that there was room to cut down the insurance fee. Some feel that we should have used the space to reduce the insurance money rather than stress the decrease in income tax. But to me it is quite clear that at this time it is going to be a common work assignment for the labour market and the government to improve the average wage in the country, and this is part of that work. This is an important input that eases the burden of homes, creates the right motivation, makes the tax system more reasonable, reduces the percentage of taxes on the intermediate workers as a dog. During the last term, a senator increased the tax. [[Up front.]] Those who oppose these taxes now have to answer whether they will ever create circumstances to lower taxes or whether they think it's proper for people to be stuck with the rise that came in the wake.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u35	Mr. President. There is a precipitating of the government's tax policy, as reflected in this document, i.e. continuation of the tax policy we've seen in discussions about budgets, last and last, fundamental analyses of how to distribute the stocks and basic analyses of how to change the quality. He's showing up here in a conversation. A fundamental difference is whether we want to have a step - apart tax system or a flat tax system, a basic analysis of whether we want the tax system to be used directly as an equal instrument, and basic analyses of how far to go in these issues as well. So that you might take the biggest news of this bandorm, of course, you are expected to reduce the paces of the tax system to two, not three. There's certainly a step on that way, like the highest. A minister has talked about the change in the system, but it is also a step in extorting the system, reducing the equation effect of the tax system. For example, there are other factors that the present government has managed to pull out and reduce an equation effect, and it is enough to mention the decision not to extend the wealth tax. Granted, this ancient political differences have been changing widely, but international discussions have been changing greatly on these issues. I took advantage of the opportunity in my talk about the budget bill and will do it again to discuss this. For example, we see such institutions as OECD - an institution that would be called very radical when it comes to economic matters, late to be called a communal institution - sent out in a December 2014 report in which governments of OECD countries are encouraged to make direct changes in their tax systems in order to increase the equation. This is logical - and at the top - of - the - moment. Ministers have discussed this before - not to be just equal in themselves, i.e. that it is important to balance the market in each country, but to show data and examples in any way that the prosperity of the countries in which there is much greater than the others is. The government's supporters might now answer that there is already a large equation in Iceland, and it is true that significant progress has been made, especially in recovering income. Still, we have the situation that when the time comes for wealth to be divided, there has been an ever - increasing increase in the situation here. We have numbers from this year that show us that the richest 1% of the taxpayers on 25% of the total wealth. If we take the richest 10%, they have almost 75% total wealth in Iceland. Then we have large groups with less than nothing, i.e. We owe more than they have. This is inconformable, and there is another factor that we need to listen to, and now we have a global discussion, that those who have most of their wealth also have the greatest opportunity to increase that wealth. There are, of course, ways to combat such indiscretions and one of these is to use the tax system to the equation, such as the use of income and taxes, such as the wealth tax. There is fundamental differences, not only in Icelandic politics, but also in other parts of the world, but I am quite surprised that the Icelandic government does not listen more when agencies like OECD offer such guidelines. That's what we're seeing in other parts of Europe and in Western countries that these issues are being discussed with a much greater deal. It is taking place, as I say: Lately remembered economists refer to the radical left say that it is not just the tax system that has to be used in the EU; it needs to be applied between the countries. We see that capital travel between countries and that opens every door - it seems that the quest in this world is in some way more free than the people as we see at the moment - and therefore, cooperation is needed to counteract these wrongs, i.e. If the Western countries want to maintain their place as communities, where there is a great equation and where prosperity is high. This is why I hereby declare my opposition to reduce the pace of the tax system. In addition, we might ask, " Is it wise to attack taxes immediately? ' Hv. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's anstir became involved only with the discussion that was behind it. Clearly, while tax returns, we also need to realize that in 2008, some tax collectors fell asleep. Fortunately, they are now waking up because they are looking at a better time in economic and financial matters. But I don't think that it's the time to go into taxes, that's not what I think. In itself, there is a political controversy over how a community we want to run. I asked the highest. Minister earlier on how the prices had paid off. Where the highest. A minister spent quite a bit of time discussing customs in his speech as a considerable dresser improvement for the common people, I think that it is now that if the government decides at any given time to engage in action, whether it is tax detriment, a worthwhile taxation change, tollation with the objective, as it was said, that there should be compensation for the public, it must also be the responsibility of the government to watch that these reforms pay themselves. It is true what was said in the case of the highest. Minister, it was a bit difficult to measure how the last worth-change in the prices, but it is also because of the fact that these changes were attacked at annual conventions, which were criticized considerably at the time, it would be a difficult time to measure, in times of sale, and things that would also have a direct impact on prices. Of course, if we are taking advantage of this as evidence in a discussion about changing taxes, customs, and so forth, the government needs to keep an active control on it. I don't feel responsible for the consumers or the union movement that handles prices, so we need to figure it out, and we need to get a pretty precise definition of whether or not the changes that are being elected here in this room have been successful. This has to do with decision-making in general here at the council. This is often a matter of making decisions with some viewpoint that everyone can say is just a little noble and entitled, but then nothing is followed. There is no follow - up on whether our goals have been met. I think it's important. Although this may not be a basic political issue, it's about Generalis's tactics, how we work, what we do, how we follow our decisions. It is not enough to make any decisions here, whether it is the more part or anyone making those decisions, and then to say, "It must come. ' There is no methodology to work on. I made an official investment just a subject of the past. I'm concerned about how low it is in historical context, especially in view of the fact that the current budget - although it has made investments in the fields of research and innovations that I am celebrating, we will see to it that this extremely thin transport program, which is more than already the case. The Minister of Ministers set it up in spring, and by no means meets the change in the current budget of the environment and transport committee, let alone the changes in the subsidies of the sector that were added. It's a case that's discussed all over the country. It's about public investments. I reiterate that I think that when it comes to public investments that appear in the long - term schedule of which these bills are based, all they need is a more ambitious future vision. A more ambitious view of the future, as we look up on the wood that has had to be saved in recent years, where there has been no room to add to the interior, there needs to be some improvement. In view of what I mentioned earlier with my job investment, I wondered a little bit about it, and I specifically asked about it at a meeting of the Economic Committee yesterday as to what this vast business investment really meant. Then these major committees were called. We see a huge business investment in the tourism industry today, that is enough to mention all the hotel buildings being built, not just in the capital area, but in many parts of the country. But it also requires improvement, and it may have to be simply a review of how government capitalizes - the highest government. Industrial and commercial ministers have noted that protests have not been made against all the projects applied for the travel sector. Do we not need to wonder, then, if this is really the right way to build up infrastructure for tourism, in view of the great need we see in many parts of the earth? I think I know what. Congress officials, such as the one listed here, used their vacation to travel through the country and take the position at popular tourist attractions. It is clear that there is a need for internalinvestment, and I don't feel that the form can be applied to say that it will not be added to the tourist budget, especially when we're watching this low government investment. I wondered a few things when we looked at the IRS, so I'll come back to her, which I'm gonna show up here. It is shown that the system changes will specifically affect the intermediate groups and the effect will be most at the edge of the upper level or at 700 levels. K. in a month, but it is noted that the average wage paid for individuals is about 600 of you. K. per month. It's a medium income. If we took a median of income and put it together, we'd probably be considerably lower. The big question I'm following, after reviewing the budget bill on the other hand and on this income video, is the situation in our community. Today, for example, individual partners living in agreements with the State are trying to maintain a later meeting and remind themselves of them, wanting to get compensation comparable to those under law made by a court of law. There is a deep disagreement in the community about how we can define some basic progress. We have often discussed this in the context of a conversation about dresser matters, to form elsewhere in the north, to be much less upset, that there is much more agreement between parties on how to behave a dresser. Of course, this is directly linked to the way we control our economic and financial resources. We see here that greater inflation is expected to occur than is expected in the Western European Bank. We're going to report a measure of concern about the expansion, the effects of the tax doctors on thawing, and then we'll discuss how this is going to work out for the individual. But what we need to be happy about, before we can settle down on how to complete a bargain, is that we'll be happy about what we feel is acceptable to survive in the community. I think maybe it's the difference between our community and the North countries we so easily compare with, that we have a fixed strategist, a public theme, and then we're elected, whether we've been using our noses to older citizens, or the lowest paid groups, which are far away from these policy-making criteria. If we look at the situation and look at these straddlers, they're certainly measuring the cost of living, and then people watch the salary, and that's a completely different reality. The stability we wish for ourselves, i.e. that the income worm, that the budget reflects a measure of stability, low inflation, that we see predictions for the future because we have seen what is going to happen in the nation's economic situation -- I think we will not achieve it until we reach any agreement on what we call a basic move in this country and that the ideals of people are in any agreement with it. That is a thought - provoking point. I think this is the big thing, what the public asks us politicians about when we say we're discussing budgets; we're talking about growth and we're talking about money, that's what people are asking about. Why is it that the benefits of the land do not depend on the cost of living? I think it's a solution for us in political affairs, how we can settle for some basic development, and how to run the economy in a constant way that we don't have to look up at another winter like the one we had last year, where much went on in the nation's affairs. If we want to reach a place that has been like that of other northern countries, as many have said here, I think this is the first step.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u36	Mr. President. But as soon as I'm in favor of reducing income taxes when the government's budget can afford it and the environment is right, I've already said that I don't think it's right to attack the income tax reduction of up to 8 billion on this bill, that was 5 billion a year, and at the highest rate. The secretary of finance declares that when this election period fails, he will have dropped income taxes by 3.3%. The reason, of course, for my position, is that it seems to me that in the coming years there will be high temperatures. Then I feel that if I believe that I am relatively relaxed, although the government is not planning on a major project under these circumstances, it is difficult for me to believe that I am a relatively relaxed person. I notice that several of my associates in this hall claim to the government for not putting enough money into such projects as transportation and road construction. I believe, under these circumstances, it is wise for the government to hold back and rather wait to engage in extensive transport until the economy is relaxed. Hv. A senator has rightly pointed out, at least according to the measurements presented in the bill we address here, that it will minimisely, predicted, from an investment of the economy in two to three years. It would seem that this would be the time for the Kingdom to produce various projects. I'm asking why. A senator may know if she agrees with me on this. Are we not at this point now that we should both be skeptical about much taxes and doubt that the government should carry out a great deal of business?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u37	Mr. President. Yes, but what I'm most concerned about, and that concern I built up here earlier, is that it is not expected that a great deal will be made in public projects as economic investment declines. As I mentioned earlier, the need is enormously urgent, but in the economic presidents on which the bill is based, it is assumed that a substantial job investment in 2015 and 2016 will fall down 2017, but a special injection in public will not be expected until first 2019. As I went over to very short, the need is enormously urgent, e.g. In transportation, you will mention one example that has raised a particular need for maintenance; therefore, you will realize when you travel through the country and take the position on the roads of the country. For example, there I think it would be wise to expect an increase in public investment of 2017 and 2018. In terms of the tax reductions, I think it's a two-way thing. First, it's the system modification, which I'm against. I don't agree to reduce the pace of the tax system, I think it reduces the tax recovery rate and I don't think we can afford to take more steps to evict the tax system. I don't think the current government is listening to OECD's advice on changing tax systems. For the amount of taxes, i.e. Whether to lower taxes regardless of our system change, I feel that we need to listen when we see the sign. For example, I mentioned the inflation leaders of the bill, and I feel that we should listen to what some people say may be a very difficult time to make taxes. I don't think it's time, in view of what we're seeing in tax collections now, that institutions are just waking up after a crash. We should give them time to be even more effective in achieving a balance in the economy.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u38	Mr. President. Right away. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller was the minister of transportation, and much further transportation and implementation was under way than ever before in Iceland, and I'm not sure that there will ever be a climax. It wasn't just because of what it was. A senator was lonely about such projects and amateurs but because the government was fighting behind and behind to make investments, make investments, make jobs, and therefore make significant barriers. The situation today is that unemployment is most likely to fall to 4%; it will not be dropped to 2.7◯3% next year; it is what we see today as the near balance in society. This ratio of society is almost always in the process of changing jobs. In the past, when I was much younger, we believed that there was a 1561.5% balance at work, but with such a complex community, I believe this has gone up. In effect, I'm saying that we are well on our way to stamp out unemployment, so it's not the same need that the government is doing a direct job operation as we did. Of course, we're right next to it. A senator's work is urgent, and especially so. But I don't think it's wrong for the government to hold back, but I agree with that. A senator said that it would be wise to draw up such projects when it is clear that investments in the workplace will rather diminish. As far as the tax system is concerned, I agree with the senator on that. It is interesting to count together the figures that are being reduced, 5 billion a year, 8 billion now, 5 billion to customs. What's the big deal? The amount of altitude. paritaprevir A God - Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson said here yesterday it was necessary to improve the interests of the elderly and the poor in order to match the minimum wage.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u39	Mr. President. It has been noted, and this has been repeated in discussions about government and economics, that the current government chose to give up a number of revenues. It's not just the tax changes that go by. paritaprevir Össur's son's Skarphéðinsson mentioned earlier, I mentioned the wealth tax. We can name the energy tax, and of course we can name the fishing fees. After all, it is expected to be on a quarter of a quarter of a billion dollars, which men have given up since the start of the current government, which I would have thought would have had the power to reduce debt and to build things up. Because of what? A senator here specifically mentions the position of a desperate and elderly citizen, and I agree that I think it all smells like what I covered at the end of my talk. In the community, peace is lacking on the basis of progress. We are actually offering a ground-to-wall advance to those groups that are far below our standards, i.e. Governments, issue as a straddler. I have pointed out that all members of Congress can calculate what their family needs to survive without housing. If the situation is the same, most people will not be able to obtain the income needed to survive on that front. We live in a reality where we have this as government policy, and on the other hand, we have some quite different numbers. This, of course, is the basis for the disagreement in our community, and that is what we need to be happy about in order for us to continue here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u40	President. It's certainly a pleasure for all of us, I think, how much growth is in the economy. The data and explanations we have received in the presentation of the budget and the bill we are discussing show that all plans are changing and that they are all changing. We'll still remember that they've changed the other way, so it's got to be a lot of joy for all of us. I am not, as those who listen to the discussion have said, alone, of warning not to walk slowly through the door of joy. In such a situation, we Icelanders and I have not been able to figure our feet out. It sometimes sounds like the highest. Secretary of finance that the main danger in this is - and is happening in the economy - is that there will be over-exploitation and there will be an increase in vaccination, and this includes too much pay in the country or too much increase. I don't agree with you at all. I think our biggest problem is, in fact, how low our wages are in this country, especially the lowest and the cost of being there is a great deal. Much of the cake goes to the big companies, the big ones I'm going to allow myself to call so, and too small a part goes to the pay people, and there's not enough to support the little companies. This condition requires system modification. We need to change how we divide the good things of the land between those who have and those who work and accept a reward. Hv. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, did well in the way economists the world over point out that the bread - crumbling theory, which was very popular in years earlier, is not working. That is why we need to respond. We're a small country and we're a small economy and we're supposed to be able to do it more easily, maybe easier than a lot of others, because our ship will be turned sooner than big ships. If we don't, Mr. Honorable President, we may be at risk that young people just want to spend their summer vacation at home and live elsewhere and raise their children in other countries where conditions are better. This is the great challenge of politics today and over the next few years, in my opinion. I'm going to go for a few things on the bill because things are done there, and I'm not going to do anything but skim over a few things. In comments to the bill, by permission of the President, we say: There will be a three-to-two-year decrease in income tax score as well as the change in income limits. This will reduce the tax load and increase individual resources. A respectable president. I'm against the reduction in tax levels because it reduces the balance of the tax system I think is good and I think it's necessary. I rejoiced when that arrangement was arranged, and I am sorry that it was being taken away. It is said that step - by - step tax is inadvisable. I understand that that means, or they mean, that he doesn't get well enough because people try to move around tax steps, subtract taxes so that they don't get to a higher level, and so on. We will need to make such preparations and direct specific measures to prevent tax fraud. I'd like to switch between incorruption of taxes and low taxes or one tax step that has less chance of leveling income in the country than the first. We're always changing things. We do that when shopping, letting money and instead getting goods. I simply appreciate it more, i.e. the balance role of a step-traveled tax system, but the more efficient tax system that humans call it. It is suggested that from 30% to 50%, the fiscal target of a person's rent of housing be increased from 30% to 50%.• I think our group members' proposal for rent income from one apartment that is rented out worked better, but this may as well be. Now, I'd like to point out the suggestion of an equal who I think would do better. Then the bill says: Agricultural products and certain foods will be dropped in two steps. It may be a joy, though, that we do not take taxes off clothing, but these are really not a lot of money. Based on what my children tell me, which is actually adults, the price of clothing in this country and abroad is so much different that I don't think they're going to blame for these customs. I'm afraid the problem isn't quite there, I'm afraid that the soiling of the products in this country is abnormally high. I'm afraid this decrease will not return to consumers. I don't like state prices. On the other hand, I think it was an example of jeans somewhere in the bill - not a lot of money. Besides, I think that there will also be consideration when the decline in customs takes effect. I heard one of those points talking about it on the radio the other day, he strongly objected that it would be set up at the end of the year because of the start of the sale that would be difficult to make. Of course, those who work for the government say that it should be the year, since such changes are impossible in April or May. But I'm not so sure. We need to remember that such changes are not necessarily put on the schedule at the time when it will be most difficult to determine whether they will turn to consumers or not. The bill represents changes in the pressures of the product fees of a rental car that will be carried out in two stages. I would have thought that would happen in one phase. That sector is perfectly capable of doing so. V.E.G. A minister warned that the commissionees would come and tell them that they could not be made out of the so - called strength. I have seldom associated with those who run a business with someone, and I agree to lose that kind of strength. So I think this should only happen in one phase. Furthermore, I would like to welcome what was presented in the minister's speech that for a long time, he would prefer to reduce all the products in the country. I think it's closer to doing it, right away, leaving the ideas of doing it in two ways. Then I'd just like to mention the extension of the law on insurance that pays how much money to get into the remuneration fund. This was a lot of talk last year because it's money that would make it possible for those who are not in the business world to enjoy the quality of their operating income as others do. Notes show that an agreement has been made during the year to pay 650 billion. K. directly from the budget. There is hardly half of what others should have gone to the fund. If this agreement is sufficient to satisfy the need, it's as good as it is, but I'm going to pay particular attention to it on the committee, because it is very important not to leave this group behind. I'd like to end up with a little insurance policy like that. This is when taxes in the country are most naturally affected by individuals. You know, people pay the prize tax, that's where you make most of the money. Next is the income tax of individuals. People pay tolls, and most of the country's taxes affect the homes of the country. The insurance bill, however, is the largest tax base of the enterprises and the current government - I have, in fact, wondered about it all this terms, this is the third time I'm surprised by it, that the government will reduce this tax to its companies no more than it really does. The amount of insurance paid depends on a lucrative enterprise, an investment in which it is relatively small. That's why pushing into that business is important. I'm going to say one thing in an escape because we've been talking about this lately that tourism has become the third pillar under the industry in the country. Now it has become so that a number of services, which are then the knowledge industry, are in two - letter numbers when it comes to the export of the people, and it is the very ones that will profit from the reduction of insurance costs, it would be best for them, and these are the very companies that we need to promote and promote in this country. It's also because these are the companies that pay the highest wage, where college graduates get jobs. There is another factor in the data of the bill, and it is said that the unemployment of academics in the country reduces the unemployment of the country. The land's unemployment rate has been greatly reduced, but the unemployment rate in college has been lower, and it looks bad. It's big companies, every name they call, at least under the insurance bill, if you don't mind me saying it like that, i.e. That their investment is so great that insurance costs do not weigh as much as the small companies do. And once again, they are on the move. It's the fishing industry, it's the supermarket, it's the industry, it's the power company. Unfortunately, a respected president, the present government, helps and supports those who are large and strong but who care less about those who are small and weak. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u41	Mr. President. I'm just gonna take a quick look at what happened. A senator that I had said that I thought my salary would increase too much or that some had gone up too much. What I'm pointing out in this discussion is that outside limits are on what we can do to raise our salary at any given time without inducing inflation and thus a higher level of growth. It is simply economic facts that are behind the general increase in pay, gradually reducing the value of the currency. We have a long history, decades of judging that we have increased pay beyond what the production capacity is growing, and as a result, our history is marked by the exchange of pay and prices, as it has become famous. What I've been pointing out lately is that recent types of collective agreements are surely putting a lot of pressure on the start of this chain reaction. I think there's a way to handle that. It depends on how to play the next cycle in this, whether or not you're going to be tested on grounds, etc. But all of this leads to the conclusion that we need to rethink the work model in Iceland, come to a better conclusion about how we're working on the results of collective agreements, and this is ultimately about raising the pay. To do better, to let the power of money grow rather than just the salary and the dollar on the salary card, but the power of money itself. So I think that's exactly what I think. A senator's need to find ways to increase his salary; he just needs to be real increases, not temporary, when inflation becomes clear. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u42	A respectable president. What I'm saying is that the companies in this country can't go on forever with the raises they negotiate into the prices. They have to adjust their business, it's their job to manipulate businesses, to increase their production. It is not the remuneration rate to blame that if you get a higher salary, you turn it into the prices and then raise the pay for yourself, some people who run a few million companies a month, but then if you pay on a box-based desk that puts you on a higher salary, it would all go down into the price. The management board of Icelandic companies is to travel the IKEA way, they are to travel the IKEA way and say, "We've had enough now, we can lower the prices. The pay in IKEA increased as well as elsewhere. That's what I'm saying, it takes a system change, there needs to be a change in the thinking of those who run companies in Iceland and they need to understand that to have good employees, good work, then a good salary is needed. Those in charge of the State also need to know that they have to pay their employees a good salary and not always cut off taxes on the wealthy or the developers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u43	Mr. President. Yeah, I agree that it's important that the firms look for all the ways to get into position to pay a higher salary, that's basically that there's an active competition for staff and a good price in the country, a lower price, more production, but in the end, I think it's going to be a cooperation project. For example, there must be a good basis for cooperation between employers and the employee movement to achieve such objectives and governments here, the Parliament, the government, in cooperation with these parties, to create the right motivation, so that articles in which the production is more fruitful in the country will become available. I'm going to allow myself to call attention to an illustration on page 18. 32 A previous year, the financial bill, which we are not discussing today, showed how the pay cost of a production unit has developed in Iceland over the past few years. It is particularly interesting to see that ten years in advance, but the picture goes back to 1999. It shows that the cost of paying has precisely increased far beyond this cost of each produced unit in Iceland, far beyond what has happened elsewhere, which is the main reason, as I look at things, at higher prices here and thus higher levels of growth. It is combined with the nations in economic difficulties that there has generally been a higher proportion of increase in pay compared to production increase than in countries where there is greater stability and costs of money have been more stable. For example, I refer to Germany. This doesn't change the fact that I can say the word. There's a senator who doesn't have the right to be free of business, and he just goes back to the couch and says: "Hey, if pay goes up, we'll just turn it all into the prices. Men must do their job, and that's where competition counts.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u44	A respectable president. We wholeheartedly agree on that, me and the highest. Ministers, to compete for good, very for good. I'd like to mention in terms of the image he pointed to in his copy of the budget bill that the head of the Economic and Business Committee had a lot of doubt that she could be right at a press conference held yesterday. I'm not going to get into it. However, I made the point that I didn't really want to see what the change was, but I would like to see what percentage of pay costs are here compared to what happens abroad. What's the difference between pay in Iceland and abroad? What's the difference between what people get paid in Iceland and how much they have to pay for their basket of food in Iceland? The difference is, young people go, and they come here to own a summer house. Is it the society we are going to build up? No, thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u45	Mr. President. First, I want to commend the highest. Secretary of finance and government for what I feel is well done in this bill and that is likely to result in success in the community. For one thing, I find it a very good way to remove from the law a permanent license to repay equal pedestrians to public funds and partnerships, for children should, of course, not have to be paid for any of the things their parents have raised in public debt. Likewise, I find great pleasure in extracting customs other than agricultural products and certain foods. You see, it's a fair thing that a commercial store in Iceland can stand equal to foreign competitors. Of course, it would also be most reasonable that the decommissionment of customs would flow directly into consumer pockets with a lower price, but in the light of experience, I'm afraid it's not given. Therefore, it is important that we consumers and various organizations carefully monitor these prices, and I would also prefer that governments follow through on this, although, of course, store owners cannot be punished for not reducing prices. But consumers have the right to know which stores are good, to put it directly in their own pockets, and to which stores make the decline to the consumers themselves. To say that there are some things on the bill that raise questions to me. Then I gave special thought to my overall goal. Overall, I feel that it is worth asking us about the priorities involved in reducing income taxes when we do not see enough medical care available to us, so that we are not talked about meeting basic human rights, such as the right of disabled persons to their own lives, while we cannot make the impression of hearing people for censoring or deaf persons, as an example. We need to ask ourselves, " Is the right time for a tax reduction right now? ' Based on what I'm looking at here, I can't help but see that the overall impact of all the tax reforms between 2016 and 2017 is estimated to be a loss of income to the state fund of less than 20 billion. But as we examine what it really means to return the individual, we are moved to do something. Of course, those who profit most from this tax change are individuals with some 700 of yours. K. per month. They are to be returned to about 12 yous. K. more in your pocket a month. How, though, does this affect those who have spoken of, to those with a rate of 100 to 300 thousand a month? Yeah, that'll give them 500 bucks. Unable to open file %1. K. per month. This is so obvious to the highest. The government thinks we have room for some 20 billion dollars. over the next two years in society. As it turns out, it is in my interest that if you have the highest salary, you get a little more in your pocket each month - about one tank of gasoline in a large car - two to three busloads or two cups of coffee a month for most people in need, people with very low incomes. Instead, we could allow some 20 billion people to share a combined and large - scale welfare system. We could improve our health system, we could ensure basic human rights, such as making it possible for disabled persons to bathe daily, like the rest of us, now, or just foster education systems for everyone, where each individual gets his or her own advantage regardless of how he or she studies information. You see, there is money and there is clearly room. It's always about priorities. I say for my part that I don't mind paying less taxes, getting more money, but not when we don't have enough money to ensure basic human rights and health care where we have tools, tools, new drugs, hospitals that meet health standards, and especially long-school staff who choose to work here instead of being refugees. It's the highest. A financial minister to avoid any anxiety that next month seems to lose a large group of health - care professionals when reports take effect, even though some have better withdrew them? We cannot afford to pay them competitive wages. Is there really no room for what we see here? It's more important for those with 700 points. K. During a month, you will be able to improve the 12 of you. K. but if you haven't, you don't have to add another 500 to 1,000 bucks. a month? At any rate, it is worth considering whether we are now ready for this operation, whether our funds are better spent on the factors mentioned here. Similarly, I am very concerned with seeing the proposed changes in child repairs, i.e. that they should now spread to more families than are expected to reduce the number of families that have the greatest benefits, which are likely to be the ones who need it most. I'd like to wonder here which purpose that serves exactly. I always imagined that benefits were just what they thought, so they improved the benefit of those who really needed them, not automatically benefits for just having children, even if you have a high salary. So finally, of course, I don't like the way many others do, I think, to see an increase in contributions to the National Church, and I don't think it's anything else that's happening in society. As I understand it, it's being raised by hundreds of millions, although the price change explained much, which is the exception of an increase in the rate of charges rising to 10% per person. I am aware that this is related to property resolution, but it is surprising. It is a wonder of priorities when we are not even equipped to help our brothers and sisters in Syria right away. In that case, it may be more important to support human behavior than to strengthen the divine house, property, and activity in these buildings. We must want to emphasize the importance of living up to our Christian values rather than building them a better setting for the State. Now, I think things are a lot less unpleasant than the result of the crash. There's a great deal of growth in shops and there's strong evidence of expansion, but there's little control of the bill, at least, as I understand it. This reading is as disturbing as it is, and there are indications of it in the community. I think it's extremely important that the State's survival is not simply a matter of keeping a certain group of government officials in a minimum, but just by not encouraging increased consumption through tax reductions when it seems like we're correcting the cow. Not to be overlooked is the fact that many social groups are still in the soup and have not had the basis to straighten their feet. Finally, I'd like to ask about the insurance bill and why not reduce it even more. The insurance bill is a hidden tax that does not appear on the pay card, and that may be why it is not as politically popular to do so. It's a tax that would be wise to turn down, because like a whale. paritaprevir The Valgerður of Bjarnadóttir came in earlier is the business of lowering the price, especially for the intelligent quality that is now in bloom. The reductions in the insurance fee would really be useful to small corporate drivers. So I would like to hear a view of why it was not started to reduce the cost more than that, rather than to reduce income taxes, as it is done here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u46	A respectable president. Just because of the above, the next year's insurance bill will be reduced by 0.14%, in line with previous legal adjustments. I can see why people wonder, " Why don't I put more emphasis on it, and what else did I stress? ' In fact, the idea of the first part of this year was being developed to emphasize even greater importance to the reductions in insurance debt than to other taxes in view of how things were looking at back then in government. Since then, something has improved, and what may be most important is that this is related to the strong results of the collective agreements, i.e. It was important to close the labour contract session to show the card about changes in income taxes. I'd like to state here that this is in the most natural and direct follow-up of the previously reported changes in the income tax system, so it in itself was very important to me to take these steps now. I mention it because I agree with it as it is. One senator says it's important to find ways to cut down the insurance. We stated that this would be a better priorities for this time and that we should not go further on paying taxes or pay on this financial bill, but our insurance costs will remain top priority.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u47	Mr. President. I'm glad to hear that the insurance bill is an important part of the government's reduction policy, but I'd like to say that just because of the results of collective agreements, it's important for employers to get something important. In particular, if small companies are to continue recruiting, it is important, and particularly with these collective agreements, that they are considering something important.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u48	Mr. President. I want to use the time I have here in 1st. the bill to discuss the changes in income taxation and the relation to the interest of older people and the future microorganism. If I have time, I'd also like to discuss only the management environment of the tourism services and the European Commission funds for tourism. I hear great harmony is when it comes to changing the income tax system from those who have spoken earlier in the discussion, i.e. Yeah. Councilmen representing the left movement ◯ green supply, the United States, and the bright future. I'm on the same line. I criticize these tax reforms because the equality of the tax system is being reduced with them. Of course, they are not surprising because a step has been taken, and now it is taking the step to the full, reducing the steps to two steps, reducing the gap between them. The budget was submitted on April 1, when similar changes are mentioned, proclaimed, and then implemented in this bill. A fine table on page 8. 12 For an explanation of the bill, it is shown how this will appear to individual income groups. Those with employment income of 300,000.k. every month, we get just over 1,000 bucks. out of the change, but those with 700,000 bucks. alone, more than 11,000. change. And the person with a million a month gets over 3,000 bucks. I'd like to ask, like the rest of us here today, why are we doing the right thing for 3,000 people? in a month when we cannot run the welfare services properly? For example, the right government intends to keep disability and pensioners under the minimum wage limit. What is required in these changes but in order to improve the interests of those with income and higher income, and it is politically important by this government that it is done while those with less income are left behind? If we examine just the statement that is here on page 18. 12 Above the table I just quoted earlier, it says, by permission of the president: It makes clear that the workers with employment around the average average have the highest share of the bill as unchanged by law. It is true that the average monthly work force of a full - time man is about 620,000 k. These changes give them most in their pocket, which has 700,000 jars. However, the median total labour pay for a general labour market is about 500,000, that's the pay in the middle, so there are as many people below and above. Half the qualified men get less than 6,000 bucks. Because of this change of the tax system, or less, and of those mentioned among the hands. But if we take everyone and also those who have to rely on social security benefits, then the median value is less than 400,000. in a month and in those with about 400,000 K. In months, 3,000 will be received, like those with 850,000 bucks. Or more. Of course, it is reasonable to ask, Why is this step taken? A respectable president. I would like to quote an article that appeared during the hours of the days that Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson wrote. It points out that the extent to which the government of the reign of Sigmundur, son of Davíð, the son of Gunnlaugsson, succeeded, was primarily used to lighten the tax burden and debt from the well - being of the land. To reduce tax burden and debt from the wealthier in the country is the basic theme of tax action. The changes that have been made, like the changes being made here, provide the greatest benefit for intermediate and high income workers. This applies not only to the changes in income taxation but also to the changes in the consumption of taxes. In turn, low - income professionals are less likely to benefit from this. By permission of the President, I want to quote a chapter in the article quoted in Jón Steinsson, an economic lecturer at the University of Colobia, U.S.A., dealing with the Icelandic income tax system in a fistula in 2010. There he says: The system with which Iceland and I have lived in the past few years has been the rightliest of the tax systems of all wealthy countries within OECD. The flat right - eard tax system was no doubt a major reason why the gap between the rich and the poor grew more in Iceland than in other parts of Europe during the years before collapse. According to Stefán Olafson's Ólafsson of sociology and Arnaldur Sölvi's Kristjánsson, economist, the tax burden of high - income groups fell considerably before the collapse of low - income groups. In this way, 1% of Iceland's income was treated with the taxing power, while the highest income was 1% in the United States. In 2007 this privileged group west of the sea had to pay in average more than 30% of their income tax, while the same group in Iceland had to give up only 13%. Iceland had a completely different view of taxation than neighboring countries, such as Sweden, Norway, and Denmark, where for decades there has been widespread agreement on business freedom and vigorous privacy, high taxes, and heavy drinking. The lack of confidence in the Norwegian arrangement came in the 2006 Business Council of Iceland, which states: A business agreement suggests that Iceland has stopped comparing itself with the North countries, which is the top priority in most areas. The changes announced are the same spirit as the bill we're discussing here. During the last term, the income tax system was converted into a step - by - step tax system, both in order to earn and also in order to balance the social status of the people. Now we're going back to the same place we were in before a crash. There are some signs in the air. It is not only the change in income tax; it is also the current electronic tax, which was the sole share of the public interest in energy resources, as the article mentioned earlier. Taking this tax off is most useful to foreign people. That is what makes the change. We know the wealth tax. We know the changes in the valuable tax system where food rose, while counter measures were not sufficient and the promised ones were not all benefited. For example, vegetables were raised there, while candy was dropped, the sugar tax was taken off, while other foods were increased. The changes that this government operates to be in the interest of the rich are something special when economists OECD have all pointed out that societies in which an equal state is the best and serves most well. Piketty has written a bestseller on this point, but the right government in Iceland is going in a very different direction. It gives rich discounts, but keeps micro-agers and pensioners under minimal control. These are the political messages, and they're crystal clear, and the right controls, those who walk in it, are absolutely not ashamed of it, they think they're good. I allow myself, Mr. President, to criticize that course severely. It speaks of a tourist position and that it should be 149 million. K. in 2016; 149 million. As we face the situation of that article, we are faced with a dignified president. There is no need to remind us of the increase in the number of tourists in this area, and now tourism is 29% of the exports than the 22% sea route and the 21% aluminium industry. Thus, travel services have grown inconspicuously, but no one seems to be holding the course. The government does not seem to want this large industry to grow in the same environment as the other sector in the country. Rather, it is made to grow as if it were a prosthetics. The article takes 29% of the population exports, and this is a serious issue, especially where large investments exist, although no one knows exactly what they are. In terms of investments, investments in fishing roads and industrial industry are being viewed, but they are lacking in tourism investments. The article grows, as we know, investments are large, the environment is abnormal, I allow myself to say, in contrast with other articles, and now we have the situation of growing stronger. What is to appreciate the impact of the stronger gang, the stronger dollars, has on the number of tourists? Will they be reduced? Will the combination change? What effect does it have on country distribution, etc.? Another problem with this new article, in which there are many good things to do, is that jobs do not bring much wealth. As a result, with the new jobs produced by the tourism industry, we do not have the problem of living, which is a lack of production. We're bringing in workers to do the low-paying work this article creates while the unemployment rate is low. Mr. President. I would have thought that under these circumstances there should be a team of experts working from morning to evening to put in warnings and predictions and instructions and to make sure that the article grows, so that it gives the public money, and it will not be so that it will crash with costs that will only happen to the public in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u49	Mr. President. I have to say, as it is, it's hard to throw off the Union's policy on taxes. This is where council members of the United States have come and said they have doubts that there's a prerogative to lower taxes. Now others come and say that it needs to be done differently. In the course of time, the Conspiracy came up with the idea that we should move the range of income between the lowest level and the middle level, thus reducing the impact of the middle phase. What are we doing here? We're lowering the taxes to the bottom level to 22.5%, and then we're cutting off the middle step. When that government succeeded them, 25.8% took up the course of a salary of 250 yous. K. From this point on, all pay will be less than 700 of you. K. goes down to 22.5%. Hv. One senator says that this is far too much for those who are in the middle of business, but the fact is that it results in the benefit of all who have so far paid taxes at the bottom of the stage and in proportion to the same benefit. Yes, most dollars are available to those at the top, but we still have a social tax system that ensures a certain equation. It's a social opinion based on the income tax system by personal discount and the one with 700 points. K. pays as he does today a higher percentage of his pay in taxes than he pays less. It's just that way. Now I feel that it is time for the Conspiracy and others who criticize these suggestions to realize whether they want to lose their head weight on the tax burden of the country's average and those below, or to do something else, as I have often heard, suggestions to go into the reform system and other aspects? Is it not just that the Conspiracy is totally against tax reductions for the intermediate income and its subsidies? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u50	Mr. President. The Union's tax policy is very clear, and it's in her approval. We want a step-traveled income tax system that has a strong role in making money for the state. We feel that the equation is just as important and that the tax system will also pass it. That's what's at the top. The financial and economic ministers are preaching here, using the bill that we address, are reducing the equality of the tax system. It's the highest. A minister disagrees? I'm sure I'd like to go to a tax cut if we're that way that way, we can do it. We are now faced with a wonderful health - care problem. We have mass limits in high school. For example, we're going to keep disability and pensioners under the minimum range. The road system is disintegrated after a collapse. That's a long way to count. As long as the work is done, I don't think it's a reason to go to taxes if that's the way I find them. But I want to preserve the equation, and that's what we want in the United States. I'd like to ask the highest. Just to the contrary, does he feel that we are in a place with the welfare system, with the status of the invalids and pensioners, with the status of the high school, that we can distribute thousands of calls to those who are better off in society, not just by these changes but by other changes established by the right government?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u51	Mr. President. When the Company suggested that we reduce the tax on pay from your 250- to350. K. it would have been for a salary that is above. While men were crawling over it, like, 100 you. K. a failure to pay less taxes, which would have paid up the entire pay grade. The question is, Can we afford to reduce taxes at the same time as many people find it difficult to make ends meet? I say we can do both. We're adding the evading power of disability, and we're improving the cost of pensioners. Do we need to do better? Yes, we need to do better. We need to do this every year, gradually, to raise our costs, and thus have a solid foundation for the economy that we are putting forward here with a long-term budget in terms of government money. Then we will be able to increase the level of money each year and improve the situation of these groups. We're doing a lot of work next year. In 2014, we improved the buying power of these groups. It also happened this year, and it will happen out of the year, and then we are raising significant improvements by next year, more than before. Therefore, my answer is: Yes, there is now evidently time to reduce taxes. It's nice that it's only clear that the Continental feels that there is neither economic circumstances to reduce taxes nor that we should use the economic scope to take such measures, we are more likely to raise the budget. There we disagree. I think we have to be very careful about adding to the state's spending levels. I've heard ideas that it should be financed by further tax increases. It may be nice to just show up in the discussion that the big difference between our economic and the government's policy, I think, is that it wants to raise taxes. We've got some bills already. Yesterday, the chairman of the United States of America proclaimed more taxes for the tourism services and for the rest of them. At the same time, we are reducing taxes and dropping temporary taxes, which were put under extremely difficult economic circumstances, and then we are reducing taxes. [[The president calls.]] This may crystallize the distinction between government and government opposition. [[The president calls.]] We want to lower the taxes, the others are going to raise them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u52	Mr. President. I think you're absolutely right at the highest. Minister, there's a difference between right men and left men. When right men believe that the situation is that we have come out of the collapse, after what happened, the cuts we had to go to and weaken the support of the welfare system at the collapse, and we have come to the point where we can lower taxes and, of course, we should first lower taxes from the richest people in the country, on the fishing business, and so on. These are the priority groups the right management wants to reduce taxes. However, it is probably a matter of keeping microattainers and pensioners under minimal limits. It is reliable that there is the difference between the emphasis on the right control and the opposition to the government. I think that was very clear in the discussions we've had here today. We want a step- apart income tax system. I think there's a good chance of looking at the gaps between steps. Besides, I'm sure I'd like to see how it gets out for people, but there's a lot of sense and failure to get the right person who has a million in a month 3 of yours. K. and then have the national hospital, so that mold is grassers because, for example, 1.5 billion can't be maintained there. We're in trouble all over the welfare system, but the right government considers top priority. Secretary of finance and I og Kári Stephensson get 3 of you. K. more than a month. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u53	Mr. President. Indeed, it is possible to say that this is an interesting discussion today regarding this income tax bill and the financial bill as such, as a means to understand it, may be the main emphasis that surfaces the revenue candidates. They include the planned tax reductions just mentioned, and I have to say before and have said that I don't understand how you can talk about the lack of money, how you can talk about the rest of your money when we're so unfashionable into the future. It's our infrastructure, almost whatever they are, here was last called the welfare services, hospitals, not just the Landspits, but many. Of course, all the good things are done, 100 million put on medical care, that is not supposed to be good, but it just takes much more. It also applies to social security, transportation, and education. We have not really risen from the ashes of the collapse, but not completely, though we have been moving up constantly since the beginning of 2009. We have not come to the point where we can allow ourselves to give up money or to reduce taxes, which are more favorable to some than to others, as we have so well considered. It is quite clear that it is not our left green policy to reduce the number of tax steps as presented here and have been clearly identified. Here's a little bit of success, so there's a reason to discuss that the bill assumes a far greater inflation rate than agencies are being replaced with an update due to a price of 3.78%, which is expected to result in 4.5% inflation. What does that really mean? Are we talking about the use of cuts or so - called treatments, as is often said today? Bank agencies are also getting considerable resources, including some of them. in that the insurance policy has not been addressed or cannot be addressed as a fixation method e.g. The percentage between loans and loans to try to stop it. Interestingly, the equation will only improve 20 billion until 2019, which is only 0.2% of GDP. The cost of money is only dropped by 12 billion, certainly it is very good, but not much compared to the large statements that have been made here for subsidies and other factors. Then you will wonder whether it is the fact that it is here to sell government property, whether it is the Lands Bank or Landing, or any other property owned by the State, because money needs to be taken somewhere. So is the space here being made, as mentioned earlier, that is tens of billions, not only because of the money already quitd because it has been decided not to extend certain taxes but also because of the tax doctors who have already appeared and are to be in effect in the next year. It's about to encourage a lot of expansion, a lot of personal consumption if it's supposed to bridge this space, the tens of billions of dollars that are actually being picked up, considering that this will all work out. We know that too. It's clear that they've been on the highest level. This car must be bridged, as I mentioned by selling state property. Nor is it for good reason that here again and again the more successful members of the community are benefiting from what the government is going to do because it is directly presented in the budget, in direction and viewing, and in this alliance that we are discussing here, it is merely a metaphor and the nature of the case, as it were. The income decreases by 2.5% over the next four years, making it appear that the right direction of the government is becoming increasingly reduced by our income in a common health, education, and welfare system. We'll most likely have the lowest market for all the northern countries and perhaps lower than the United Kingdom. This, of course, is in harmony with what these communities have experienced that have been under such a long - term right control. In terms of the investment, it was brought to the attention earlier today and at a meeting of the budgetary committee and the F.O.W.s yesterday that it is just hanging in 1 or 1.5% of GDP. We're reducing maintenance, and here it's reserved for big business but, for example. not all of these hotel buildings that are being built above and larger than that, e.g. Made coats in crowns and pennies. Of course, it's a little special that you always take the big-time policy instead of some other method of employment investment, e.g. in innovations, as I said, or hotel buildings, which I'm really worried about. This is especially true in view of the high rate of gang swings, and in view of what I was saying, you are concerned that travel will become too much of a debt. I think that's a very real concern because tourists don't keep growing. It's very important that we get some decent ratings for the tourism services, what the situation really is in this policy. As I said before, certain revenues were taken, and it seems that things are going back to the same familiar disappearance, perhaps involving making money and selling money was a huge part of the budget before a collapse, but it fell down at the time that we almost lost a nation. Now that it's back on track, it's got to be 60% of the total number, so there's a real reason why people talk about how they feel we're going back to what used to be. It can also be maintained because this government has been rather ill - mannered with the wealth tax that it is still returning in the next year, that is the kind of aftertaste that will give about a billion. So it still benefits this government, who enjoys playing cards. Of course, with regard to our priorities, we can talk for a long time about being better able to deal with them. This is expected to be a 3% increase in the reference height for child improvement, and it says here on growth reforms, with the permission of the president: Thus, for the next year, the provision of the law on the basis of the law will return to growth, and the support of a government fund in the form of growth reform will be distributed on more families, i.e. In families that are not improved today, but at the same time, the improvement in the families that have enjoyed maximum improvement (low income and moneyless families) reduces the quality of their families. When things appear so black on a bill used by the right government, it is hardly possible to resist when the government side of the council claims to be better off with those who have it. There are, of course, things in this bill that are attributable, e.g. The agent of debt, I've been worried that he's being cut too expensive. I don't think we've quite reached that place yet. Then there's social security, which is 3,18, I think the average payoff would have to be increased to the beat of pay development, which is now 109,600 bucks. per month. In fact, that is the only thing that must seem reasonable. In view of the fact that we are always increasing the number of people involved in disability, that is not to say that people can do less work than just be weak, it is not encouraging. We want to try to build an encouraging system. I also have to say about the tourism fund that I do not agree with the approach claimed by the minister of the seminary, that the funds approved for longevity or otherwise for those to whom the money was due were not to be used. That's because it's decided on budgets, decided at a government meeting, not through the budget, to put money into it. This is a late presentation that leads to the failure of those who have thought to get some compensation, even if it does not get a person's personality or something else, but it's not because of lateness, at least not according to the ones I've heard of. There's been a lot of talk about the income tax, and there's no need to get further into it, that's done in detail. I'd like to roll up here at 42nd and 43. G., where the elderly are still assigned to finance nurses. I would've liked to see it cut down, that changed. Of course, this money is primarily reserved for new buildings, as we know but not for business. This fund needs to be built up, and, of course, it's not under the rules and laws. It's an aberration. I think we should have taken advantage of this opportunity to fix it. At the end, you have to express deep frustration with certain factors, such as communication, that there is no more involved. Based on what is estimated here and if the donations are to be about this, I think it will be over the next 20 years that communication will be properly performed. It is quite clear that this needs to be added very much if this is to be okay, secure the estate, ensures equal opportunities for employment. To be honest, I was supposed to be putting more into this team. They also need suggestions on meeting heavy medical expenses, and I mean, not just because they have to go to the hospital, but because of those who come from far away. There is nothing here that can be said to enter the flight, but this led to a parapolitic conclusion. I would've wanted to see it in here. Of course, I can't help talking about the road type that I've done many times and much. I find it atrocious to see it, as it were, in the highest language. The Minister of State suggests that it implements a strategy where a much smaller project, both maintenance and other projects are expected, but the one we saw in spring and that, when we receive images of a terrible situation on highway 1 in the Beufjörður bottom, is not really offering anyone. A respectable president. A few finally. The government is raising itself by 23 million. Compared to that, the pocket money of a pensioner is rising by 40 million. S-labelled medicinal products decrease absolute value by 16 million, the State Attorney drops 11 million. Of course, this is not acceptable, and we need to review this when discussing these matters and the financial bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u54	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill to legalize the various grounds of a budget bill. I'll make it here as a subject, including... changes in the tax system because it is clear in the discussions that are presented here in politics that distinguish people and place themselves in ways that lead to their goals. That's pretty clear. With independent persons and, as some call right persons, have always spoken to taxes and simple tax systems. This government is now taking another step in reducing taxes, and when the two steps presented here become a reality, the lower levels of the tax system will be 22.5% and the top step will be about 36%. This tax change, this simplicity of the tax system, comes best with low income and money. Those with 700 points. K. per month and above, continue to pay the percentage level today. No one from the left man has been happy with what he's been doing, that there's been a down payment on low-payers and middle payers, but keeping his tax fee on 700 of yours. K. and above. It is quite remarkable to hear this in parallel with what people talk about using the tax system as an equation, when compared with low - incomeers and middle - income earners, to make things somehow different. But this change in the midpoint presented here, and most of us senators should know, was one of the criteria for signing agreements in the past spring. It was one of the reasons why these agreements were signed. That's why I say, in politics, there's an differences in goals. We in the Independence Party, right men, would like this simple tax system to match those with less income and intermediate income but continue the same percentage in the top level, and in fact, the gap is reduced from 840 p.m. K. if I remember right down to 700 of you. K. for those who pay them in the upper steps, the third level this day. In addition, the lower limit of normal was also increased in the 2014 tax change. This government put up with simplifying the tax system, and this is a big step towards that. These tax changes lead to increased provision for all remuneration recipients, but this is particularly useful for intermediate groups. Of course, I welcome these tax changes and think they're good, and I would have even wanted to see them go further. I'd also like to mention that in the last budget, product charges were taken away, and now we're taking another step. Tollar will be struck down by more groups of goods, and it will likely bring back to the people of the land whether they are on low incomes or on high incomes, increasing donations. A lot of people want to do things differently, and that's fine, but we who are willing to cancel the fees and cancel tolls, of course, will welcome these changes. It has been discussed that the first step will include clothing and shoes and the second step to another product. But then they've come here and they're saying that we're not here to reduce tolls on groceries. It is not particularly welcome to learn that clothes and shoes are being reduced to customs. No, food foods are not being reduced, but the fact is that many foods are free of toll. On the other hand, when people in this hall say that we are talking about agricultural products, the basic thing is that we are not reducing taxes on food products. It's probably the basis, and it's just a whole different debate that the members of Congress have to take if they want to protect Icelandic agriculture and customs, prices, and amplitude, or if they want to go any other way. I'm one of those who want both amplitude and prices of the import of food products, meat and cheese and other products because I believe in Icelandic agriculture and I think he and his goods will always be theirs. However, there is a debate that should be taken elsewhere, not in the context of a general decline in customs, but in whether we want to undergo a complete change in agrienvironment schemes in general and how. In most countries we compare ourselves with them, agriculture is protected by some kind of government granting in the same way that it is done here with state - strength agriculture, and we also spend with amplitude and prices, and I say it again and again, I'm one of those who would like it to be considered. I'd like to agree too with what. paritaprevir Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir of automobiles in general is that they will simply be reduced, not just that we will be suspended on the premiums. There's no fees and transfer fees that I take care of e.g. electric cars. They enjoy special positions in relation to diesels and fuel cars, and then, as we have seen here, rentals have been given a reserve of cash and are being reduced in resources. I welcome it, as well as the fact that this view has developed, and I take to heart the fact that it is to reduce the price of automobiles to individuals, not just to companies and businesses, but to individuals and not just to some people, but to all. I'd also like to make the subject a change in time credits, but personally I've wanted to go further. I want it to be in this discussion that in a law rather than in law, people are discriminated against by marriage, and this is true of divorce. If a person is enrolled and divorced, and one person buys part of the other's property, he should pay the clock when the registration is changed. If you live in a dedicated life whether you are a priest or a sheriff, you are not charged with it. I think it's ridiculous that by 2015, we're going to discriminate people about divorce. And because I'm at it. The head of the Economic and Business Committee is sitting here in the hall, and I'm going to direct my words to them. An officer said he'd go against it and correct this distinction. It's the elderly's contribution fund. This is an estimated 3% increase in cost, and it will continue to be permitted to move from this fund to a nursing facility. Now I don't really know whether it's general or whether it's for the nursing homes where local communities have financed the building and borrowed all the building and then paid for a certain amount of rent paid by the state, whether it's part of what's being financed by the fund of the elderly. I agree, however, that it is not acceptable in the long run, although we have ever had to work out from year to year because of a poor year's trip, to reassign stock costs to business. It's just not supposed to happen. Then I'll see here on this bill that parish fees are rising, and I'll expect other charges to be paid to religion. It doesn't matter if I'm part of the National Church and I've always been and I don't intend to resign from it, but I still feel this should change. There are no fees to pay, no charge to pay, nor to pay from state funds, or to other religions or such. It's supposed to be private, and they're to take care of themselves. As I said at the outset, the debate over this bill will be incorporated to correct the terms of a financial bill by category, depending on political emphasis. I'm happy because we're elected here by different groups of society, by people who have different political views. And people with different political views are not always here in this room to play a compromise role, either independents, partners, greens, candidates, or others. It's only supposed to crystallize here at a council where people are elected because they represent certain political opinions, in the votes on a matter, that there is a political conflict between categories in the issue and the approach of issues. We should not be afraid to allow the political issue to crystallize because there is democracy in the country, and people can pull out representatives if they are not of the same political opinion. Finally, I'm going to allow myself to celebrate here alone in the budget bill, and I didn't participate in the discussion then, but it's done in the General Assembly. I'm glad we're finally going to have the courage and the strength to finish the front gate here at the Cathedral and at the old houses that stand next to the House of Cathedral and continue the renovation of the Documents. That's what I think will bring honor to the council. Based on the amount of money available here, the house can be completed and the house can be started at an indoor stage, with a view to the completion of the house in 2017. I think it's an O.O.R. Over there.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u55	A respectable president. It is fun to make a change in this council hall to come in from the top of the board and get involved in a discussion. Sadly, too little of that happens. You're absolutely right. A senator says, we're in politics, and I'd like to be sure I'm not necessarily a spokesman for hair taxes. If we can afford to have taxes low, they should be low, but we need the natural necessities we want from a common fund. I'm afraid that's the case these days. I also want to say clearly that I don't object to simplifying my taxes. I'm especially against simplifying income taxes. I want the income tax system to be step-in because it increases the balance and power of the income tax system, and that's why I want it to be that way. I'd also like to say about what's going on here and what. A senator says, this is best for low incomes and intermediate incomes. It's not good enough for the lowest wage, it's not good enough for those who make money. I was fighting the highest. Minister on that. There may well be some interaction between an outsider and a income tax, it just doesn't matter. [[The president calls.]] This is not enough for the lowest, and we need to change the system there, and I want to keep three steps.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u56	A respectable president. It is clear, then, that the senator wants to move three steps. I'm opposed to the fact that this taxation change here is good for the underpayers. The change in the tax system in 2010 was at the low rate of 24.10%. Today and based on the changes, it goes down to 22.5%. There must be improvement for those with the lowest salary. In addition, the lower limit of the lower level has been increased from 200 thousand to over 290 thousand. If this change in the tax system and the increase in reference limits is not for the underpayers, I'm incredibly poor on account, which I don't think I am.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u57	A respectable president. Of course, we both know how to calculate, and of course we'll cut tax on underpayers if the tax step drops. I hope the Senator isn't going to talk to me about this kind of talk. What I was saying is that there are still the lowest steps that have to be paid, they pay an answer, and then someone says, "Yes, that's rural control. " It doesn't matter, it's official fees, and we're supposed to lose as much as possible on the bottom. That's my opinion. Then I'd like to say what. A senator says that I completely disagree with her about talking about tolling on agricultural products or shoes is a completely different subject. Nothing else is involved, agricultural products are just as much product as shoes. [[The president calls.]] We can talk about it here because it's not a personal prayer whether these charges are down on us consumers in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u58	A respectable president. I reiterate what I said that these changes in the tax system exist, including a drop in meeting the underpayers, a decrease from 24.10% to 22.5%, as well as a positive effect on the number two people in the middle. In terms of agriculture customs, I mentioned earlier in my talk that I was one of those who wanted to be examined by both a condom and a magma, and I believe that they should be lowered. On the other hand, I want us to take up a conversation about the whole agricultural system, about the concentrations available for agriculture per se - I apologize for the sleigh, the dignified president - and we'll talk about it in this room and in the conversation with the people of the country, how much they want to protect the Icelandic agriculture. Is it ready to do so in this money - torn system or with some protective tools? I don't feel that making that decision is a personal matter, either my own or any other senator. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u59	Mr. President. This is thankable when members of the General Assembly participate in the discussion of the basics of the government presented here. Hv. A senator makes a big point of the changes in income taxation now being made with an increase in tax steps does not really involve an increase in the inequities we have claimed, members of the government stand. However, it is a fact if you examine the table on page 20. 12, which shows the effect of these changes on certain income groups, that the person with 1 billion. K. This is a three-fold advantage for a low - incomeer who has 300 you. K. in a month of counting. A million dollars is given to the man. K. decrease on a thousand dollars a man. decrease, followed by 11◯12 you. K. decrease in the number of people with a range of around 700 points. K. That's the equation. A senator speaks of these changes. We have a health system that is in very big trouble. We have educational systems that are experiencing severe trials. The U.S. high school schools have arrived for access limits. We have a health system that has a serious avatar escape from the country, a health system that we can say is running out of. At the same time, the government provides a bill for changing laws on a changed provision of 15 billion dollars. which, based on the priorities of the last budget and priorities put into place, are about to increase the inequities in society, to make an advantage for those who are more fortunate at the expense of low - income workers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u60	A respectable president. Once again, I don't agree entirely that the money tax change that is put into place and implemented in 2016 and 2017 don't do much good for underpayers and middle carers. As far as I'm concerned, these people are better off paying taxes in this way. We can stand here and disagree on that, but it makes sense that 22.5% of income taxes are paid up to 700 yous. K. is less than 24.1%. I guess we'll agree on that, me and what. Senator. Nevertheless, 22.5% is an option for underpayers and middle carers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u61	A respectable president. It's just a fact that the one who has 1 billion. K. During a month, a triple profit will be considered to be equal to the other 300 farts. K. every month, based on the changes and criteria presented in the report with the bill. It is clear where the heart beats in the present government. The priority order shows this, all for the good of those whose power is better off. As we can see, the hip is covered by high - paying workers, and these are measures that are involved in addition to the discounts of large - scale fishing costs, in the lack of control of tourism, which, however, is the most powerful tool for our society, one of the most powerful foundations. It's all in the same book that I have to say, as it is, it's kind of hard to see these emphasis compared to all the basic projects that exist on welfare and other infrastructure. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u62	A respectable president. The hunting costs and the like had to come at it. Nevertheless, the fact is that no one has been charged a higher rate of hunting than in the time of this government, never, to be said. If left men always find it okay to tax what's going reasonably well to do something else, I disagree with that political bitch. It's just that way. I want those living in this country and paying for the combination to receive it regardless of the economy and the habitat, from the education system as well as from the health system. Thus, the Independence Party has always spoken, and there is no change there and has not been. We've always said about the health system that regardless of the economy or the habitat, it's supposed to be financed by taxes. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] However, we are willing to trust someone other than the government to run a part of the medical system.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u63	Mr. President. The chairman of a panel of independence officials is a warrior of its kind. In recent years, it has been popular to talk about having a conversation, and it has been a popular practice to talk about the need to have it, and it has to lead to all the disagreements on the earth. In recent years, it has been a fashion for all too many politicians and political parties. What has resulted? This has resulted in at least In the past few years, and the loss has never been as large a controversy between the International Parliament as in politics in general, and not just that, through conversational politics, the political parties have in a sense existed, so for a large part of the nation it's all the same tobacco. I come up here mostly to express my admiration for what was happening. A senator who put down a flag on our behalf, not believing that conversation matters are the best form of politics. I agree with what happened. One senator said that an honest disagreement in which crystals differ from groups leads to the best results in the long term. Opinions about ideas, competition ideas, political policy conflicts; that is what has, despite all of it, made Iceland into the society that it is today and that is excellent and is an excellent society in which people have dealt strongly with different political policies and have become some kind of conclusion that we can all enjoy. This was just my business here, saying, "Why?" A member of the Parliament that we are at the National Parliament trying to define ourselves and the policy we represent, but do not always make every effort to resolve the issue. Opponents have a right.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u64	A respectable president. I'm not sure it was an answer, but I just want to thank you. And I'm glad that there are others who would like to have there to be some ideological differences in the approach of politics. We disagree on goals, but we here probably all have the goal of creating as good a law for those who live in the country, that is our role number one, two and three, but there is always a political dispute on the road. I'm happy as hell. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson said here, and I will continue to agree with him in this situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u65	Mr. President. So I'm well aware that people here only resort to slants about basic politics and are not shy about people's differing views on things based on their outlook on life and on politics. I'm closer to thinking that we're at some breakthrough with this grandest case. The secretary of finance, for this is the wheel of the stepwise income tax, and it is suggested to legalize the changes in the income, which, in fact, come to effect in two years. Perhaps it is done to avoid having to wear it at election year. I don't like these changes, so they say right away. It is quite clear that immediately by going from three steps to two, a part of the income balance value of the income tax is lost. The details of the case indicate this, in the paper of the bill, the table on page 5. 12 That Many have quoted here. True, the top step is being held. We may be to thank you for that, the government is not so underpriested, as was a government of the same categories in 2003-2007, to completely cancel a special income tax burden at the highest salary. What was then done was natural by such an end, and the novelisticism had nothing to do with walls at the time, as it does something today. It's the same course. To evict the tax system is a new policy. True, it is all very fine bandages, silky bandages, a simple, round tax system, a low - weight load of people. But how does this come down? Thus, as shown here, the benefits grow as the income is higher, and even the highest group gets a triple reduction in the low income. This, however, is just one smell of the context in which these things need to be discussed. It is the measures that the present government represents and the highest. The secretary of finance is always sanctimonious when he comes here to the speaker's chair and talks about what a wonderful thing it's like to cut down payment, lower tolls, to reduce income taxes, to reduce fiscal taxes, to reduce fishing costs, to reduce energy taxes. It's always the same speech, but when it comes together, it'll gather. I was struggling to put together in addition to what appears in the financial reviews, the cost story of this bill, where it is now taking place. Some have mentioned here numbers. This is just under 15 billion bucks. At table, everything in extremely good packaging, ◯one-fold and a low - weight pack of ⇩ 700 yous. K. The people. This can be added to the 5 billion in terms of the current price that last year's decrease in midpoint level could be added. If I recall correctly, the government's loss of net income was reduced and related to an increase in food tax between 5 and 6 billion because the increase in food tax was not reduced by the reduction of the upper level in the value tax and the breakdown of the product tax. Let's say 6 billion there. The wealth tax would give a minimum of 10 billion now and probably more if it was laid on the same page, since wealth has increased rapidly. What if there are 5 billion at a table that would be very moderate fishing costs, compared to the flow of the fishing grounds today, and 2 billion will go out with the energy tax? It's 4,443 billion close, just folding like this. They will correct me if they believe that something is wrong here. That's a lot of money. It is more than 2% of GDP. That's less than 6% of the budget today, even between 6% and 7%. That's a lot of money, but it's worth it. What the minister of finance is doing is quite simple. Since the spell is creating a temporary significant benefit for the state's funds, and the income stocks that had been fortified during the last terms naturally yield more as the economy grows and the automatic multiples are involved, he can do this without the government's going on the other side. Is it responsible? Is that wise? I don't think so. Of course, I'm hoping that after a few years, there will not be any secretary of finance to take Iceland back in ruins where the economy had collapsed and the income had dried up like dew to the sun, especially the unstable income that flows into the economy. Here, the stable, stable income institutions must be largely the foundation of the welfare system if they are not to be dragged apart and assembled like an harmoni balloon according to the way rivers in the economy. It is not good for a society of welfare to live in such unstableness because when it is difficult to deal with it, the elderly also need to live in difficult times and because we too need to run the community. Mantran, who is transferred to these materials, is relieved and simplified. Substitution of the tax system is no significant argument because just being simple is not the primary and primary objective of the tax system. The main goal is that the tax system is fair, that it is righteous, that it distributes its burdens in a just way, and that its citizens have the power to do so but the rest are spared. It is the main objective of the tax system, to earn money for the combination in a fair way. Of course, the tax system is supposed to be efficient. But there is no fairness and justice with a ruler, that is not the case, with a flat bar on the tax system. Then there are the goals of fair distribution of the burdens that humans are naturally endeavoring to achieve, at any rate, where social thinking is somewhere close to humans when they shape policies in these areas. The conclusion must, of course, be that if the tax system does not have to be overly complex, to avoid having such problems, that peripheral effects are not unfair, etc. and, of course, to achieve the reasonable goals for the distribution of taxes that right thinking people observe. What are the taxes for? When a minister of finance comes here with his silk speeches to lighten his load, the other side is never mentioned. The tax system is designed to render needed public service. This is to ensure that those who must rely on society for their own good. It is designed to invest in the interiors of society and to provide for the future. The design here is not least irresponsible because, in effect, it is the source of the future - it does, secretary of finance. This four - year budget is especially disappointing to me because I feel that Iceland is giving up on moral ground right away. We're just gonna have a nice and comfortable time here for the next few years. True, we are not running a government fund with a tilt, but we are not paying off debts to make a name of ourselves. We are not attacking long - term and urgent investments in the interiors of society, which, of course, we had to spend a lot of time with ourselves in the most difficult years. What does it mean that the roads shrink down, the housing of the government shrinks down? That means it's gonna have to be fixed later, and then some people have to pay it, but not us now or in the years to come. We are doing well, and we are to rejoice over what the minister of finance is now a hearty man who is about to relieve us of our burdens. What's the reason to keep in the same sentence for the amount of pay rising in Iceland? What's the advantage of human efforts to improve in the economy and to cut off taxes especially and even the higher income? You see, it's politics. If anything's politics and politics, that's it. That's why it's good for us to talk it over with nothing. Actually, the most important political bitch is the films that last year's budget, which even show evolution into the next election period, according to a four - year financial program. On page 18. 91 and 92 will discuss the development of the State's prime costs without any irregularity of budgeting. What does that picture show? Even in spring, there has been a change for the worse. It was then said, certainly it was recognized that the primary charges without irregular joints should be reduced by 1% of gross domestic product during the programme period. Now more than 1.2% of GDP has been added. That is a considerable amount of money at a time when the domestic product is approaching 2,000 billion. This means that this important instrument, perhaps the unique measurement that tells us the most about where the welfare community in Iceland is going, is in comparison with other northern countries. It tells us that the initials without irregular joints, i.e. The government's cost of growth without growth costs and irregular joints will be below 23% of gross domestic product at the end of the programme, instead of an average of 26◯28% in the period between 10 and 15 years or so. There's a really different community, but I think most of the country wants to live in. It is obvious that if this is the result, we are regressed from other northern nations and will have a weaker welfare system and a more far - reaching situation. This happens slowly and quietly and through, among other things, these fine tax changes are at the highest rate. Secretary of finance is always on the rise. You see, it accumulates when it comes together. Some 43 billion in all, then, are being weakened by the power of the state's income. Economically, I don't think it's wise either, and to make sure that I'm well aware that some taxes should be lowered, I would have liked to see some of this space go to a reduction in the insurance bill. I don't understand the arrangement to leave it entirely behind but go out into things like this. Then I'll just be the only one who has the guts to say it. I don't jump out of my shoes, even if there's some product reduction, I just don't do it. It's nice to be able to reconsider, and some of it is often lost, but I would have liked to have seen a return to income. I would have wanted men to say, "This isn't a good tax base, it's a problem to have these bills and they melt things. Let's lay them down, but let's take them a little more. All changes to the highest. Secretary of finance to be known as one exception, i.e. the increase in food taxes is done at the expense of government funds. All the goals that the government intends to achieve are to meet in simple terms, to reduce the income of the state. It's going through like a red thread and leads to the conclusion that the welfare community in Iceland will have a much weaker advantage if this becomes a time of development, below 23% of the GDP we have to run a welfare community in Iceland. The tents, however, do not go as far down as they are. It is misleading to watch that film because the interest costs are, unfortunately, holding them higher, and the total cost will probably be about 25% of the gross domestic product at the end of the schedule. Is this not discussed within the parties? It so happens that there is one candidate here, even though none of them have, I think, engaged in the discussion. [[Take it up to two.]] - Well, two more times, what's this, we're fine. Didn't they talk about this in the board? Has the big film never been adopted in cooperation with these government groups? Will the advance party allow the Independence Party to lead them completely unconscious in the finish line, home in Valhalla on taxes, and the focus on government funds? That's what we're doing here. Now, let me make it clear that certain things in this bill are good, and the bandworm is far from the most unfortunate thing you've ever seen here. To tell you the truth, the highest will escape. The minister of finance is relatively well - off, considering some of the things that others have been forced to contribute to this kind of launch. For example, I consider the change with alcohol to be reasonable. It seems reasonable to me to transfer alcohol to a lower level and raise the alcohol costs in return. There are, of course, more important matters to be on the program. But I think it's time for us to start taking here one and one talk about the big movie in this and the basic political issues here, so that our new free will not be allowed to slip like a mouse in the back of us at this time. [[The president calls.]] She used walls more than she did when her pride was greater, but unfortunately, she is still guided. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u66	Mr. President. I want to thank you for a small and dynamic talk here on the big movie, and especially for the opportunity to discuss it. For example, it was welcome that this talk was part of our presentation that we have been filling the cost of taxes and the cost of some 40 to 6 billion dollars. I'm going to keep it this way, in part, is a matter of temporary taxes that are rooted in the former government, and she always said that she should be a temporary tax. So I think that there's a hole in it when people come here, and I'm especially sorry they haven't been extended. I'm also going to remind you that a new government has increased the bank tax by about 40 billion, thus making room to close the budget, to save homes and employment, and to get more money into the financial system, and especially in the stock market. May I also point out that basic equations are one of the greatest in Europe in Iceland. There is no greater equation in one European Union. Still, people here are talking about the need to raise taxes. It's like they don't see our problem on the credit side. He's not lying here because he doesn't pay his taxes normally to what's going on in the community, just not at all. [[Up front.]] Those who speak in such a way as hell. A senator's work here is to call for an increase in the expenditures, an increase in the cost, an increase in the consumption and increase more on the shoulders of the tax collectors. Yeah, there's a clear political disagreement on this, and it's probably just talking about it. This bill allows us to eliminate consumer taxes that maintain high prices, which reduce the competitiveness of the store, from under- and at the top and at the top of the pay grade, and from the least of those who have a minimum of the money between the hands and the lowest salary. [[The president calls.]] Our mission is to reduce debt and keep curses as low as we can. Yeah, we're gonna have to keep the wood clear, but we're in this bill to add the initials to the name and we're adding compensation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u67	Mr. President. It is true that arrangements were taken during the acute crisis or after the collapse were temporary or temporary. They were legalized for two, three years, then some extended years and made permanent. For one thing, this was done because, of course, men were resorting to measures of great uncertainty and in the midst of the black hole of collapse. However, as early as the first national budget in the spring of 2009, it was stated that if any of them disappeared, the temporary or permanent measures taken would need to be met. Thus, the plans were always revised up until the fall of 2012 that if any temporary drop in income resources, the same standard plans would have to be met, either to a new source of income or to save money to keep the plan. You should keep this in mind. This is not a requirement for a person to raise taxes, it's a misunderstanding at the highest level. Secretary of finance. They're arguing about whether it's wise to lower them so much and to do so, where to carry down and to what extent. I could accept that well-published changes in the tax system, e.g. In a sense, the reduction of insurance costs and, to some extent, changes that would have made the largest income particularly good, cost in that sense perhaps a third or half of that, if we just met halfway and said: instead of having lost the income of 43 billion plus, we might still have half of it. What could we not do for more than 20 billion, whether in investments, in infrastructure, in welfare matters, or in such things? I think it is also economic and economically unwise that the state relaxes in this way. It is better to keep more money from the state, and take care of them because of a pressure situation, than just to lower taxes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u68	Mr. President. What we're doing is that we're losing weight with people, middlemen, and, in fact, all the way down the pay ladder. We're strengthening the benefit of the reform systems. We're redirecting child reforms more to those who have more income and increasing the losses of those who have the highest income, so we're using the space down there. We've been raising child improvements by 13% and we'll continue to keep them in terms of prices. As we examine the balance role of the income tax system, not all photos are included in the above talks. According to one authority, the income balance role of the tax system is being reduced, but what is the situation of these diverse income groups? The man is paying about 20% of his income in taxes, while the man who is often called pays 35% for his taxes. The tax burden is much bigger. We have the same nature in the system, but we are in the meantime relieved of the intermediate groups. Most of it goes to those around the market, and it's those who got the biggest load in the crash, got the most tax increase, and had the most difficult to make ends meet, as we know from all numbers about housing conditions. [[Up front.]] I firmly refuse that we are gradually weakening the government's income - power system that in the end will be devastated. On the contrary, we have a long - term program for the council, which shows that the remainder is growing and our capacity to reduce debt will increase as well, and our debt ratios are dropping. It will be difficult to find that land in Europe will be able to improve its debt as rapidly as we Iceland, and, of course, we should let people enjoy it, let the public enjoy it, and the job life after events as possible with a reduction in insurance fees, etc. No one is going to do anything else here but do better with those who have least in their hands, including those who have to rely on the insurance system.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u69	Madam President. I think we're also supposed to let our children enjoy it, I think we're supposed to share it with the future, and we can do that by investing in the interiors that are going down, so that work will not wait for future generations. We can do that by simply paying off a debt faster, so there are many options. The discussion cannot be over just because, of course, we should do well with ourselves at the present moment. We have a small responsibility, men today and the dominant generation in this country, for what happened here. I don't feel that it's quite time for us to start thinking about ourselves and leave the future completely behind. It is easy to list those who had the most serious tax increases during the last term. It was Iceland's wealthy men, 33/4 thousand of the richest families and individuals in the country who, of course, experienced a cheer - up tax raise. It was high income earners who had a full rise in the pace - changing income tax. And there were capitalists who had high capital incomes and the cost markets could not be used for much. They received twice as much tax money as they could earn. And the intermediate group, yes, taxes increased somewhat in the upper middle income group, but much less and the most money - rich individuals were totally spared tax increases. In fact, it was during the day that the tax burden dropped, rather than being the sole object, but to keep it at zero, so that it could be maintained. V.E.G. Of course, a minister of finance can enumerate various lawsuits that will bring about an excellent solution or significant improvement. But there are other things that are not very happy about. What about birthworm, which does not raise a single chicken? What about growth improvements as a setback? There are still people who feel a great deal of the payments, low - income people who would enjoy a little more interest in the interest of interest. [[The president calls.]] What about the elderly and the poor who do not receive comparable increases in their pensions and the lowest pay goes up?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u70	Madam President. In case of a moment. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's mask is not sure that he did well as a minister of finance, so he should read the last paragraph on page 5. 20 in this bill. I can't understand it any other way than that it is actually being agreed to the policy of that government, e.g. for growth improvements and protecting the most difficult ones, that is, being followed by them. In other words, people do not rely on what we did then, but there is something else. Hv. According to one U.S. senator, by 2017, the government has, in effect, cast aside incomes that are annually equivalent to 4,930,50 billion dollars. True, I think it's a little more than 50 billion. Then the question that we are faced with is, What will we want to do with this money? That's the big question. Perhaps it could be said that this could be spent to increase your share or to reduce taxes or to pay off debts. All three of these are the possibilities we can, in this ideal situation, that society is doing well, wondering how to spend this period. I would've liked to hear why. It's for a senator. Because it's money that the government doesn't take to himself but could have taken to heart, I believe that the ball of it should have been used for it. In his earlier talk, a senator commended his words in order to prepare for our children's welfare. I think that we would have used that kind of thing, if we'd stayed in the government, not all but the kind of thing, to pay off debt. [[The president calls.]] It seems to me that things are going way too slow with the programs that exist on the part of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u71	Madam President. I'm not far from saying that these are 50 billion, these are the names I put together, of course, just very loose, over the last two and a half years. This would be at least very quickly 50 billion because, as others are growing, these income stocks quickly produce more. Suppose we split it in three or four. We said that one-third or one-quarter of these we were going to put in an investment in the future directly, in the woods, in transportation, in communications, and in cores to run the health and education system, etc. Suppose we reduced the debt to one-third or one-quarter. We'll say: We'll just start right away, put one-quarter, if they're going up to the quarters, to start payment on future pension bonds. We have an unsumbed account of 430 billion, plus the B-instation Department of Pension Services, and the clock is ticking. If not right now, the government's financial and financial resources will begin to enter into that debt, I ask: When? Should we leave it for our children too? You could use some of this money for it. How responsible and social dignity it would be for us to deal with the challenge immediately and better, so that we did not leave it just for our children! Otherwise, there'll be 2530 billion hits the state when the funds run out of 2025. One quarter would have been quite ready to look at the objective tax reductions, e.g. to reduce the overall cost of insurance to a decline in unemployment. By doing this, we would be supporting human activities, innovation in the workplace, helping small companies who often have their biggest expenses in the form of pay expenses, etc.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u72	Madam President. I believe the Icelanders are in many respects in an ideal position. In the professional world, all of them are doing well, and they have done well; neither have they failed to cope with the crisis. That's why we got our way up like this. I believe that it matters to the future and to us that we are trying to settle our debt as quickly as possible. Unfortunately, the story shows that Iceland is experiencing economic lability, and when the crisis occurred, we were greatly helped that, although it had not been enough, we had been able to do so. That's why it's important. I think it's very interesting. A senator would say that a substantial portion of these incomes would be willing to use in direct taxation. He mentioned the insurance fee. I agree completely with him on that. There's got to be some kind of run in the mess. For the most part, the insurance price is on the verge of recovery from unemployment, and unemployment is on its way to a rapid decline. If you take e.g. The unemployment rate now, wondering how much it should have resulted in a huge decrease in insurance bills, I'll get a figure that's gonna release 10 billion. One feels that some part of this should be returned to the job, and it's preferably a det Løb, by permission of a president. I think it's a hell of a fault at the highest. The minister of finance and the government that there is no step in returning this as it may be said, if you want to say it rather gravely, it is essentially a robbery in relation to the law as if they set up the insurance bill. Other than that, I believe that it is very wrong for the government to give up all those earnings that would have been possible and to recall it to members of Congress that over a ten - year period, this is 500 billion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u73	Madam President. Somehow this may mean that we are just losing our concentration and discipline again. It's getting a little too comfortable and people have just forgotten so much. Suppose there's a strong backside in the world's economics, and many now predict this, perhaps within some two or three years, and they're coming to Iceland, and we're going to get in trouble here. Nothing would necessarily have to be because we had messed up something amazing ourselves. Would a financial minister who will then be in the sad position of having to try to rub income agencies back up because, suddenly, a significant income will disappear if the elephant suddenly goes out of the economy? Is there reason to create even such a possibility by going too unwisely and too lightly to reduce the total income of the state and the south, making all kinds of changes that, with one exception, have all agreed that they are being made at the expense of the state, all of them? I have also mentioned in this context the survival of the rural communities, which, unfortunately, are getting worse. Almost all of our large rural communities are producing worse results right now, and I want to look at the progress of the public as a whole. Is it reasonable, then, that the state is weakening in this way when you look over the line and see that your rural society may be having more problems and that it needs to strengthen your income - farms? For example, instead of the fact that the state's taxes dropped so much, it took some form of money into the countryside to make it better. There are plenty of choices in this, and I don't think they've been answered. [[The president calls.]] It's just a line forward because it's so fun to say you're paying taxes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u74	V.E.G. President. It is indeed true, as some senator said before, that the bandworm as the highest. The minister of finance now has often been worse than the one presented here. If we just go back to the year of disaster, which I frequently discuss here, and what the last government had to go through after the crash, cutdown, fiasco, etc., it's really impossible that such an alliance can be brought forth now, in which there are certain reasonable actions and other unfortunate goods and cause disputes, as we have heard here today. I'm just gonna skate through this bill right now to the 1st. and first stop the change in tax level to income tax from person to subject. Well, I don't have much to add to what's been said here by my party members in the United States on this. You're probably right. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's mask said earlier that the election brochures were actually being created for the next election. They are making brochures that can be said: We reduced the taxes on individuals. I'm sure this discussion will work well. But, as I say, it's one of the things being done because income is coming into the state's budget from the better - to - be - better business of the country. The government that is now working and has been taking two years also enjoys the fruits of what the last government needed to do when it laid the groundwork for the restoration of the land. That's why I don't agree with the highest standards. The prime minister said in his debate that all of this had happened since the end of April 2013 when the national government changed. The success of the Icelandic football team was actually out of this debate that the current government and government exchange had also been responsible for it, but it wasn't. With all the fun aside, it's like this has been reported to be changing the income tax system, taking out the middle step that's going to happen in the winter of election, just before election. This, of course, reduces the equation effect of this three - step tax system. Then we can talk about the amount of money that will be taken care of forever. What's going to happen? What will be cut down? For example, you might ask yourself, " Why? Because it is the art of the impossible to pay taxes and try to make the most of the peace in the land. ' That is why I ask: Is it right to lower these taxes now, at the same time that we let the birthworm remain unchanged, so that very many do not rely on taking the birthmark, just can't afford it? We're changing the growth process and cutting it down about 1.5 billion. This is said to be because the public's debt has been reduced. Yes, indeed it is, but at the same time the money is being taken, i.e. Cutting the interest rates down, and setting up a suitable challenge on housing, let's bear in mind that this is done by this cut. The elderly and the poor cannot get the benefits they receive from May 1 since. Because the government has decided to implement it for the next year, betraying these people for the benefits they are expected to receive also through contracts made against the labour market parties and laying the foundation of 300 you. K. The minimum rate after two or three years. Of course, elderly ones and poorer ones should enjoy the same as they do. It was always in my mind, under the terrible circumstances of attacking these social groups and reducing their benefits more and more, that this would have to be returned at the first opportunity. When the interests of the state's funds were to improve, this should come back on our first chance. Sadly, governments changed, and a new government wasn't interested in doing what I'm talking about. The locals were mentioned earlier. I have heard many independence fighters in Reykjavíkurburg and other rural areas for the bad results of their accounts in the past six months. Honorable President, in the analyses that have been published on the survival of your community, this recovery is only worse because of a pay raise. And when people talk about Reykjavík, I think they should look at another market not far from here, i.e. Kopavogsville to discuss this. Hence, it is a valid question and a validated view whether to meet the local communities. I'm saying as an old platoon manager and local government minister that it would just as well have imagined that the rural communities would get a bigger share from this package. Then let us keep one of these points in mind when I say that income flows into a wealth of money. The result of the job process is, fortunately, very good. We have information on that, including This morning at a meeting of the employment committee and various representatives in their organization, that there is an assessment of the fishing road at the present time. One reason is that oil prices are historically low in the world. In many tourists too, the wealth of money is rich. But keep in mind, too, that oil can rise, and tourists can stop coming. Some have mentioned, for example, that Sildin disappeared in 1967, and visitors may have stopped coming. This vision will not be as elegant as it is now. A respectable president. We're running out of time. I'll tell you in my own way about section 3.2, which is called "A raise on a rent market." It's an excellent step there. Why is it not fully assumed as directed by our peers? We've suggested that if a person rents out one apartment long-term, not for tourists, it'll be a perfect tax charge. Here's a little step in that direction. Why be doing this in the way this is supposed to have 400 million? K. influence on state funds to decrease? I believe that the point that we as officers have suggested is very important in connection with the lack of housing and the dreary high rent prices in the country. So sides could prepare other apartments in their house or have an apartment they rent to tourists, and they could rather benefit from renting it to the public for long periods of time and having a tax discount on it. I think such a procedure would be effective. I'm very impressed with the change that's being made on the transfer of merit tax and alcohol tax. I mentioned it here a year ago when changes in the value tax system were put here before the General Assembly. The bill discusses that word as a well-balanced variation and income decoding activity, etc. I am convinced that this change, which is done with proben, is not that it reduces the price of alcohol, but that it is being moved, raises the alcohol charge, while lowering the value tax to 11%, will contribute to a better return to government funds for drinking alcoholic beverages at restaurants. You see, it was very special that the wine had a 24% worth tax, but the wine had 11% and other items in it. It might just be too much of a mistake, let's call it, which button was pressed in this regard. I don't have time to go into any other business in the tourism business, and I understand a merit tax. In fact, there are some somewhat strange rules there, but I refer to my first talk on credit a year ago, on the basis of that, i.e. how you can run a travel agency, you can get 100. K. Pay from a tourist and can direct the payment of the payment paid, whether it is food, selling wine, or providing guidance. Some of the things I'm saying are without worth tax. The price of a centenarian tax update, paying 2.5% for a sign of inflation. No doubt it is true that this charge should hold its value. I'm asking the highest. Unfortunately, the secretary of finance, who is not in the hall but has been sitting here all day, whether it is not guaranteed that it is also raising the cost at the road structure for the maintenance and business of the road system in the country. This is an obligatory change in the population tax system because the last legal error was clearly made that a group-car vehicle company was allowed to omit taxation on behalf of the account of the account, including when people bought new cars, and they were dropping out in the way that worth extra taxes are paid when old cars are sold. This is also, I think, a very reasonable procedure. Here, there is an even more temporary extension to eliminate worth tax from electricity, hydrogen, or automobile purchases. It's totally unafraid. This operation was, if I recall correctly, done in the past government and has increased the number of environmentally friendly cars in the country and has, in particular, saved a lot of fuel imports that we always have to import and cost ourselves a lot of money that we don't have too much of. I say for the hurt, it shouldn't be for one year, I think it should be for a long time. I'm also asking the highest. Financial Minister: Is any other charge of these environmentally friendly cars that the government fund collects, or is this all being dropped? If not all is being dropped, I believe that we here at the Council are to take the step to the full and cancel all the costs of environmentally friendly cars, thereby heading for environmental transport as we have agreed here at the General Assembly. Child reforms and growth reforms don't have time to go through now, but they reiterate what I said earlier about going into the growth system and reducing interest rates because of a lower debt. It might also be asked: Would it not have been reasonable to keep the interest up and to meet those who still owe too much? The correction of the correction of those who received maximum debt correction, 4 million, and who owed 25 million when it was -- that's not far, considering inflation and otherwise, that benefit disappears; some say one year, others say two years. I agree with what this shows about the simplicity of the plunger charge, and I firmly believe it should be this way with the first apartment away from whether it is for its own use or not, it is difficult to accomplish it. A member of the Generals has made comments on this, so I don't speak up about an example. paritaprevir Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir's daughter mentioned earlier, if that's really how it is, I encourage a financial and business committee to go through that. At the same time, a head tax commission is entrusted with a ruling authority rather than with the Ministry of finance. That's unafraid. Work remuneration funds are actually breaking the value of laws on insurance. That will probably be less than 650 million in 2016. I do not hesitate to argue that the work-replacement funds are very effective, as was the effect of a workforce on the cooperation of the labour market. The cost of SEC business. Of course, the financial system is supposed to pay for that business. I don't think it's right to make a contribution to an agent's debt. I know an example of the people who have gone through that it is doing a really good job and that is helping families much more than was done by the government's action in debt. I'm here at the end of a respectable president, to welcome the government to step forward and to stand better on the deal with the National Church, an old contract that would have to be cut like the rest of the times. Here is the first step to return and pay off what they have under contract, not to give by a respectable president, whether for the business of churches, maintenance, or oversight of their churches. It's just things that should be okay. The people have given their word about the State Church in a constitution, and we are to fulfill the agreement made there. Here is the first step toward returning to the church something that was taken from her in the collapse, and I especially welcome it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u75	Madam President. V.E.G. The minister of finance can't complain about his share. Here one of the major Cardinals of the United Nations has given a talk that, on the other hand, was a document and praised by many changes in the bill. I agree with that as a matter of course. A senator said that the changes in alcohol and its equipment were made. But I'll do it. A senator understands - and I say this in view that he is an aptised sobriety at least on tobacco - this is the result of a real decline in tobacco pay? Only in terms of a 2.5% price change is brought up, but the terms of a budget bill are 3%, and so are many who predict much more price change. What does it say? A senator on this?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u76	V.E.G. President. The person here asks tobacco only if it is a tobacco problem. So a senator looks at him. But there's another arm. I had not realized this loss of experience with the price of tobacco, the 2.5%. I'm only saying for a moment: Isn't it that in the case of the Economic and Business Committee it's gonna be 2.5% of the information we have on inflation before we agree with it before Christmas? At any rate, I do not agree that we are, in effect, reducing the price of alcohol and tobacco, that is to be raised - and that includes the nasal tobacco that greatly increased during the last human government. A senator sat in and contributed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u77	It was Steingrímur's fault.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u78	But there's another arm. But as for this crisis or increase, I'd like to dismiss it to the secretary of finance and that he would answer whether it is the case or whether this figure will change in the economic and business practices of the Commission.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u79	Madam President. I especially drew the senator's attention, because he has always been at the tip of those who have promoted the wars of public health. At least this little part of the bill works against it. I'm counting on it. A senator, like everyone else in this room, who wants to get public health's viewpoints involved with me in changing them just as I know it. paritaprevir The Ögmundur of Jónasson will give a moving talk on the following. The rest is so clear, I agree. A member of the council that it can at least be called one of the misdemeanors of the last government she did regarding the goods she had. A senator mentioned here, but because I am counted among his consumers, I sat and thundered and kept silent in the government while it was still there. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon raised the cost of that product, so that he overpowered and was not protected in that matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u80	V.E.G. President. The beginning is countering. The senator was from what I was talking about here, i.e. a change in the value tax system for alcohol and restaurants. As I said in my speech, and said a year ago, it is definitely a change because it will improve efficiency - I can't remember exactly which beautiful words are used in the bill, about the time of tax release. I hope it just gets through, and there's no reason to think otherwise. It's a system modification that has existed for many years, it would be wise to do but it's finally done, as you read on the bill, because a committee was appointed to do this and suggested this. But with regard to the public health and indeed, i.e. The fact that alcohol and tobacco abuse do not actually reduce the rate of inflation, I reiterate what I said earlier, and I'm a cognizant. For this matter, the senator: Yes, we should make it rise according to prices so that it keeps its real value but does not decline.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u81	Madam President. The centennial fees didn't raise anything this year. We made it up to this year's stockholders to do what we could to keep up with the increase in prices and had all the increases in centenarians at zero in 2015. The next year, we are increasing by 2.5%, as we had discussed in the 2013 declaration, with a considerable discussion that if the State was ever going to separate themselves from the inflation of the next year, the state would in itself be promoting the survival of inflations. A policy was then set for the season that we would not raise these charges by more than 2.5%. Only about the electric cars. I can agree with that with what. A senator says it's a good reason to create motivation, at least temporarily, to open up the market here for electric cars, environmentally friendly cars, so that the average public can see the benefits of using them and we can get experience using them here in our situation. However, the big context needs to be examined, asking: If everyone drives electrical vehicles, how will we finance the share that comes through the transport costs? Are we going to cut off this cost just from our cars in general, or are we going to get it somehow different? Not to be overlooked is the fact that in many cases we are buying much more expensive cars, sending more currency to take these vehicles abroad because their cost of living is still far beyond what happens with other vehicles. As you look at the fuel savings, you need to keep in mind that currency goes out, and that's why I think it's important that we go over these systems as a whole. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But I agree that it is possible to increase the number of electric cars in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u82	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. The secretary of the budget for his response to the centennial charges and the raise was 2.5%. On the other hand, is there a 2.5% holy number that is stuck, or will it change to the rhythm of an inflation? Then I do not mean that the elevations announced for 2016 should be so that they fuel inflation, for it certainly should not be like that of the growing minimum of the pensions could fuel higher interest. V.E.G. A minister answered me with the electric cars, about the temporary solution which is an extension of the old law for about a year. There are certainly benefits. As I said before, we agreed here at the beginning of the last terms of making the transport system environmentally friendly, changing it, changing energy sources and stuff. That's what's going on. V.E.G. The secretary of finance speaks of these cars being more expensive, making them more money out of the country when they are being bought than other cars. This may be the case, but this ratio is to reduce very much at the present time. They are starting to come into the country and are making cars that are much less expensive than they were at first. All predictions are made, and these vehicles are becoming less available and less expensive with their batteries. I've always felt that the electric cars are what's going to happen here. V.E.G. A minister gave the example I have repeatedly mentioned here in a talk chair, i.e. how to pay in Vega for use on the road system of these cars. My answer is the same as I had when I was a travel minister: it is to be done by changing the currency method so that all cars will be equipped with a set device, whether GPS or anything else, where they will be paid for where they drive, and so in fact, all the cars will be read from. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u83	Madam President. It is true that the cost of making these vehicles falls very quickly. This can present a great opportunity for us. It does not have to be too much of a problem as to how much savings it could get for us if it went on and people stopped importing fossil fuels to the extent it has been done, except for the environmental impacts that would get them like a bonus or a bonus. There are no doubt many different ways to ensure these vehicles'contribution to the transportation system. That is in this way, it may primarily be just a technical solution. What I have in mind right now, as I mentioned in my background address, is that we are wondering only about the experiences of the last changes in these combined charges. Then I mention from automobile charge to coal charge, to oil markets, and then to other fuels. There are certain motivations that we built into these systems to achieve specific goals. As people know, there is sound evidence to indicate that in certain cases the price will be paid, whether for electric vehicles or for other types of automobiles. Cabs have benefited from this, driving instructors, and disabled persons in certain cases, etc. I believe it is right to review the experience of the present system and to examine the purpose of the evolution we are discussing here and ask ourselves, " Can I better reach our goals? ' The rentals are inside. We're cutting discounts there. I would like to ask, then, could we be able to make room for otherwise reducing our defenses?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u84	V.E.G. President. Now I just have to admit that I wasn't there when I was at the highest level. The minister gave his speech with this bill and his discussion of the environmentally friendly cars opposed the payment of a government fund for their use. I have, as I said before, talked about this many times. There's a hole in the system. We at the Council will not let this happen and answer the questions that need to be answered. I don't think that's fair. We are to answer these questions because people are supposed to know when they're deciding whether they're going to buy one car or another, how much these cars are paid in our common budget to maintain and build up the road system in our country. It's not fair for two people to drive, let's say north to Akureyri and a standard jeep, a diesel truck, to destroy 25 thoust oil. K. - I guess that's 15 of you. K. By or by 17,500, which flows into the state fund? - and another person, driving behind that car or, after an incident, on an electrical vehicle, who pays nothing for a government account in the road system, both cars break it down equally. I'm happy that the Minister of finance has been discussing this because we, who are at the General Assembly and all political groups who are delighted to increase the number of eco-friendly cars in the national motor fleet, must answer sooner than later. I reiterate what I said earlier: I've been thinking for a long time that we're supposed to record the technology that's being cleared up and that has become standard equipment on various new cars, i.e. Certain blocks measuring where the cars go, where they drive, etc., and it's paid by. If you drive through a pass-by-the-pass tunnel, you pay for it. There was always a barrier to personal protection, but in the large world, the big business society called the European Union has ended this work and is at peace with it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u85	Madam President. We here discuss various basic financial laws, and I like others who have held speeches here today are very critical of the social changes presented here. I don't think they're a benefit for low-payers or middle-temperors like the highest. The minister of finance has been very rigid. If so, I am not merely looking at the numbers of crowns that appear on page 20. 12 on the bill, where a list is what each earner will be allowed to fall because it does not tell the whole story. We have to watch this in the overall context. For example, when making major changes in the welfare system, when increasing the value of taxes on food, resulting in increased expenses, and when the public in the country must increasingly work out things that previously fell under conditional limits, the state is actually reaching this decline in an indirect way. I would've wanted to see that with a income tax, people in the country were being equaled. I think there's a fake out there. It is inconceivable among right men to flaunt tax reductions in elections, and surely right men are enforcing their campaigns in this way. Nothing gets out of the way. Of course, we who consider themselves to be left-handed cannot expect that right men will be so impressed by our language that they will be left-handed and change their tax policy, that's not so good. But for the public in the country, people have to look to it - and I think it's happening to a far greater extent than it used to be - and open their eyes to what they get for their taxes, follow, to put themselves in improved roadways, in a powerful health system, in a powerful educational system, etc. According to recent surveys, the Icelanders would like to pay taxes if, for example, they returned to the health system. People are no longer shy about answering them in polls because they see that the welfare system is being weakened and that they are drawing their feet from expanding the interiors of the country. It is dangerous, and they are being forwarded a check to our children, as mentioned earlier. I also ask: Is it good that economic growth is dragged forward by personal consumption, as appears to be? It is also of concern that inflation employers for the next year are 4.5 percent. Today, in the 12 month period, inflation is 2.2%. What is the response of the government to these predictions presented in a follow-up to the bill? I'd like to know what plans are available to prevent inflation that seems to be on the rise. There are certainly certain signs of high - risk expansion now, especially here in the capital area. Economics have been said that when it comes to the private sector, it holds hands in the public sector and vice versa. This has over the years been a great blow in the country. For what? Because in a so - called expansion, which can be both bad or good depending on what is underlying, it seems that there is a real expansion in the country and that there is no value behind it. As shown in the budget bill, the aspect that has begun in the capital area seems to be maintained on public projects in the country. Then I'm talking about internal development, such as transport, health, and edification, and high school, all over the country. There is a cutback on student values, cut down both the parish and the local community plan, and see that one more trip is due to follow. The collapse may have been different from that of the capital area because it could never reach many settlements in the country. However, when it is beginning to develop in the capital area, all new projects in the country, such as in the construction of communication, are held in the hands of telecommunications of the part of the country that remains, it has become a great drag for the region. Little wonder that local authorities who control rural areas in the less populated areas are deeply concerned and do not know what is about to turn up and down to this blessed government, which shows that this year's government fund could deliver up to 18 billion on income evasion. Travel service has been growing tremendously, but it is suggested that only 149 million. K. I'm going to the tourist position fund. In spring, there were 850 million. K. In this fund, and it sounds like they're complaining about not walking fast enough to get that money out. But what causes it? Hence, this great troublemaker, which has been since the administration, is now under way. It does not conclude how to finance this sector and build infrastructure in the country of tourism, find no way to finance it, sludge the tourist markets by hand, and those who put up 50% of their time will not know what they have in their hands to prepare and go into planning and planning. It is very serious, when the tourism service has declared that she is very concerned about this delay in the entire development of public infrastructure, that this is at the same time cutting down the government income institutions in various mails over 50 billion during the over two years that have passed since the government came into power. This was shown in the talk of the highest. The week when a financial minister discussed the reduction to 1.5 billion, reminds me, would be very normal because the government had set in motion a tax charge and subsidies on the mortgage, about 20 billion a year. But are these the same people that are on the move? I don't think so. Of course, tax recovery will benefit many, but it will benefit better from those who have a chance to save, those who make more money. We also know that the subsidies of the mortgage have gone very unremarkably to those involved. I wanted to see a much more direct approach to low - paying and middle - income workers, more often than to young people who are getting their feet in place, whether in rented homes or by buying housing. When the State's execution improves as it is indeed - and of course it can be done not only thanks to the current government but, above all, to the former government, although I can quite control the current government of warming up with it as well, hopefully something has also been done right with her - it's to use that revenue to build the wood up and to extend the curve to those who had to be cut off, such as the elderly and the microchips and use the rest also to pay off the debt of state funds so that we're not spending too much of the money every year in terms of interest. It's like it is. The government continues to take over its head, driving a hard right course. I was amazed at what happened by it. paritaprevir Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir's daughter earlier that she had grown tired of some compromise, that there was enough of such things, and men should just speak for their course exactly, and run it, the course to be driven here. I'll just ask myself, " What can be the blessing of the forward party say? ' Is he joined by the Independence Party, or is he just on the other side? Or is it going to be a trade-in, this year's budget of the Independence Party, and next year it's the bill of the Agency? When two categories are in control, you'd think there'd be some compromise, unless there's been a short gap between these categories in policy that it's just perfunctory, that the policy is just the same. I now heard some things appear at the spring party of candidates who don't quite rhyme with the budget bill. But at the end of the insurance bill, I'll be absolutely sure it's very important to reduce it. Today, it is 2% higher than it was before a crash, and there has been a promise of a reduction in insurance costs, it will pay for the company to be able to further meet the pay raise and increase staff. I fully support the reduction of insurance costs and the application of government income will be used systematically to support those who have less pay and who need it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u86	V.E.G. President. It's the same with you. A senator and other members of her class and in the government opposition that they have a burden on taxes. I don't remember the time, now that I've become a relatively grown man, that at some point left men had conditions to lower taxes, I never remember that. [[The point is, it's because you haven't been watching.]] - Yes, I've been watching. I never remember it being a condition, and I never remember wanting it. I experience it so that the political wing that this blessed cake can never be reduced, it's just a question of how much government takes of it. That's why people talk about us giving up money, throwing it away, giving it away. No one is wondering: Wait, by reducing taxes, can it not lead to more money for government funds to put into this welfare business, that there will be some investment? They know that when a government is in power like the government now, they can take risks and invest, they know that taxes won't just be raised because we have to do something. This is what matters. This isn't some excel document that's just unchangeable size. It's just a question of how much we have to take and how much we want to take. That's what we need to do. [[Forecast before a collapse, how did it end?]] That's it. - Government funds increased steadily, that's what happened. I can assure you that there will be no more money to improve the cost of disability and the elderly welfare services, by raising taxes constantly. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u87	A respectable president. It is this eternal bread loaf theory that the right humans always have, as the Lord's Prayer always does. It's a little fun to think that if we really lower the taxes on those with high incomes, there'll always be some pieces of bread falling apart and dying into the society that's getting used to everyone. The reality isn't like that. The reality is that if we're going to live through one piece of society with everything we want and make a requirement for it - it's not like the requirement to have a powerful health system, education system, road transport, and all this infrastructure that we want to see in our modern society reduced, the demands exist, including the right men, also for the right men who regret every cent they put in taxes. It's just like the little yellow chicken, someone has to bake the bread, you can't just eat the cake.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u88	No one's talking about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u89	The bread must be baked, and it needs to be put in place, and all must add to it for material reasons. Is it not that way if everyone is going to eat the bread? Right men must begin to understand that it is a good society in which everyone contributes to the ministry that we all want and talk about being so self - righteous. The attitude is beginning to change with these things, even among many right men abroad. There is no good economic system where taxes are low and inequated in society. It is not economic good for the future that those with a lower salary actually have more money than those with a higher salary. This has been the case with written literature, a respected magazine has published it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u90	V.E.G. President. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator must have completely misunderstood me. Of course, I'm not talking about people not participating in social costs. I want everybody to pay taxes. Of course, it's not that everyone should contribute to society, but it's not that there's an automatic increase in income to take advantage of the welfare issues we all want by taxing indefinitely, taxing as much as possible because we always need more. No matter how high the taxes were here, there are suggestions for something more because we always have to do something more. But this does not increase the income and has not done, for there are, of course, limits to what it is worth to have taxes high. A decision to increase taxes - such decisions have an effect. It affects investments, all uncertainty is important. To bake bread, what we must do is that someone wants to make something valuable. No one wants to make value if he can't have a solid, simple tax system, that he had any idea of what was going to happen in time. This is important. I'm not talking about paying taxes, and I really hate it when people get away from it. We all need to be involved. But we differ in the best way to increase the income of the money, thus increasing the well - being of a private person, and also the possibility that even in ways other than in direct taxes, a private person may have a chance to do so. Of course, it is always those who are the biggest earners who pay the highest taxes, that is, the nature of the matter, according to our ratio.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u91	Madam President. I don't feel that our community now is there where we can't afford money to finance a transport program, a communication plan, the Land Hospital, to name something. [[Up front.]] If a person says that there is never a time to lower his taxes, is there a goal in itself that life will be much better? Who, then, is to pay from their own pocket for all the services in the United States regarding health care, education, and so forth? Of course the right men want it. How do they react when they may be able to buy ahead of themselves, making use of health care, and so forth? [[Up front.]] Perhaps it's worse when it comes to making a road for some of the rich people in the country, but some people want to have all the way on their own and men just a city. It's nice to get past what you're doing. A senator with no masking right. [[Up front.]] It's just the direction you're supposed to represent in that category every day because following just collapses down and down. The rest of us should be much more diligent in speaking of what we use the taxes; to build a powerful, fair, and just society in which people can have access to services and everything we want society to offer, regardless of their economic status and habitats. I want to live in such a community, and I don't give much for some loafing theories at the Independence Party that have now failed to demonstrate themselves here to have worked. Who fucked up here, and everything went crazy in 2008? Was there any people in the country that paid for it? No, it was the financial system and the government that had no supervision of them incorrigibly, and government funds were prepared to accept all of it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u92	A respectable president. I'm not going to make many words on how to build a budget bill, but my offer to help with its installation, possibly next year, still standing, and I sincerely hope to the highest level. The secretary of finance will accept it in one year, so that we may receive an overview of material in this blessed budget. For one thing, I'd like to put a question mark on changing tax steps. The tax steps are to be moved down to two, only to lower tax steps and higher tax steps. Similarly, tax taxes are being reduced, while the higher levels are increasing. Of course, this means raising taxes, not right, tops. Secretary of finance? Isn't this really an increase in tax, since we have more in the higher level? We are naturally talking about increased income, which is, in effect, an increase in taxes. Even though some percentages are being lowered, that does not necessarily mean that there is a real tax increase. This is a particularly dangerous step, in my opinion, in view of the changes in collective agreements made to doctors and nurses. Will this real tax increase, as I'd like to call it, take all the changes in the salary of this important community staff directly back? How will this affect you? Now I'm especially celebrating customs, but it's clear that the most important products are being held outside these actions, i.e. Agricultural products and other foods. There's got to be a lot of pressure to take these tolls off at groceries. Everyone should be aware that this is a special protection policy for Icelandic farmers and Icelandic agriculture. So I agree with what. paritaprevir Ragnheiður's daughter, Ríkharðsdóttir, says that we need to take this whole agricultural debate together, whether we want to protect the Icelandic agriculture and why we want to do it. Are we as a nation willing to pay higher prices for groceries in order to protect Icelandic agriculture? Is it really possible to go some other way to promote innovation in Icelandic agriculture? I think this question is very important to consider and review. I also find it very interesting to see the progress toward the National Church rising by less than 73 million, as well as the high costs of the parish. Mr President, I agree again. paritaprevir Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir says that the work must begin to be considered in this contract of state and church. Actually, we've been paying for the churches for over a century. This arrangement is marvelously out - of - date in the international context, the tax of people in this religion. I suggest we take all these matters for a full analysis, and we take care of it. Religion must be chosen for itself, and religion must decide for itself what social fees it collects and how. For example, if the Ásbjörg Society wants to build a temple, members of the community must share responsibility for it and increase their social expenses during its construction. Of course, the same should apply to the State Church. Third, which I would love to speak to the highest. The secretary of finance is being suggested in the bill to raise rent-a-created income-marks. That's in my opinion a very good step, very necessary step. It should be explained, however, that long - term rentes are not temporary rent to tourists. It is important to ensure that this procedure is actually in behalf of tenants in the general labour market, where there is a great competition for an apartment home, especially in the capital area. Remuneration of rent markets is an enormously important subject here. I would like to see more reforms for tenants. Many would like to choose a lease. Thus, more can be done to control only poverty or inadequacy. The reason why people have chosen to be in a tenet is not necessarily poverty or a lack of resources but simply because they do not want a house. There may be an elephantlike reason. The special policy is nothing faultless. She's really mean if she's supposed to be the only option. The special policy is not even a real option for people like me who are just out of school, with no possessions or money at the end of it. I know a lot of people who prefer to be in rent. It may include freedom for people, but only if the environment is in order and the choices are real. The tenure options need to be discussed, not just on the basis of the social system or as some emergency path for poor people, but on the most broad ground.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u93	Madam President. I thank you for this fine talk that brings up several important points on the bill. First of these tax changes in the bill should be taken into account, although the argument between the lower end of the income and the upper level changes, i.e. ... they'llgo to the highest percentage of 700 you've got. K. ... andnotmorethan830you. K. As it is today, the person who has the right to over 700 you have. K. benefit from the tax loss up to 700 ys. K. and thus have suffered a lower tax burden. And it is safe to say that the change does not increase taxes on anyone. Rather, the taxes are all being dropped. Most of the taxes decline in the intermediate groups. I'm going to say briefly about the church proposal that they are in agreement with these products that were made and should in itself not be surprised unless you want to speak for prior negotiations. In the tenure market, I rejoice that the rent - rent payments are handled well, and I want to answer that question about long - term renting. They're calling for more options. I'm telling you, this is a very tricky group of subjects. You need to be careful that governments do not all work directly in the pocket of the landlords, and you need to look to what has proved to be well in other areas, to reduce construction costs, to provide sufficient supplies for such areas. Most important, the biggest interest in tenants, such as others who want to make housing, is reducing the interest rate in the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u94	I'd like to thank the secretary of finance for a clear answer. I have to disagree with the idea of having those two tax steps. I think it might be better to have more tax steps and have less space between them, such as. is done in Norway. It seems that people are not affected in some way; they have proved to be good at having more tax steps than one. I really like it when it comes to rent care that this is done long-term, and I hope it becomes very clear in the law that it is a home, not to rent to tourists, which is against other discussions. I also agree with the secretary of finance that we need to think about the rent market and think about the bigger context, and especially the location of houses, e.g. for college students. There's nothing to throw them halfway up in Who's make and expect them to buy cars. It would have been good to see anything else from the secretary of finance on the status of students, etc., especially at the university.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u95	Madam President. I appreciate those tips. This bill is large, it's very chemical, and maybe it's complicated to review all the details. I had a lot to do with it in my story talk. I'm just going to add the tenet discussion. I agree with what. A member of the council that it is very desirable for people to have a real choice as to how to manage their living arrangements. However, I feel that there is especially much work to be done by the government to allow young people to have their own housing, and I am especially referring to the fact that in countries where their own housing has become the preferred option for people over their working years, it is evident that home financial status will be much better at the end of employment. In countries where there has been a deep, general tenet, such as. In Germany, there are far too many who enter the pension years after renting for decades, with low self - worth status. It seems that if people use their additional budget, if someone is formed from a rented market rather than is paying interest because of housing, or if they work hard to obtain a down payment in a home, they may not be used as an additional range of savings. Since housing prices tend to increase with economic growth over time, an enormous amount of property has generally been generated by those who have selected, as part of their long - term savings. I feel that this is an essential part of each country's discussion of housing policy and is one of the reasons that I believe that governments should do what they can at any given time to pay for people to cover their heads and have their own housing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u96	I want to thank you for the good discussion that takes place here. I think it's very interesting how to get to the top. A minister of finance speaks of how good it is to have his own house - the natural dream of many people. But how? How should young people get through payment? I can't see myself through payment on the next few days, despite being on a blessed election, simply because of the tremendous demands of both an apartment and a financial status. Young people of my generation, who were 18 in 2008, are afraid to borrow in Iceland simply because their consumer protection on loans is so terrible, the interest rates are not good enough, the dollar isn't constant enough to be wise to be investing in an apartment, that's insurance and all that. It's just that many of my generation have no intention of spending their money on property in Iceland. There seems to be no acceptable alternative. There is something that needs to be handled, and there is a greater need to be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u97	Madam President. This has been an informative, refreshing discussion that has often occurred here today. I'm going to go back to the highest. Secretary of finance broke the thread earlier. I agree with him that we should do what we can to allow people to have a roof over their heads, and I believe it is actually one of the blackest spots in our community how this development has been about the possibility of it. However, I must remind him of his own ideologies, which is actually mine, i.e. the choice must be made. It is true that some, especially in the early part of their life, choose simply to be renters, i.e. renting homes instead of building up the challenges of getting their own money so that they can settle into an apartment. This seems to me to have increased in recent years because people's mobility is much greater, people choose a life - style that involves moving not just between parts of the country but mostly in several countries. It may be the least of these days when such birds begin to think about them. But since men have to have a choice, I feel that it is very important that this is more organized on the part of the government, an developed tenet that makes it a real choice for people to act on it. V.E.G. A minister mentioned the case in Germany and that in the developed tenet, which is, in fact, similar to those in many parts of the North, the situation would arise that when men arrived in the pension age, they were suddenly confronted with a lack of money to pursue their lifestyle in line with what they might prefer. But I have not seen this as a problem in Germany, even less in Sweden, where the rent market is highly developed. This is where word exchange took place between the two. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir and former curator of the Legal Guild, huh? paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son, who I thought, basically includes the core in the sense of why we live in a good society, living in a good community. I told earlier today that I thought Iceland was, whatever they say, and that they found, a very good community. This is most important because over the years different ideas have been developed, and this is in the strength of those whom men have weighed with reason. Ideas have competed, political groups have competed, and often in many times this conflict has been harsh, but together it has led to a conclusion that makes our society a better society than many others. And if you look at politics in Iceland and in other countries, how much more important the politics in this country have been, how hard and clearer the lines of conflict have been. And I wondered if it helped, especially in earlier years, to reach the point of creating a society in which things were really okay. I said here in the past society would be good, but we've heard it here today as often as before, so much is wrong. Hv. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Jr., pointed out that the health system is not okay at all. It may be far from what we want to have, but the health system in Iceland is like this, even though it's constantly being spoken down, if someone in these sales wants to get into some sort of major trauma, it's as good for them to be in Iceland. The fact is, despite the many defects in the health system, it is no better to suffer a shock than in its shelter. It's just a fact. These are statistical facts that remain unchanged after a crash, and without me going far into that discussion, it is still that when you talk about fleeing the health sector in Iceland, you have to look for ways that after the last agreements, the shares of those working there or at least had to negotiate their terms. It is appropriate to review when talking about the high average age of doctors and the threat that in 2004 there were almost as many places in the Land Hospital as in medical care and today as the average age was exactly the same, just so there is the situation. Indeed, Páll the Matthíasson of Matthua, president of the Land Hospital, said that last year the hospital had fallen into a ward because of the heavy work dispute there. Let us hope that this will be no more, though there may be some evidence that this is not the case. This is necessary because there has been a measure of reconciliation about how we have divided our income and in Iceland, sharing has been more common than around the world. I don't know who the stand was during economic discussions with the Police Department at the time. paritaprevir Brigs Níelsson's son was president there, but he thought that the good boy and clone would come here and perform what is called either voodoo economics or the bread crumbs theory. She did make a certain giant under President Ronald Reagan of the United States, but he left the United States in debt and needed a democrat to save it, and I'm not going to go into that any further. We always need to find the right balance between the tax system and the spending, which is exactly what I agreed with. paritaprevir The Brynjar of Níelsson's son in his sudden attack against the socialist ideals before him when he said that the initiative and action could be reduced with too much taxation. But Iceland is far from there, and because of the highest. The secretary of finance refers to it over and over again, when he is brought up with a measure of guilt over what he is doing, that we who sat down in the last government had removed all the taxes, to recall that the OECD assessment showed that we were somewhere in the middle of the tax ladder. Yet, we were a community that had suffered severe trauma. Of course, the Supreme Court is right. A minister that, under those circumstances, could only raise taxes and pinch the combination anywhere and sometimes be cut into bones and sometimes into bones - the only option that was in that situation. And already the highest. The secretary of finance comes and says: "We're just returning the taxes set up in the time of the last government - well, sire faithful, what else were men to do? There was no choice. Yet, all were careful to make sure that the improved system, which was also cut, was changed so that it protected the most efficient and the worst. That was why I loved to read it on page 19. 20 In this bill, this series reviews the changes made in recent times. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon of the Ministry of Financial Affairs, which literally says, by the permission of the president, was also directed to families with less income and less possessions. It just so happens that if you finish reading this sentence, you'll find that it's the highest. The minister of finance agrees with this desirable thing to the point that he does not intend to change the provisional regulations that would extend it until the highest degree. Department of Social Affairs has provided a new housing system. In other words, I read out of this judgment at the present time. Secretary of finance that he had considered this virtue to be right in his time. Of course, in this conversation that I find unusual in substance, people have tried to answer these questions: How should we make the state's income, and how should we destroy it? When I said the highest. A financial minister would have committed a bit of a fine, that's because I think he's a careful minister of finance. And I put a question mark in his determination to plan on reducing income taxes under these circumstances and not just now, he did that last year, and he announced that when that shrinking cycle was over, he would have dropped income taxes by 3.3%. And, of course, it's extremely fun for us to have a good time. A senator and former president of the Department of Justice to get $3000 in the pocket each month, and a lot of people will be grateful to the government, but that doesn't change the fact that this is done in the face of the Navy that it is not advisable. This is being done in the face of the fact that even the executive director of the Association of Employment feels that this is not advisable. And what brings this caution to these two institutions, SA and the Federal Bank? Yes, that is the future. And the future is as if it has been drawn up all the streets since mid - 2010 when the current economic growth began that it has been a economy, so to speak, on the same line as it will continue. He's probably about 5% today. But next year, a major project to begin next year - in fact, just to inform my former president of the law - is all the projects that were done in the past government. You see no new projects on a schedule that was not drawn up. If you put them together, they're going to hit out of Kaldrum's surgery, with the energy it takes to drive them. That was exactly what happened at the time when a man attacked Kaldrum's operation and energy activation that was associated with it and reduced the number of taxes at the same time, that was the reason for the coal cycle. paritaprevir Brynjar the son of Níelsson, at least in part, to the mind of the member of the Allied Research Committee called these two, these mixtures, this was the toxic cocktail and the mortgage that led to the 2008 position. We must not forget this. That is what we need to keep in mind. That's what encouraged me. What should we do with the money that may have been available and could have existed if the government had used all its means? One said the highest. Ministers I agree with, in fact, many things I completely agreed with, but one particular thing: The task is to reduce debt. It can be read from the report that the government, in effect, is reducing taxes or has done so in its own career something on a yearly basis between 40 billion and 50 billion. They will surely beat their breasts and say, "We are good." But this is 500 billion in ten years. This money could have been used to reduce the debt of the State, to prepare us for the future, to prepare us for possible traumas that may not have to be our fault but, rather, because of world changes. I'll mention it because I agree with the highest degree. Secretary of finance to the project is to reduce debt, but I'm not sure that he is totally using the right means to do so. Then, of course, I'm saying that I don't know exactly how to use the money that comes into the state fund because of the great stability, because I'm not completely aware of it. It may well be that it changes this position, but now I feel that we should have tried to make more money to reduce debt. Like this at the end of the blue, I was going to do a lot of work on the toll drop, but it may get counter-clockwise, but I still want to say that I'm thinking that it's the highest. Secretary of finance doing the right thing. I support these actions, and I could support it further. It is not often that I believe that the Ministry of finance is lacking, but I am concerned that the government's employees and government officials have fully appreciated the increased income of a GDP that will run into the state funds when shops return to the country because these changes make it more competitive, e.g. In things like shoes. In fact, part of this store will create opportunities for the cheapest commercial ventures in Europe. I am convinced that there will be a very large increase in this, and it may take a long way to counter what a person calls a loss in customs. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u98	V.E.G. President. Of course, I can agree with many things. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson said, and I didn't hear any better than he was in the main points very comfortable with this financial bill and here I followed the secretary of finance on any rope or whatever. [[No.]] But there was one thing I noticed when he quoted the labour market party, which did not consider it advisable to lower taxes. Have you not forgotten, then, that this was really a very important requirement for negotiations to be made payable on the end of international incomeers? I think the workforce's members should take a look at themselves that asked for, or force, promotions that are not the basis for which they will make the government that is now very difficult for us to lose, and that is, of course, our biggest concern. Human efforts are far superior, and with what result? Of course, it is growing that reduces the interest of many people, an increasing inflation that reduces the value of many. It would have been easier to lower the taxes a little bit more and to have much less pay, since that would have been better for the future. Of course, when we consider how much we should take, we need to consider the situation. And what would it take to get a company to invest? It is a stable tax environment, no whims, not too high taxes, and preferably lower, especially when there were little investments when taxes were raised.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u99	Madam President. I believe it has, for example. I was wrong at the highest level. Government to lower the triple price for hunting license. This was held by members of the council or party members at the moment. A senator before he went to the council to plan as high as possible. A government in that matter would have passed the way of the fishing road. However, they were now driven through with the result that despite what one nice developer called a hanging chair around the neck of the fishing industry, the best years of the fishing industry and the fishing road have ever enjoyed were followed by a better year. In other words, that tax recovery, which is of course by nature, at least As I look at it, different from the usual income tax returns, it did not seem to have prevented their investments. Hv. A senator needs to know that I agree that excessive tax recovery and excessive income taxation can result in both the loss of initiatives and the loss of investments, but we are so far apart from the tax environment in Iceland that the last government left after it can ever work out. A senator now. Are not investments more than any other source of information in articles such as this? travel service? It's just like whisk. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter said earlier today, forgetting to work together when talking about investments in the workplace, they always forget that there are small investments that will be major in the articles that do not fit into the financial system. [[The president calls.]] In other words, I'm underlining that I think we're far from being at the point where we're pushing individuals or businesses away from putting our efforts into action.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u100	V.E.G. President. I want less of it. A senator assumes that the last government and government post now wanted to raise taxes both in travel and in the production much more than was done. We were just about to give up our money. What would have happened in many parts of the country would have been the proposals of government opposition when it was in the government? I'm not sure the design would then be so powerful as it is today. Also, it may not have happened with the tourism, that it was as powerful as it is today. That's a goal of growth. And we can't always see the tip of growth say, "We're going to have to go up on spells. " This can have a very bad effect, and I disagree with each other. A senator says taxes aren't very high here. They're just a little high, especially in middle pickers. The intermediate class is really very weak and has been that for a very long time before collapse. Hv. A senator was talking about the collapse just as if it were because an investor had been in Kálánna's disease and so on, I think that's overhistory. Of course, there was financial collapse worldwide. We were just harder to deal with. But don't forget one thing. A senator, that governments who had been before, who said at the time of collapse and before, had paid up almost entirely the debt of state funds, which made it possible for us to go to a real restoration. We must not forget, it may be important that, then, people had used the added income in the environment of low taxes to pay off the debt of state funds. This was of utmost importance in the restoration of the Icelandic economy.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u101	Madam President. I was now sitting in one of the governments, and not just that, engaged over and over in discussions in the government on whether to use the leftovers and funds of state, which then would be piled up in the Federal Bank to pay off the debt of society. Today, it may seem funny that the situation was just before a crash, but this was the case. What is the rule that taxes have become too high? Counts 'em out. The senator really taxes the company, e.g. that a corporate income tax is high? He is relatively low here in view of various other countries around us.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u102	He's just normal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u103	The insurance money's high, it's very high, I just agree with it. That's what a senator does. [[Yeah.]] But I've also said here before today that I believe that it is mistakenly being taken, on the grounds of law, 10 billion minimum, maybe 12 billion now, of the companies. To survive the race for what? Unemployment that's hardly there. We know that next year, and we're making plans and budgets for next year, that it's gonna be down to 2.7How3% and it's in the modern community just motionless, i.e. People are changing jobs. [[Up front.]] In the past, when I was a man of grain, we may have thought that 1.5 percent of unemployment was normal, people changing jobs. Today, it's going to be a lot faster on the market. In other words, we are collecting tens of billions of dollars. of the companies to cope with unemployment that doesn't really exist. But I recommend it. A senator must go and cry with other shoulders than mine in that regard, and I may be especially pointing him to the shoulders of the highest. A financial minister who comes here frustrated and gives no evidence that he will somehow face these facts. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u104	V.E.G. President. It is tempting to take part in the discussion that was at the end of this discussion. paritaprevir Brubbur the Brynjar of Níelsson spoke at the mouth. paritaprevir Acoustic Össur of Skarphéðinsson, who discussed whether the tax rate was high or low in Iceland. Surely, then, we must look to controlled governments. OECD regularly publishes it, in fact, with warnings that comparison may be dangerous in terms of pension commitments and cross-overs of various types; yet, as compared with that, Icelanders are somewhere around average, but in terms of the Northern countries, we are far below the rate of tax. Thus, it is 36% in Iceland, 48 in Denmark, 44 in Sweden and 43 in Norway, and in Finland. In comparison, if we go to other countries, Canada has over 30%, 31% and 25% Canadians. We may now be at the heart of the discussion that has taken place here today that the tax rate does not tell the whole story. A low tax rate does not result in a warrant for a better standard of living for the people. In the United States, people have to pay for health care and education to a greater degree than in the North countries, for example, so when we maintain a comparison, we need to examine these factors as well. This discussion has been very informative today. I've been watching her from the beginning, even though I haven't been here in the hall and thanking the technology that the conversation can be observed elsewhere. The discussion on this bill involved in the development of changes in the tax system has been technical and political. From a technical point of view and the consequences of these changes have been considered, and then the traditional political debate has been followed by a very clear line between left - handed views and right views. How is this manifested? The traditional right - to - hand approach to the tax talk is that taxes are primarily used to earn money for the state and rural groups, to earn money for the combination. That's not enough left men. Of course, they want to use the tax system to earn money, but they also want to use the tax system for balance. That's why I agree with what. paritaprevir Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir, which in her speech today, said that if they were to contribute to this goal, they would not be inclined to think of many complications in the system, to increase, and to improve the level of income distribution in society. Hv. paritaprevir Ermur Níelsson's son said earlier that he wanted to attack even more taxes, but he has the means to increase his salary in the country so that people's income would be improved. Then we are looking to the entire labour market with a better salary, perhaps with a lower tax burden. But I'd like to look at it, and I'd like to play the argument that the taxes and transfers in the tax system are not only good individuals and families but also business. In this way we get a system that is so grown that instead of paying people a salary as if they have to survive the education of children all their lives, from a sick family member all his life, rather than having such a system, we create a transfer system that is more practical for the individual and the family than the working life as well. It is wise for us to have a powerful transfer system that keeps us from paying all dues for traumas or difficulties or some temporary tasks that are common to each person and to any family at any time in our life. That's why we've created such a system. For another example, the Speaker of the Independence Party, here on the subject of parishion and contributions to the Church, said that this was not good enough. This should be the issue of individual religion. But look at this in the light of history and reality. We know communities that tried to eliminate all religions and to bring them to nothing. It was on the east side here in the last century, and then we also have a society in which the people are imprisoned in the way they finance their churches and their religions, where we know the vast collection campaigns and the zealous missionaries. We need to look to the way we want to go. I don't agree with the system we have, to let the funds of society flow not only to the Church of America, but to religious organizations in general and to civilised. During the last term, we changed that civility is now receiving parishion and other religions as well. When we think of it as a mere personal matter, the attitude may change when your mother dies and needs to be buried. Then there is something called church, organel, and congregation, and woven into the church to warm it up, etc. It's the parish fees. And the fees made treaties between state and church, which were of little value in the wake of the crash, and people have been doing some adjustments since then, and I used it as a minister of the Interior that it would be done. I just wanted to put it into my head as a reason for that thought. I'm not speaking for the National Church or one specific congregation. I'm looking at how we want to build this area, whether we want this great competition in the field of religion, or if we want something less secure that goes before us, like a rotten cat that's at our side of town. [[Up front.]] Malandi cat, I say this out of kindness, I'm talking about wanting to be true to the contracts that have been made, I don't mean this wrong, and if anyone takes it that way, I'm gonna apologize for that, that wasn't the thought. I'm trying to emphasize that all of this is moderation and that I don't want to compete in this area. Then I find that the grand discussion that has been made here today about the equation and the impact of these changes all have. It is not enough that this government sees taxes primarily as a source of income and thinks it is highly virtue to subtract, reduce taxes, and reduce them, but it has shown itself to be very unfair in my opinion when it comes to return. One of the first works it did here at the council was decomposed of the temporary wealth tax, but many of us insisted that it should be extended. Another was a major discount on hunting costs, and tax discounts and demolitions were major. This is what has been done, and all these combined tax changes have been resulting in by human calculations of up to 40,650 billion a year. Since then, councilmen have come up here to the highest level. For the minister of finance, see the chart on page 30. 12 of the bill's report showing the consequences of planned tax changes will represent the pocket of the payman. There we get a few levels of income. We'll get the person at 300 yards. K. per month. Next month, he's going to get an injury to 1 of yours. K. beds, if I get it right. Seven hundred thousand dollars a man gets $117.73. At a discount and a million dollars is the man, 3,191K, but the thousand gets the person who has the lowest income. This is the natural thing. They say, " This is what the percentages do. ' The percentages naturally mean that the number of crowns increases as the income is higher, that's exactly right. That's why we're talking for step-over taxes with different percentages to reduce these differences and we want to go further than this one. V.E.G. To this day, the secretary of finance said: "When is it possible to reduce taxes if it is not possible to do so today? Then I'll say, if we're going to do it, let's start with the right person. I'm watching tax charges, and where am I looking? I look to patients. I don't just look at the poor and the elderly, and so do I, and we're supposed to listen to what they're saying, but I'm looking at patients. I'm watching the fact that we've received reports both from the University of Iceland and from the Cancer Society. 2013 We received a comprehensive report from the Cancer Society, and at the beginning of 2014, if I recall correctly, a report loved by the University of Iceland's Social Sciences, which claims that the cost of the health - care department of patients has reached fifth, 20%. It is not this government's fault, and it may as well look to the last government and the one who was before. We're looking at the development of these developments since 1990, the expense department of patients has been increasing. I think we all have news of it from our families and our friends, where people who are suffering from difficult illnesses, e.g. cancer, paying very high amounts for walking expenses and all kinds of expenses associated with these diseases. Then someone might say, " Yes, but aren't there some suggestions to put a roof on this? ' My criticism of the proposals that have been made, or I know it, is that instead of looking at the whole community, it is downhilling to the patient so that the diabetic will probably pay as much or as little as the cancer patient, etc., it's the injury. I want to look to the whole community, and if we're going, it's the best. Secretary of finance, reducing taxes and curses in Iceland, we should start with this group.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u105	V.E.G. President. This was illustrated by both of them. paritaprevir The count of Jónasson's son and what. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Aggressor that taxes were just not high in Iceland, they were just about to run away with other countries. The comparison is hard, you're right. But when we compare this, you'll forget one very big thing. We have to pay 12% for a pension fund to make progress to the upper age. It's going through the tax system in the other countries, and if we add 12% we're gonna have a lot of taxes. We have a lot of taxes. We pay a high percentage of our pay to the public and to the pension funds we are to receive in part. It's just a fact. We also need to consider this when looking at countries like the United States, the tax rate is, on the other hand, 25%, but the Americans, of course, pay their pay on insurance that may vary according to how much you earn against disease and disease, so it's hard to compare it. But I must say that I am not a spokesman for the general use of the tax system as a substitution system. Of course, I want the employee to be able to survive his income, and there is no need to pump money from a government fund to it. Of course, we need to ensure a measure of security so that people can be part of the community, but most important, it is that it comes through the pay and the tax is not too high that the individual does not get along with it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u106	V.E.G. President. You're absolutely right. A senator with regard to the comparison that it is complex and not simple, as I made clear in my own language and referred it to it. to Pension bonds. Nevertheless, I think that these tablets, which OECD rides forward to a variety of factors, are reserved for them. It turns out we're in the lower part of the North, but we're paying more tax than the United States, for example. Canada, for example. But there is also much more expensive, as I said, to pursue education and then to attend health issues. You know, about the income tax system, I like it, and I want to thank you. paritaprevir Brynjar's Níelsson for wanting to know himself that he is the right man who snaps into the formula I drew up here. It is that, in general, right men believe that the income balance through the tax system is not an advantage for society. I'm making reasons that she is, and that we can't even the individual with a range of less than 300 yous. K. a month and a second with a million or 2 million. K. per month. And I can tell that there was a time when even in the United States, people were more inclined to tax superintendent with super taxes. It would have been the Republican Dwight Eisenhower, who was president of the United States after a second war that represented a wealth tax in the United States. How tall would he be? He was 92%.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u107	V.E.G. President. That's right, I recognize that I'm not much of a spokesman for using the tax system as a income delivery system. Of course, I want to use the taxes to protect the welfare of the citizens, the necessary welfare of the city. I want professional life to depend on the high income that men can live on them decently, I'm not interested in leveling the income of two people in which one works 100 hours a week and the other 40 hours in the name of some kind of justice. I see no justice in it once and I've never seen it. It is always claimed that all our tax returns to some high-payers, while low - paying men remain. All these fees we're taking off, merchandise, tolls - this will be far more useful to low-payers. Then members of the administration body come up here and talk about the income tax, which is being reduced to a minimum, it is not as if big changes are being made, saying that one receives 3 of you. K. ... andoneotherjust1you. K., it's just a huge injustice. When taxes rise, their expenses are the highest, much the same way, when taxes fall. It's like that, of course. But I'm just saying that taxes like those imposed by the last government, endless fees, and south, sugar tax, and whatever, charge on alcohol and tobacco, suffered the worst loss of the income. So all of a sudden, people are really worried they're only gonna get 1st of you. K. ... butI'llget3you. K. This, of course, will be the most useful income for the overall population.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u108	V.E.G. President. We faced a huge crash of income at rural funds and government funds, and we did two things together, raising taxes, and cutting down expenses, and trying to compromise our spending. What I think we did best was the focus of the changes we made in the taxes because I think they were more righteous. No one's playing the game of paying taxes. We are dealing with problems that we face and try to protect our welfare system and protect those who are inferior. I said, "What?Brynjar Níelsson But I didn't expect him to become so outspoken as he was now in opposition to this day and resist everything I thought was just righteousness. I thought we could join together in trying to create a just tax system that would spare those who had the lowest income, but make those who are able and making the best of the terms pay more in our common fund. There are some things that you can quite agree with, people with a lot more than enough, and we shouldn't bother using the tax system in my opinion to level the benefits in this country and establish a more righteous society. I'm sure deep down is what you want. A senator, though, understands a passage. But there's a difference between right-hand approach and sociologists on the left.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u109	Madam President. First, I want to thank you for your lively discussion here today. It is not often that bills are likely to take such a broad discussion, as we have been doing today, and it has been a major factor in the development of tax reforms and customs. I feel that the discussion was perplexing, and it has been handled here with honesty and reasoning that everyone sees a little bit of his eyes. It seems to me that there have been an unusual number of opinions on why it is not right to reduce taxes and charges or that should do so in some way differently. There has been a wide variety of choice of arguments against the case. Men have noted that it is unfortunate for the economic situation to go to these taxes, but in the other word, they often speak as if it was the right to increase the state's spending level. I don't think it's a argument, it has to be one for the economic reasons, either there's room to relax or not. I think it's the right time to take care of your home and go to these tax reforms and toll changes. We are doing so in stages because we are looking to the economic situation, and we also want to keep our eyes on the rest of the money and make room for the rest. The debate over the effects of the changes in the tax system for different income groups has been lively. I will arrange for the discussion that, after all these changes, there will be 700 you. K. The man with more tax burden than 600 of you. K. The man and he have more tax burden than 500 of you. K. Man and nos too much. As we rise, the tax burden grows. This results from the interaction between character discounts and two or according to events of a three - step system. In fact, in discussing many tax steps, it can be said that we have an infinite number of tax steps, as is suggested at times in this discussion. When you look at it down into the basement, it's the guy who has 701 you. K. ... wehavemore tax burden than the person who has 700. K. Thus, it is not all that seems to be counted among the thousands of dollars that return to the pay system by making the tax change. paritaprevir Ögmundur the son of Jónasson got away quite well. It's not quite simple with that interaction of percent and dollars. The important thing is that we still have a social tax system. As the pay goes up, there is more tax burden than we can pay with middlers. I remind you that this was an operation related to the preparation of collective agreements and played very closely with the emphasis on a rise in the lowest salary. If a person wants to pick up the minimum wage, it would be prudent to take along one buried debt and a reduced tax score and see how it works to return much to those who have the lowest salary. The figures have been discussed with today's improvement systems. I have nothing special about the discussion of adding unless it matters for our ability to continue to improve the interests of those who need someone else's help to keep up - to - date with the government, and we are strengthening their position. We are improving the level of money each year, and we continue to do so next year. That's what matters. Afterward, there is a group in the community that is very difficult to make ends meet, and there is no disagreement about it here at the council. But we cannot solve it once and for all by one operation. We simply need to set an even more ambitious goal of supporting this group. In the worst situation, I believe that those who do not have the option of pursuing employment or after experiences have no pension fund. This is true, for example, of those who have completed their career and where there is no pension money, no matter what the reason, there may be different reasons, and there are no opportunities to earn any income. These people are in a most difficult position, and we hear them very clearly from the older citizens'organization. That is why it is very important to complete our work on reevaluation of social security and how we can build for the gaps in the social security system and cause a prevalence between groups in different positions. The review of the insurance system is also important when it comes to the status of a pensioner. My opinion is that it would be a big improvement in the system of looking more closely at disability than the modern medical disability. Yet, that conversation is still alive. We have this bill to make many other changes. I've been talking a lot about the consumer taxes today. I completely disagree that by dropping consumer taxes, and then I'm referring the other way to the defenses we've already taken down and the customs, we're in some way digging seriously under the income markets of the state. Let us bear in mind that the cake is growing, that is, growth in land production. We'll have more land production next year than we have today and if the next year's predictions are going on. When it comes to a recession process, which will certainly happen sooner than later, let's hope that it will not be in such a way that there will be significant recession in national production, which is usually the case when the economy stops growing. Then we will have the foundation, the strain or the quantity of the land production we've been building under the years above. A recession in national production cannot be excluded. This is certainly true in the years following the collapse, but we have won the relaxed one again, and in the meantime, we need to stress the reduction of debt and the benefits of a position that will come up then. It's been a lively discussion. It's been around many places. I've been trying to cope here with the main thing I've been straight about. I will not use my entire talk period to fill out further discussions on these matters. I'm going to suggest that the situation will go to the Economic and Business Committee after this discussion and wish for welfare and will offer all the help that we in the Ministry can provide to help explain the matter further if they are looking for it. People have borne it up here today if I had anything against changing the case. Of course not! It has become the custody of the council, and that is true of customs, as has many other factors. People have wondered if we should speed up customs rules for special products. It may well be that this is the case. I'm not going to deny it. In many ways, this is a turning point. Yes, there are changes in the tax system. They are not fundamental, but they are important in the situations that exist today because of the workforce position and to continue to lose weight on their homes. The Tolls are a turning point, and they are in good agreement with the government covenant and the previous policy. If we finish this election period by decommissioning the public interest fees and these customs that are actually up to the end of the income fund, since they are down to about 1% of the government's income, it would be an enormous benefit for the entire Icelandic public. Then I'll finish my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u110	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalise a change in the law on Iceland's international development team for the second time. The bill was assigned to the last assembly, but it did not succeed. The bill is now presented materially unchanged. Still, based on the activities of the Development Agency, the Ministry of State is united for years and all non-stop employees will be offered jobs there. The Ministry also reviews temporary contracts and meets them according to its content. Changes taken by the bill are almost exclusively technical in order to reflect that there is now a consideration for a new council, but the comments made by the National Affairs Committee on a more precise explanation for comments on the bill have also been taken. International Development Cooperation is one of Iceland's principal foreign policy, and one of the biggest cases is the State Department's Department of State. The first law on helping in Iceland was set up in 1971. They were released in 1981 by the legislation on the Development Organization. Finally, in 2008, the current law was set aside for the first time, not just the two - sided assistance, but for the first time. International Development Cooperation is a group of languages that are defined by the cooperation of international and international partners, civil organizations, administration agencies, cooperation countries, and international institutions. Because of the importance of the global case category and the high demand for maximum success, policy development and organization are in constant development. The 2008 law has contributed to some progress, such as increased cooperation and coordination in the work of YSSI and the Ministry of State. Then there has been a marked increase in coordination between two - sided and international jobs with the formation of a synonym for a four - year development programme adopted by the General Assembly. Despite these improvements, there is still considerable scope for improving our work, as it is our will to maximise the success of the donations provided by Iceland for the seminary. Before Iceland became a member of the OECD, DEC, development committee, in 2013, a special assessment was made on the basis of Iceland's international development team. Among its points was the need for the Icelandic government to evaluate the development and development systems based on the way the maximum result and effectiveness were ensured in terms of the small size of the country as a donor. With this in mind, an external expert, Þórir Guðmundsson, was appointed to identify the development and development systems, the peacekeeping and humanitarian services of Iceland at the end of 2013. Þórir returned their report in July 2014 with various suggestions for improvement. The bill recommended here is based on these proposals, which is made by a group of representative representatives of both the State Department of State and the Development Agency. Now, I'm going to go back to the big changes the bill expects. I also refer to a report published at the General Assembly of May in the past on request, which will consider a number of factors related to the proposed change. The biggest change will be that the State Ministry will be united. This is done by means of an arrangement in 2kret. The bill that measures that it is the Ministry that cares for international development cooperation, both multinational and bilateral, is the two - sided assistance that the YSSI has so far been able to provide. As a result, As with the new provisional regulations I and III in Article 11, the Ministry will eliminate all of the Agency's commitments. The bill. There are many reasons for turning YSSI into the Ministry, but most of it is two. On the one hand, they focus on strengthening a link between development and other foreign affairs and on synergies and practicality. The logic is given in detail in comments to the bill, but I'm just skimming here on a big one. Moving TSSI into the Ministry ensures that all contact with foreign countries and developing institutions are in harmony and consistent with Iceland's foreign policy, as well as with the government that they speak in one voice of international evolutionary cooperation. As far as cooperation and practicality are concerned, we all know that the Icelandic management department is small and small, where each employee has to care for a variety of tasks. A more simple and more targeted organization will increase the likelihood that Iceland's goals and priorities in international development cooperation will be achieved and will result in more efficient development cooperation. It is also good to remember that the methodology and role of TheSSI have changed and the implementation has increased to national organisations in Iceland's cooperation countries, such as local governments. Therefore, the activities of TheSSI, at the scene of two - sided development, are increasingly comparable to those employed by the Ministry of State Development at the scene of international development. It is proper to assume that while organization, management, and monitoring of development cooperation are moving to the State Ministry, two - sided development activities in Iceland's cooperation countries will be carried out in the same way as has been done. We will also, of course, continue to take into account the best practices, the international approved on the effectiveness of developing cohesion and the great experience in Iceland in this area that has been gathering over the years. The law bill covers the provision of the new provisional regulations II and III in Article 11. The bill. The aim of this decision is to ensure all members of the YSSI, whether they are at work in Reykjavík or the U.S. district office, abroad, similar activities in the ministry of the Agency, as they move there. First, the Second provisional principle suggests that the Ministry overrides all commitments due to the agreements of YESI. Second, the provisional principle III suggests that all staff of your staff will be offered a job at the Ministry. Another proposal in the bill focuses on the creation of a new development partner committee, as Article 3. The bill, which will replace both existing development providers at 3 mg. 2.g. Act of the law and of the cooperation of international development teamwork on Article 4. The law. Its role is to advise in the policy making of long-term international development activities and to monitor its implementation. It is suggested that the committee be organized, among other things, for five members of the council, and that she meets regularly with a minister. It has also been important for consultations with stakeholders, such as the university community, the labour market parties, and partners. Experience has shown that in the current system of things, there are several main challenges. The work of the colleagues and of the development committees overlaps, and there is uncertainty, but this has not been resolved. The report by Dr. Guðmundsson Gudmundson concludes that because of the speciality of this sect, it is important that members of the Parliament have directed access to development teamwork. In view of this, it is suggested that one employee, a developing team member, rather than two, be hired by one, i.e. cooperation with international development teamwork and a developing teamwork committee. According to this suggestion, the general members of a development committee are represented by representatives rooted in the university, the work market, and the civil organization, as well as by a chairman. Thus, the presence of the Generalis is as loyal as possible without any forming of a special members of Congress. Then there is a proposal for a change in international development policy that will be submitted to the General Assembly in the form of a judicial hearing every five years, as shown in Article 5. The bill. There is also a suggestion to bring together in one of the laws that discuss contributions to global development, such as Article 6. The bill. The implementation of the policy in an action programme reviewed every two years should then be further established. This change is submitted by the legislation to provide one document containing both policies and measures. The nature of the case is long-term, but the plan of action requires more frequent reviews. So it's a good idea to separate one from another. Finally, proposals are made to adjust the laws of the Icelandic Peace Guard and its participation in international peacekeeping, which include measures under a peacekeeping project. These changes in action aim to meet the trends that have taken place in the international environment in which the Peace Guard operates, the changing process, and the emphasis. Many might ask themselves, " Why change the course of success? ' My answer is simply that it makes us more effective and more effective. It is in the best interests of everyone, both staff and economists, that Iceland's development team is well organized and efficient and meets the rapidly growing international requirements for responsible management and policy in this area. The changes now being made are primarily on the direction of developing cooperation, but their aim is to change to improve and strengthen Iceland's international development team. I have already assigned the group of workers who wrote the bill to work on the necessary preparation of these changes. This includes providing proposals for a new State Department development organization, including monitoring and review, financial workforce, development network, and other Offices of the Ministry. Careful attention should be paid to the rights and interests of employees and to other necessary preparations. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be followed by this discussion referred to 2nd. ... andwhat. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u111	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the story. I noticed that he said that the case was submitted, as I understood him, with a change from the fact that it was submitted here last. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers on this matter, as the matter was discussed and debated in the last assembly. Among the things that we in the memory of the Allied Committees were that it would be more prudent to wait for DAC's peer review. It was even requested that it be hurried. I can see from this report that it quotes an peer review made in other Member States of FAC. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister would not have the option of requesting that this peer output be accelerated to make such a decision regarding development cooperation after that, so that the basis for the rest would be established. I'd like to know if this was being considered on the top of the world. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u112	A respectable president. I thank the senator for his inquiry. I know that there was this idea of waiting for the DAC's peer review. To answer, 2013 was a major assessment of the development team. We build the process we are going to take, among other things, that suggested that Iceland was a relatively small donor state, as indicated in my speech, and that it might be normal to go over the scope and management and organization of development cooperation. That's exactly what we did. As a result, there is a recent assessment that is laid down, among other things. So there was no need to wait specifically for peer review.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u113	Madam President. In 2012/2013 a special assessment was made in the United States by the OECD development team. It's a recent one. I don't know any better, after considering the matter by reason. A foreign press committee, but the conclusion was that the course of such laws is sufficiently strong, but the law needs to be carried out much better. That may be a thought - provoking point. I'd like to hear the highest food. It belongs to a minister. Then, from 2008 onward, relatively new laws had come into effect, and comments that were then made were primarily about the need to respond to the indication of enforcing the newly passed laws. It's just a few years old songs. In other words, they would need to be carried out better, but not necessarily a change in the established arrangement. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he has any other interpretation. The conclusion, as far as I understand, was that the legal and institutional barriers were sufficiently strong for participation in the DEC, but these laws would need to be applied better. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u114	A respectable president. I thank the senator again for the answer. It is true that the 2013 Data Assessment report says that the framework we have for developing cooperation is really nice. It also shows that we are faced with challenges that we need to correct, or we are told that it is good to correct. One of our actions is to respond, including the following: by synchronizing and harmonizing and getting a better view of what we are doing overall when it comes to developing cooperation. Of course, when we are working with international institutions indirectly related to two - sided development teamwork, this is true when it can be said to do so. We are even strengthening members of an international organization or organizations of the United Nations, etc. It blends into the two - sided job. So I think we're responding to the 2013 report. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u115	Madam President. Now, this matter has come to the council again and again. Minister must submit to the will of the Generals. He is not permitted to take any steps to approve this bill in the past, but it is approved here at the General Assembly. I'd like to ask you a question to the highest. Minister: Has he formally offered to some of your staff what he called a similar job within the Ministry? Have any letters been sent by the Ministry that depend on the Ministry to start working as if this bill were already approved?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u116	A respectable president. That's a good question for you. A senator and I thank him for the answer. It is important that we keep the personnel' issues straight and that they are handled carefully and carefully. We have said that all employees who are committed to the UN, whether at home or abroad, will have a comparable job. We're working on it, and we expect this bill to be approved. But if not, the Agency will, of course, react and continue in the same form, etc. If the senator is wondering if the head of the United States was told that he would not be responsored, then under the staff law, the manager's order is temporary for five years. It is essentially a temporary recruitment. Therefore, the director of the TSSI was sent a letter stating that his appointment would not be extended in view of the fact that this plan is available. [[The president calls.]] But if that's how it's gonna be, I'll tell you what. The senator here, that the matter will not be agreed upon, of course, I will advertise this position as it should be, and shall by law.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u117	Madam President. That was an unexpected answer, and it wasn't exactly what I was fishing for. But that's how it works. A minister is telling us that he has decided not to reinvigorate the head of the TSSI, to see if this bill will be approved or not? Wait, that's the way it works. Minister has come to take revenge against your employees? I don't have a single word, Madam President. This well - chosen director has, in effect, earned many others, earned respect, and thanks, especially since he has managed to obtain vast quantities of foreign funds here to cooperate with the Icelandic donations. The news is so unexpected, Mr. President, I'm kind of going to get a kick out of it. It seems to me that what might be called, after listening to a talk at the top. Minister, all the exposés that it presents to the agency, that this is some kind of bullying on the side of the highest. Secretary of state to this recommended institution. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u118	A respectable president. You're absolutely right. A senator says. What a fine work that has been done, and how wonderful it has been! That's why it's all wrong, and, really, I don't think anyone else is. A senator, but Össur Skarphéðinsson could have taken this discussion down on that level, talking about some revenge action. It's quite remarkable.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u119	V.E.G. President. I'm here to thank the Minister for presenting this bill. It's a long time that this institution harmonizes with the Ministry of State for many reasons. Her agreement with the Ministry will ensure professional goals rather than before, although I know that the Agency has done well. This will lead to successful management and ensure that in every action involved in development aid on the part of the Icelandic state, perfect harmony will be achieved. I think it means a lot. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister whether it is not guaranteed that the founding knowledge present in the Developmental Cooperative Agency today will remain in the Ministry of State after this operation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u120	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer. This is exactly a key question that will be taken into consideration. It is very important that the knowledge that exists within the TSSI, as well as within the Ministry's development team office, all of us make better use than it actually does today. All of this will be done to ensure that the knowledge that exists today will not be lost by this translocation or by this fusion. In both places, whether in the Ministry or in the TSSI, there is great knowledge and excellent human beings who have cared for this with great love and that is what we want especially to be careful, that people are allowed to thrive in that environment and the work they've done until now. Questions have been raised as to whether employees become part of the transport systems in the Ministry. It is simply working with it, and I will do everything I can to make just what employees want about whether they want to be part of it or have any other system. But the main thing is that we do not lose the knowledge we have in developing cooperation with us today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u121	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for this answer. I am absolutely convinced that this fusion will have financial advantages, i.e. Better use of public money, which I have very much followed. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if there are any numbers on that, when the dust is sat down as you say, for when such fusion becomes, the fusion will save. I expect the savings that comes directly into the development project and not necessarily to be passed on to the government fund. I expect this benefit to be shown in our more powerful evolutionary work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u122	A respectable president. Thanks for the inquiry. It is not expected that as soon as we get financial savings together, we will be offering all the staff that is there today's job in the office. It has to be said that when it comes to developing cooperation, we are not particularly overcrowded. However, this will in the future be expected to result in more fusion and some sort of economic gain that will or may pay for financial savings, but it is not expected to be a major theme of this union. We are primarily trying to get more out of the money we have today, creating an environment where employees who have been in two - sided and multi - sided development cooperation can work together. It will improve the knowledge of all, I think, at the end. In the future, I believe that it can lead to some kind of financial saving in government and such things, but that is not a goal in itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u123	President. I'm more than likely to say a word after the verbal exchange that took place between the highest level. Minister and minister. paritaprevir Acoustics, Skarphéðinsson's son. Is it so that the Minister has set off, as they say, a full-time job that aims for this bill here to be approved? Is that what they're doing at the State Department? In Europe it is quite clear that the Minister does not understand what the Parliament, nation, or anyone wants, but now it is also shown in this important matter. In fact, I was going to ask what was the reason why Congress should suddenly sit in charge or advice on developing research. I can't see any better than it's better if we sit in the Minister's office every day to see what he's doing with Bhudus, but maybe he can still answer me.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u124	A respectable president. Thanks for the inquiry. First of all, there is no new organization in the Ministry of State. However, as mentioned in my talk, preparation is expected to begin. If you follow through, and we assume that the bill goes through, it is not unusual for preparation to begin. But it's not working on any new organization, either within the Development Agency or the Ministry, that's all about the same. Regarding the members of Parliament, it has at times been suggested in the conferences and in committees that members of the Parliament think they have little contact with what is going on in developing cooperation, and it is suggested that a part of a development committee be appointed to members of the Parliament, to connect more closely with the council. That's what it means to think. One suggestion was to have a special Parliamentary committee that discussed evolution matters, but it was too heavy and extensive and therefore suggested that a member of a development committee be members of Congress. Then I'd like to correct a problem. A senator with the fact that all streets since the previous government applied for involvement in the European Union, a greater part of the nation has been opposed in all surveys to enter the European Union. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u125	A respectable president. Preparation for a law to go into effect at some point is to write to the director of the agency that he or she will not be re-enacted - this is so simply that I am speechless. V.E.G. A minister said that if this bill has not been agreed and I would like to ask: Is it really the intention of those who are now working in the general diplomat, if I may call it, to enter the development projects that are now carried out by a developing research agency in their transport?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u126	A respectable president. I simply think that it is very important to listen to the wishes that both the TSSI and the Ministry of Development have already reached this union. It has been reported that some workers have asked if they will be required to enter this transport system. Others have said and shown that they are interested in entering that system. We need to try to meet these people's wishes. This is not to say that it is the ultimate idea that everyone will be forced into one box. Rather, we will try to listen to what people want to do. It's part of the pre-work involved here, that's going through this process, trying people into this new environment. I think the sooner you start that job, the better. We'll see if we don't, and then we'll still have the system we have today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u127	Madam President. Rather, I feel sad to discuss this matter in the present circumstances. I'm not going to commit to the Top Worker. Minister. There are many things I don't agree with in his course, but that's a whole different matter. V.E.G. Ministers have absolutely legitimate reasons for having completely different political views than I do. I take it just like any other dog, even though it may sting when it comes to it. But I have to say, I thought it was the highest. A minister would be above the practice of such practices. That's all I can say. I got in a mood under the top speech. Minister when he spoke of the agency. I thought, in every other sentence, that the Agency wasn't doing well, it wouldn't be in the beat, things wouldn't be properly fired. V.E.G. A minister used a word of double design, the Agency or its language needed to be harmonized with foreign policy and needed to be better adjusted. In any case, the Minister's case will reflect on the fact that the Agency is not doing it. It's like she's in some kind of rebellion against the highest. Minister. This appeared over and over again last year, but not in the same way as before, yet it is absolutely clear that this institution, with the Ministry Department's personnel, is getting the ideal grades for all who have taken it out. I don't want to use a stronger word. Then when you see it at the top. A minister goes to Africa to visit our collaborators there and takes a group of government officials with him, but careful not to take the director of the Agency with or any of his employees who have never happened before, of course, you start thinking. Is there a problem with personal relations, on the part of the Minister? When it does, it goes by the highest. Minister here, in answer to me earlier, that he has just decided not to responsibly hire a man whom he himself describes as an individual, careful and special employee, and this smells more than bullying. I think it's beginning to smell like a vendetta because the Agency's allowed freedom of speech and its employees have allowed themselves to talk and give comments to us on the foreign government committee. It's like the highest. Minister has arrived on some kind of personal journey to the executives of the agency. This is not how we tolerate the High Council. That's not how we work. It's been years since this kind of work was left out here. I feel like the highest. From the discussion that took place last year, a minister did not learn or understand. Apparently, he did not follow the development of the discussion. He comes here and talks to us about the subsequent review, which we were told was not an assessment but only a prelude to a further assessment done in order to get a special employee of the Red Cross to file a report for the highest level. Minister and postponer found that the Agency needs to be changed. The argument of the highest order. A minister will know why, why, and what changes must be made, never to be made. Earlier this year a report of three scholars, Faure, Long, and Prizzon, was published, which was introduced to us at the Foreign Affairs Committee under the close of our discussion at our last council. It's a bit interesting to read that report. It reveals that the arrangement for THOSE falls into the category where most of such institutions can be found. In other words, although it appears repeatedly in the report at the highest level. Ministers that the Icelandic arrangement and the TSSI are very special, which would be all over themselves, well, it's not like that. This is the assessment of neutral scholars, who I don't know whether they've been to Iceland. They simply examined the arrangement of many institutions such as TheSSI in many countries from sources they had under their hands and found that its structure and structure and the development of the Icelandic development team is in the ka·ygiʹa that is in much of the country's population. There's nothing wrong with that. Apart from this, we repeatedly report from the DEC Committee that the committee that reviewed these issues in the introduction to Iceland applied for the OECD Development Committee that everything seemed to be extremely well-becoming. There was no record of double design, no reference to some way in which things would have to be changed so that they would be more consistent between foreign policy and TSSI. On the contrary, the DEC assessment showed that there was a good cooperation between TheSSI and the Ministry of State. It turned out that things seemed to be walking extremely anointed. However, what was stated in the DEC report was that, in view of the programs that lived back then and actually agreed on, on a large increase in budget for developing cooperation in Iceland, we might need to examine more closely the way in which we hated it. What followed was to the highest point. A minister had a premeditated that men would lose out on the vast increase that was due to occur. The situation today is that we are developing a work programme missing in the following year 4.7 billion from what was accepted at the time so that the criteria given to the DAC Committee were given as a basis for special consideration. Then I have to say that I don't think the Ministry has handled the tips given in the DA's report on the Ministry, both in the report and in the talks at the highest level. Minister. Over and over, it is clearly stated that it is in direct context with the findings of the FAC report that this is presented, but it is not. It's only stated in one place in the DEC report that Iceland needs to take a closer look at its development teamwork. What are some things we need to consider? What is it that makes this decision and this indication by the FAC Committee? It is the fact that Iceland differs from in that almost half of the budget that goes according to the definitions of OECD for two-sided projects is arranged on the part of the Ministry. In other words, it might be concluded that Iceland's Minister or Government should consider whether it would be best to increase the share. It is then appropriate to review what came to pass at the time when the Ministry Department's officials made yet another attack against foreign advisers who were then trying to overcome such a change and to speak to former foreign ministers, Davíð Oddsson, to go exactly on this mission. He had it checked out. Who did he have it examined for himself? I know why. paritaprevir Brises the Brynjar of Níelsson rejoice to know that the ruler of this view is now the highest. Minister of Education, a man of whom we have great confidence in both of us. What was the outcome of the then foreign minister, Davíð Oddsson, after the present supreme rule? The intellectual minister of Illugi Gunnarsson's son had taken a group and considered this? The result was the opposite. The conclusion was that there should be an expansion of the domains of the YSSI and that it should oversee all development projects, not only the two - sided but also the multi-sided projects. Davíð, the son of Oddsson, and the chief. Education ministers of Illugi Gunnarsson are not alone in this regard. In April we received a review from the University of Iceland of Social Sciences, which Dr. Daði Monstor Kristófersson signed and came and made a clear statement to the committee. It made it clear that the quality institution, including Iceland's University, which in its own dues has a wealth of expertise in these matters, feels that it is urgent to attack the development of a research agency. In addition, it is the position of this outstanding institution that it is far wiser to go the way that Davíð the son of Oddsson wanted to go at his time, i.e. To deliver the projects from the State Department to the Development Agency. I think that in such a situation where there is a heated debate over this matter, and since it is clear that the Minister cannot point out anything that is not working in the Agency, I think it should be a very careful look at this process. I think, as it may be, that we should make a very careful analysis of whether there could be no progress in developing cohesion if men simply strengthened the TSSI and made it possible to transfer all the projects in the developing community to her. That's what I'd do if I were the best. Minister. If I was then, I would also prefer to argue over this matter, take the stand of the government when it has told many times that it is ready to consider with a very positive mind to proceed to the neutral peer review of the DEC Committee, which is due in 2016. There are men and women who are considering this matter. We were told that the conclusion will come next year. Why should this arrangement be changed now if it is known that the following year we will receive the assessment of the key experts available? There's no reason, Madam President, to go this way and hurry in this way. It looks like Iceland's foreign policy has become the core of putting down the TSSI. When I listened to a talk, it was the highest. A minister of the budget, sitting in charge of answers and explaining the new assignments that the Ministry especially wanted, I didn't hear much talk about the north. I didn't hear much talk about the EEA. No, what was mentioned there were tasks such as opening up a new embassy in Strassburg again and establishing some small concertor in the Minister's district to sort out documents. Then if you agree with it and agree with the highest Congress List. Ministers, it is clear that the emphasis is on one matter and that is the only issue that breaks down at the highest level. The government of foreign affairs, at least. This year, it's shutting down. This should, of course, be associated with the highest level of contact. Minister and chief. A government has been in charge of evolutionary cooperation. Let us not forget that the highest. The minister of the State was one of those who set out for the then government in 2011, when the government arrived here with a program to cover 2020 and, of course, assumed that when Iceland recovered from the waves, we are giving a lot of effort to develop cooperation. How did that smell? V.E.G. A minister, along with the chairman of the Independence Party and many members of the then legislature administration, joined together to expand this mission. I remember the most beautiful words. A minister thought that this was practical. V.E.G. The current financial minister, who made such progress, said that he had considered the purpose of the next year's economic growth to be quite practical. At the time, I thought that I might be fully aware of the developments ahead, and I was happy about this. Today, this is the scene: the difference between what it is and what it is. Ministers accepted 2011 and what he is fighting for in the government today for developing cooperation is 4.7 billion. Last year, he arrived at a much lower percentage that he was going to fight for developing cooperation this year with national product. There's still 500 million missing. [[The president calls.]] There seems to be no obstacles when it comes to defending this mountain from the highest degree. Minister. [[The president calls.]] All he cares about is putting down an organization that's done well and no one has ever been able to find a spot on it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u128	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Snooper, son of Skarphéðinsson, for his bold speech, as it is hoped and pointed. It is a man who knows tremendously well about these matters, including those. ... aspreviousofthefest. Minister of Foreign Affairs and one man with tremendous length of Congress experience. That's why I want to ask you why. A senator. Although, in another word it is quite possible that a developing cohesion agency is being consulted, in the second sense it seems necessary to lay down the Agency, as this bill shows. Then I'd like to ask who. A senator whether he remembers that the European Development Agency at some point did not properly oversee the funds she has been given, and he trusts to use in projects that contribute to helping poor people out of the world. Can the senator remember that at some point the Agency has not lived up to its name or trust? Besides, I'd like to ask about the DAC review that's due next year. Well, maybe. A senator thought of why the ultimate. A minister like this is in a hurry? Why do these changes have to be started now before it comes? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u129	Madam President. I've previously described my experience in this case as a new minister. This was the first thing that had come to me. I think this is the first case, as the Ministry's staff, who were particularly interested in taking this group into the Ministry, always coming to a new minister, and I simply think the Supreme Minister. Minister has fallen for this. Will you get this over with? But that may be another explanation - the highest. Minister has no other language. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] If the Constitution is examined, it will be found that except for what is natural, the word is one of the king iron and a plea, to bring here the record of the EEA's affairs that he will spin through this council faster than any previous minister, there's no other problem. [[Up front.]] It's possible that this is the cause of a lawsuit or an idea. Of course, I notice it and I find it strange that nothing special is. Minister is concerned. Yes, except for laying down TheSSI, he wants to promote Western cooperation, get closer to the United States, and apparently have the highest. A minister spoke out in that regard because after his last conversation with one of the viceal soldiers he spoke to in the United States, he went to the press and said that he had asked the United States to bring the Army back to Iceland to some extent. No one took note of this, as shown by the fact that not every member of the council asked for a special discussion. It is a little dangerous when the Minister has reached the stage where even the council has stopped paying attention to him when it comes to real politics. As far as the past goes, I'll say that at least During the past decade, the World Health Organization has done a great deal of money to the point of passing judgment by the State Reconnaissance, which repeatedly states that this is a model organization and never makes any comments to its accounts. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u130	Madam President. I think it's very important in the debate that takes place tonight on this bill that there is a prelude to the well - run and to employ its funds. I think it's really important that it lies in the way, and we remember. But because of it. A senator reviewed that this was the first issue the Ministry brings to the minister of state any time, and I would like to reflect on what was presented in the latest DAC peer review, conducted in 2012◯2014, that there can be a clear change in the evidence that the link between evolutionary and foreign activities is becoming stronger and growing, and linking between foreign trades, foreign policy and development efforts is growing ever more. This was shown in the case of the highest. Minister, and what? paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson, in fact, made publicity here, that it should be harmonized with the Agency's policy of foreign policy. So I'd like to ask: Is the world's state on the way of changing development cooperation in a way that will result in more on the basis of those who provide assistance, i.e. to make it political in the work of a country that provides assistance, perhaps less in behalf of those who accept assistance and have to build up their communities?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u131	Madam President. I think the trend is further away from this. The other thing is for sure that it was this way. In the previous years, U.S. government operators were often beaten to the point that people who claimed to see some sort of opportunity for exporting from Iceland pointed to examples of Denmark and Sweden, especially Denmark, where foreign trade was virtually linked to development cooperation. That's the way it was. Of course, it's like this to some other degree. The process of evolution is complete, as are the ones we have, and some natural nations create a far greater degree of satisfaction. We're good to go. I think I can claim that this has been a bit critical, and evolution is from this. If we look e.g. in our situation, we can even see that industry in Iceland could see the advantage of getting through developing cooperation, such as with the earth's heat, but one of the important things for a state that is, for example, near the Great Shill is gaining knowledge in order to make use of the energy there. We've been along the way that we've given quite a lot of money to do that. I think I'm right when I say that there may be a lack of expert people, but they've both tried to build up knowledge in these countries in a slightly clever way and to hire local people. I don't know if it's because there's just been no choice. This has done quite well, and it is becoming a knowledge there. The man who is now directing the TSSI has managed to obtain very large amounts of money from other developing institutions because Iceland thinks it's a good paper in this article. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u132	Madam President. I want to carry on with the thread as long as possible. paritaprevir The Steinunn, Þóra the Year's Árnadóttir, recorded. It is now that in a paper with the proposal of a foreign minister, it is stated that it can be identified, so that I testify in a report, a pronounced change of policy in the context of a stronger link between evolutionary cooperation and other foreignities. The report states that although poverty is still core in developing relief countries, more and more have strengthened the link between development, foreign policy, and foreign trade, which is on the same page as discussed here. Yet, it is so that when we meditated on the matter at the moment, we did. A last Parliament's foreign - language committee also strongly overlooked the viewpoints of some of the committee's conversations with this issue that too much mixture of foreign business and development cooperation was very risky. I'd like to ask you what. In view of the fact that while it may be a clever way of using business connections to develop, a member of the minister's office during the last term does not replace two - sided development teamwork, which is based on building up wood. We can talk about school, we can talk about maternity services, we can talk about water, all the things the development agency has come up to. I'd like to ask you what. A senator on his vision of this. It was observed in the case of some of the committee's interviewers that the DiaC warned of too much mixing of commerce and traditional two - sided development teamwork. Nevertheless, this is specifically mentioned in the report as evidence of the case, so that coin is clearly in place. I'd like to ask you what. A senator from his experience as Minister on his vision of these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u133	Madam President. I believe that if this gets too strong, and if our business plans are begun to determine which way we choose a subject when we're laying off money in the development team, it's very undesirable. It was this way, of course, in the past, don't forget that we had both a seamen's school and started a project in Namibia that ended naturally in Icelandic hands, but it didn't take long for the locals to gain it, and not much of the popularity of everyone in Iceland. So I think that it is also difficult to fool foreign nations, if that is the case. A senator is appropriate. In our case, it is simply so that when the Icelanders come to Malawi and give them an entire hospital that costs 700 million, that makes it undeniably acceptable to the Icelanders. It is possible that this willingness might be expressed in some way in future dealings with the nations, but today there is no trade between the three countries that we have had in most of our dealings with. Evolution's flagships have been the schools, especially the geothermal school. It is simply so that we have educated so much of their labor in the geodynamic industry that when ministers like me, for example, came to Indonesia, a vast country, and the Philippines could be promised that almost half of the middle managers in the geothermal companies there had been educated in Iceland. It creates what it wants. They wanted to buy more knowledge from Iceland, etc. I don't think such an arrangement was ever intended to create any business connection, but they have. That was, however, more than a human product when they first started it decades ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u134	Madam President. I think this is an important point, because this change is being offered to bring Iceland's voice together in the field of development, with the argument that this is moving more and more into one and the same pot, i.e. Foreign trade, development cooperation, and other foreign languages. That's what worries me about this case. I think there needs to be a clear separation, since, of course, goals are very different, although they may create an extra product of development cooperation. I'd like to use my second answer to ask why. A senator's conduct on something else is also related to his work in the office of foreign ministers. The fact is that the Ministry of State differs from other problems in that its professional institutions are not many, in fact, just one, and that's a developing research agency. If this bill is legal, the State Department will have no such profession, then the Ministry will be alone. Whether this will serve the target set for joint administration has been discussed here, fewer units. It is my opinion that this is not the case, since the criticism that has been made that the government is too weak has primarily been that the Ministry is too small and weak. For some reason, for some reason, the government has reassigned the Union Ministry, so there are some departments that are very small in interest, and probably not very sexy. But only through the vision. A senator and a former chief. This belongs to a minister, i.e. whether it's important to increase the testimony of the Ministry to get this profession. I have no choice whatsoever to understand the instructions given at the time of a government hearing, that the criticism was about uniting problems, rather that the Ministry would have to strengthen, even unite, to be a powerful government organization, but not necessarily that the institutions would come into it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u135	Madam President. With regard to the first question, it has never flown through my mind that men are changing it and putting it down to gain a better hold on evolutionary money, so that it could be used in some way in order to get into a normal Icelandic life. It's never occurred to me, and I've never seen any sign of it, either with the existing government or with the one I was in. It is the nature of counsel and the nature of such institutions to seek greater authority. There won't be any decent minister unless you realize it from the first day that the Ministry always tries to take the most authority from the Minister. So ministers will be comfortable and convenient. Sometimes it works, sometimes it doesn't. In this case, I think this arrangement of directly putting the Agency down could harm development cooperation. I'm not sure that's going to happen, but I'll notice that. One minister wrote that knowledge or increased knowledge may need to be added to the staff. This suggests that it may be that once he has lost and driven, in some cases, those who are the most experienced in these areas may find it difficult to build it up. Besides, there is little in the Icelandic Ministry of State, and if these employees become transportable, I believe the foundation of knowledge will be very thin at the Ministry. For example, in Denmark and Norway, where there have been significant changes, institutions were not laid down. It is an arrangement that can be carefully reviewed, that can be taken whole, with the Agency and placed as an organization. That was the way it was done, and Nora and Danica live and work as such units. I think that's a better arrangement than what the Minister is doing, just cut off the agency, and still lacks the argument. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Like what? paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter said in her discussion last year, with president's permission: ain't broke, don't fix it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u136	Madam President. I know what to do. paritaprevir Little thanks for Skarphéðinsson's last words because I was just gonna bring them back here again. In fact, I took them in Icelandic in my time and will do it here and now because this is exactly what I have considered in this case from the beginning. I cut by the highest. In fact, in his speech, a minister answered that question, even though I do not agree with the answer. I asked: If the tool isn't broken, why start fixing it specifically? At least it has given me fine opportunities not to spend my energy and energy doing things that are not broken. The minister said: "It's because I want the tool to work even better than it does, but it works really well. The concern I have about the case is that if we start doing something that's still working, we can do it with our repairs, even causing certain harm. They have not diminished in concern since the hearing was first recommended in the last assembly. First, I'd like to say that it would have been good to try to make a firm agreement here on the issues of the development teamwork, and this suggestion leads to a certain disappointment, for I myself do not know the history behind the last act of evolution unless everyone agrees that they put much effort on them to try to achieve a parapolitic agreement on the affairs of the party and the results were the laws and establishments that we now live in. As a result of this, I am sorry if we cannot settle for this important matter at the Council today. We also know that this idea is not to appear for the first time now, we know the story behind it. This has been suggested several times, and ministers have reacted differently. When assigned to the minister of foreign affairs, Davíð Oddsson signed a Regulation in 2005 where all development teamwork, multi-sided and 2-sided, was transferred from the Ministry to the European Development Agency. The story we've been given to hear on the Foreign Affairs Committee is that the Ministry has since refused to carry out that Regulation. I'm still wondering how it's done. This too was to be discussed in the time of Valgerður's Sverrisdóttir Ingibjörg Sólrún Gísladóttir, a foreign minister who in the time of the latter was adopted by the present arrangement and law, and it can be seen that this is an old discussion and new one. What I wondered, though, and I still feel that I have not yet been answered in this discussion about what I learned earlier in my opposition to the why. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson. As the Department of State Department of State Department of Education, the development agency is the only professional agency to handle development funds, about 40% of the developing funds, if I recall correctly or perhaps even even halved. However, the Ministry has played the role of a member of this organisation, which is now of little importance in terms of a large amount of money that is being used for projects that are not being carried out here under our noses, e.g. but in distant lands. The Ministry has had an important monitoring role there. All this work has been done in the highest part of the world's population. Ministers, members of the Ministry and Development Organization are pleased with the results. This money is being watched, it is being evaluated for its results, and success is not measured from other heads or other wells, for example. It is not just said: The matter has already been put on edge by 12 wells, but deeper questions are asked. It is asked: Has the work we have worked to build these wells prevented certain diseases from erupting? Has it improved the health of the people in the area? What impressed me also when we were studying these matters was that assignments were not considered to be effective. Of course, it is an eternal question when dealing with funds that are spent on projects that we cannot follow daily: How do we use the money, and how do we appreciate the results? I have found the answer to be quite convincing, and I reiterate what I said at the outset: I see only the tool to work. As we have discussed, a particular assessment was conducted, not in the Agency, but in Iceland, and in the law-and-set frames. The DAC's independent approach, the OECD development team, is estimated in Iceland and YSSI during 2016 and, as noted earlier, in my conversation with the highest standard. Then, in the memory of the section, we have emphasized that it is correct, in view of the fact that these laws that we are doing now are not old, since 2008, and that the report in Iceland did not make direct comments to the law frame, we wait for the peer criticism to get a neutral assessment of how this tool has worked to achieve the goals we want to achieve. In fact, in view of developing cooperation, I think it should be a greater concern that the Allied Council has not set ambitious goals to support much more fully this category of languages. A proposal made two, three months ago into the council, which included 0.23% of GDP for development. When we see this year's budget, it is not even 0.23%, it's just the same situation when it comes to GDP and assuming 0.21%. I just think that when we see the next assessment, the main focus will be on the fact that Iceland has failed to achieve any success in improving contributions to development cooperation. I think that's the big point, the critical point at Iceland's performance in these matters, not that these funds are not being spent well and that they are working well on development cooperation. I find it sad, especially when we look at the situation in other parts of the North and in a very large part of Europe, where this group is very well organized. In fact, in times of crisis, the British government decided to achieve the 0.7% goal set by the United Nations, which has been able to create a parapolitic stand, so that developing cooperation is not a personal matter. She shouldn't be. It is to be a parapolitic objective, both its arrangements and its financial contributions. I feel that sometimes, I just have to say, when we talk about the founding process of development, we're talking about some frame, but we're ignoring the fact that the input isn't under the name. We agreed on a much more ambitious plan in the winter of 2012-2013. All members of the council were behind the schedule outside one, after which the plan was turned away. V.E.G. A minister then proposed a new plan for spring, and the budget bill has already turned away from that program. I think this is what's broken and needs to be fixed. If I discuss this matter and the discussion that took place. The latter part of the matter was discussed by a State Department of Foreign Affairs, which would require the difference between an agent and a member of the organisation. I'm going to take advantage of this opportunity and express my doubts about the best way to carry out and control is on one hand and on the outside or on the law, too, in that way to the highest level. A minister proposes to the law on the seminary. V.E.G. The minister then conducts the party and supervises it instead of making sure that an agency with the Ministry is in charge of the project and that the Ministry has a surveillance role. I'd like to mention that, while we're obviously with a Rapporteur like the State Reconnaissance that's coming and considering, it's not that daily checkup that needs to be in place in the state of the business. We can also give examples of other problems in which the trend has been to strengthen organizations and to move projects out of the budget to better characterise their role as a policy-makers and as a policy-makers. I still haven't heard the answers to how to deal exactly with this or what we're up against, we can say, with the change of putting it all together. I have developed the criticism, and I want to reiterate that the photo of evolutionary cooperation, of course, changes from going into the Ministry. In some places it has been this way, since it has been promoted to the Ministry that they still go within the scheme of action with the group. I would also like to point out that, for example, there are some sources of information, and there are two different kinds of independent organizations. There is a great need for the public to be informed about developing cooperation, that the common people can monitor information on development and have access to information about it, and that it is very different in the information given by the Ministry and institutions on the other hand. It's just a different arm. I don't quite see how people imagine that this information will be taken care of. It has been said that it is important to coordinate operations and that Iceland uses one voice in the seminary, as if there are some terrible differences between the Development of the Agency and the State Department. No one has been able to give any examples of confusion or conflict. We kept asking about this on the Committee, and there could be no examples of confusion or conflict between the Agency and the Ministry, but we mentioned that a certain means of managing might be gained by a collective support. I'm not going to argue with you because it's definitely true, but if there's a particular argument with Iceland speaking in one voice, it's only natural that we senators ask us to have had an example of Iceland speaking in the East and West, that someone from the Ministry of Development came and said something and someone from the Bureau said something else. But no one has directly wanted to mention such an example. I don't know if it exists because it exists, but no one wants to inform the State Department members about it or if it's just that those cases don't make any sense. I'll draw that conclusion. I'd like to discuss in the end, it might be better when you discuss these matters for a second time, the proposal for the arrival of the council, the development committee proposed here. It is suggested that members of Congress, along with representatives designated by the Icelandic civil groups associated with the seminaries, representatives from the university level, representatives from the labour market, and representatives from the minister of the Board of Development Committee. This is certainly so that comments have been made to the already active colleagues' committee that it is not sufficiently active. On this point I'd like to say that, of course, it is right to ask questions about shipwork when you feel that the scene is not sufficiently active, but I wonder if we have properly carried out the guidelines of a valid teamwork committee, whether it is not to be more effective, to activate it better, and the other is what I think is at least important, to have been on the State Department at the last Parliament, that developing cooperation is one of the cornerstones of the Icelandic foreign policy. I'd be surprised if that group of litigators wasn't supposed to be central in all the work of the foreign committee. I'd love to see a new Chairman. The State Department participates in this discussion and hears her viewpoint, how she feels about the adjustment presented here on the work of the Committee and the Council. I am very interested in her viewpoint on this discussion. Maybe you can get some. The head of the State Department at a house to participate in the discussion, as this is about the arrival of the Generals. I'd like to ask a respectable president to make arrangements, if any. The head of the State Department is close, that they can come here and participate in the discussion because we need to hear her point of view and if it doesn't feel that developing cooperation is such a central part of Iceland's foreign policy - I think so, and I don't hear better than I do. A minister believes that it is - that a much more specific discussion must be made about these matters. I have sometimes missed it, and I have discussed it. True, my advances have always been appreciated. The former head of the State Department, that these issues are put into more focus at the Committee. I've believed that they had an honorable place there, so I wondered if we're not removing evolutionary cooperation from the Foreign Affairs Committee with this proposal. [[The president calls.]] But I reiterate my wish to that day. The head of the State Department is coming to the chamber.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u137	V.E.G. President. I have to admit right away that I'm no expert on the affairs of evolutionary cooperation, but I am still amazed at this intense hostility against a change that seems to me quickly to be a morphological change. It is supported by further application of the knowledge of the Ministry, the tasks that overlap, etc., and there will be an overwhelming response. Here we were in spring discussing this matter for days and it seems we're going to repeat ourselves now. I can totally understand different viewpoints on this, and I think they've been developed a long time ago. But when you're aware of all this harsh attitude toward the bill, you start to wonder if there's a fish underneath a rock somewhere. Of course, an experienced senator like me does not have what it might be. But I must say, I myself believe that small institutions, small institutions, as has been done here for many departments, are unacceptable, unfortunate. It removes first political goals, it becomes more independent in this respect, and the political responsibility of a minister becomes less clear. I think we should go the other way, strengthen the Ministry, make it more useful to the people, make them more powerful, more visible, even though Davíð Oddsson did not agree. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Top-to-door scenario: Then take in the road model.]] - That's why. But not such small institutions, for they will never be strong on their own.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u138	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. We have something different in our time, me and what. A senator, for when he comes and says that we've been discussing this matter for days in spring, it was now that we talked about it for a whole couple of days. That's not a very long discussion I would call. We're gonna go for a second. Clearly, a senator does not argue about time. He does not often watch long Japanese movies like me, and he does not have the same patience with the subjects we approach. [[Up front.]] I must admit that we were just beginning this discussion on the second day, but that may be the point. A senator has only less endurance for long discussions. About what I mentioned: Yes, it's a formalization. And as I said at the beginning, if we should be discussing something in this hall about developing cooperation, we should be discussing the fact that we are not even on top of our goal. Minister of this spring when it comes to contributions for development cooperation. We do not stand by what the Allied Congress of Iceland, all non-one members, agreed here during the last term. When it comes to contributions for development, we are miserable. That's what we should be talking about here, that's the point. That's what I'm expecting us to be criticized for when we come across peer criticism, i.e. That we are setting here the goals agreed upon by the members of each body and that are not kept because there is a new government. They believe that the new government has renewed the authority to change everything, even what they agreed to do yesterday. There's something wrong with Icelandic politicians. I think we should be discussing it. I think we should be discussing this terrible performance. I think we should be discussing how you can turn your back on the goals you approve of yesterday, just because you've suddenly come into more of it. That's what we should be talking about. The formalization itself -- yes, we've been discussing it for two days, and now we're discussing it on the third day, starting an hour ago or so. As I said before, I'm not exactly the reason for the change. I wondered why we are spending the time of the council discussing such a morphological change, which has not been sufficiently reasoned, when we should be talking about the rest,... [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Take up the front, hear, hear!]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u139	V.E.G. President. I must admit that I feel two days of morphization, and starting on the third day, a long time. Guð forbid we should spend so much time on all shapes below. [[Up front.]] - What we're supposed to do in development, how the politicians are, that's a whole different debate, let's take it later. Of course, I approach the matter in general based on my view of how an arrangement should be handled. That's why I'm on it. It may well be wise to promote the development team, expand it, then there may be some basis for such an institution. But as it is today, I do not see it as best to have it in a special institution. Rather, it could be more useful within the Ministry because of the overlap of the projects, there are also some expertise that could be used, rather than having it separately. As a result of me, the Ministry can unite the Development Agency and call it anything else. I'm just saying that I'm getting closer completely from my princes about the administrations and what may be the best thing to do. This is not only a matter of repairing a problem that is not broken but also of making the car or the device even better than it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u140	Madam President. Hv. A senator believes that there may be a reduction in institutions, even in the ministry, and that's an opinion. Hv. This is where a member of the U.S. Department of Education agreed to transfer an assignment from the Ministry of Education to create a new government agency, the Institute of Education, and he is likely to have been able to get an assignment from the Ministry of Education to the institution. I wondered if there is a lack of some consistent policy here, with the legislature and the Commission. So if we want to reduce the number of institutions and move them into the Ministry, I wondered why the greater part of the Council chose to create a new agency in spring, but I intend to reduce the number of institutions in the fall by moving them into the Ministry. I don't quite understand the policy behind it. I doubt that there is no particular course behind it, though it may be. A senator wrote this vision, which I do not remember hearing from a discussion about the National Institute of Education in our time. [[Up front.]] As I said earlier, I believe a certain project should be owned in councils and others in institutions. What I'm questioning is that the Ministry is at the same time using policy-makers, executives and surveillance. I wish we had more answers inside because I'd like to hear what I'm saying. A senator expresses his view of this. At the same time, I agree that many of us are dealing with a weak agency. For example, I don't understand why that route had begun to increase the number of councils and councils again, and I don't understand why it went to a new government, unless it was about some particular number of chairs. I think the Ministry needs to be loaded in order to be able to function as a proper unit of government. But it's not so much of a top goal that the Ministry is hot enough that I think they're supposed to do all kinds of things. [[The president calls.]] I just ask: How does the Ministry of Education, for example, keep an eye on cultural institutions that will be heard if all of them are inside the Ministry of Education?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u141	A respectable president. Like the last winter, I find myself opposed to this matter and for the same reasons as for many reasons. One of them is the one mentioned above, and I don't understand why in this case it is proper to take a professional position - because developing cooperation is a trade - into the Ministry. To me, it's like, with the same reasoning as why. paritaprevir The Brynjar of Níelsson's son was with him before, that it was reasonable to take more and less of all the institutions of the Ministry. Of course, these are all agencies that deal with issues under the Ministry, and they can be reasoned that they always overlap in some way. There is no question about that evidence. I would have seen that in our last term, we had been let through by taking a travel agency into the Ministry of Industrial Affairs, but it just didn't occur to anyone. That's a different idea because the projects are different. In this case, such delicate matters as development cooperation must include professional people who cooperate with the seminary. Developmental cooperation is a major factor in the areas in which it is applied, and it is important that it be respected for the trade and thus its resulting independence. So I want to ask you why. A senator whether it is in her mind any other such institutions that we could see this government treat in a similar way. I am completely incomprehensible, and men are in complete conflict with themselves by taking this trade office into the Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u142	Thank you. A senator, my daughter Júlíusdóttir, for this answer. What I find is that there is no total policy on these matters. For example, there may be institutions that live inside the council. I will take one example of an institution that was then united. Whether this institution belongs in the Ministry, it is the modern Minja Institute that formerly served as a building committee and archaeological protection, was discussed there. Of course, a house - peace committee was a very small institution, two employees, or something like that. It was decided to unite and be converted into an administrative agency, which is now under the Ministry of Presidency, not the Ministry of Education and Culture. You wonder: " How, for example, is it possible for such institutions to be in the administrative departments? The conclusion was that it was not the right way to go. I'm not going to rule out that there may be some organizations that belong within councils, I'm not going to rule it out at all, but the views that are likely to arise, especially with small organisations, are in the way that they should combine something else, and even problems. Of course, the role of the ministry and the role of the agency should be considered. Most institutions have defined a role, which is usually carried out on a course set aside elsewhere. In this case, it is a development team, which is founded by a minister, but also by the legislatator. Then there is the monitoring of policy follow-up. I think it's a lot when we look at institutions, because there's a slight tendency to speak down the public system, that there's a lot of institutions here that are really unnecessary and are not able to do their job, that there's a certain point of thought in this. It is true, however, that sometimes you feel that decisions that are not necessarily made in harmony with one another, although there is some absolute thought that depends on the viewpoint I was referring to here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u143	A respectable president. My conclusion is that there are men here in perfect contradictions with themselves. So one wing is claimed to be here to promote professional views, etc. But, really, it's just some sort of finey thing that doesn't matter. It's just a word. In this way, when a person enters the Ministry, it has become some sort of cohesion that has nothing to do with it. I think it's strange, and I think it's argumentative. paritaprevir Brynjar, son of Níelsson, can refer to any agency under any department. You can't just argue in this case and do things just because the minister wants to do this. There's no reason. You need to offer more professional, deeper, and better reasons. A respectable president. I will not continue with that part of the matter. But, hey. A senator, one of the presidents of the European Commission, has requested the review of The Kingdom Review by a letter on this subject in the last winter, i.e. that the President of the Parliament agreed to make a review of the Agency. I'd like to ask you what. A senator has information on what had to be done. When is she due? I know why. A senator to help the minister in some way follow such a assessment or to determine whether it is based on evidence? Is such a assessment still to be expected?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u144	Madam President. Yes, we requested a review of The State Reexamination, but she concluded that such an assessment should not be planned in advance. That was the answers we received, so we haven't got anything out of it. We also requested a more thorough report from the highest level. Minister we got this spring now. I have to say that it was a measure of disappointment that the State Accounting didn't think it was right to make such an assessment, but we, of course, take that answer. What I think is the big thing here is that we always have to examine every institution professionally. Although this is a morphological change, why things are the way they are. The concept in this case is that the professional work, the implementation of the policy, is better off in an independent organisation. We can only wonder, because discussions about organizations have only begun, what we think of, for example, that the Weather Service is part of the Environment Ministry. Would it be normal for us to see that a research agency such as the Weather Service was directly under a minister? [[But thou shalt say, The armour of the son of Niel is found.]] We can ask ourselves, " How would I feel about various institutions that we have, the Power Institute, the Institute of Natural Science, and all these institutions? ' I am impressed, too, because it has been mentioned here that it would be best to have institutions in the councils, why the government now has to perform either a project from councils or the Ministry. I also find it a little strange to see that there is no harmony between different schemes on these matters. Since I am a great fan of the deep and thorough discussion, I think that this kind of discussion can give us even closer reason on the subject. So I think it's very important. Congress officials wondered, " Is there not a need for some perspective in this series, where are my assignments at home? '
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u145	Madam President. It's been an interesting discussion tonight, but it's leading us a little bit away from what I think it's about. Sure, it's some kind of morphization, but to me, it's a lot more professional. It has been shown here that it does not reflect the nature of the Agency or whether it belongs within a ministry or outside. I'm trying to understand this case and the Minister's presentation now, as when we discussed it here last time, but I still don't understand why the Agency needs to be put down and transferred into the Ministry. It would be classy in the administration like we were talking about earlier. At times, it seems appropriate to have the subject within the Ministry and sometimes not. It has been said that one of the key roles of the Ministry of State is developing cooperation. Because it was dealing with economic issues today, tax issues, and it's also a question of whether it's the highest. The Secretary of Economics and Economics of the Bjarni Benediktsson would think of taking over the governor of the tax. Of course, this is not true in almost every case when agencies need to be independent and professional that they are within the council. As to the comments of the Self - Proliferation Agency, I agree that this issue has not been made in this issue how to achieve goals in the light of the proposed proposals. The minister explained it no more now, I felt, but last. Like many others, I'm concerned that all the policies that have been carried out in a development - working agency go courtyards because there's too much powder in reorganizing and actually starting work again in the Ministry instead of taking advantage of the knowledge where it is. Not that everyone gets a job or wants a head start at their new job. I think it's better to use the experience. I also think the money is better used by keeping it intact. There is nothing fundamental to the report that shows that better results are achieved by doing this as presented here. I'm just going to quote here in the 2008 Sigurgeirsdóttir's report. Like I said when we discussed this case again, I feel like the report has been passed. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ In a oral report to the Council on November 8th. In view of increased donations for professionalism, a minister decided that Iceland became a member of the Economic and Development Committee for Development and Development of the Agency. This gave Iceland direct access to experience and information useful to developing activities and the planning of developing cohesion, as well as to the assessment of the development of member countries every four years. Member of the Committee aims to ensure the quality of development cooperation and provide an important professional support. There's also been talk of waiting for the FAC report. There seems to be no reason for that, according to the Minister's opinion. I don't really understand and I still don't understand why this is a priority. Is that, as mentioned earlier, because there's so little else at the Department of State, outside of EU regulations releases? At any rate, it has not been shown in a statistical comparison or in any way that significant savings in sums or efficiency in the activities of this case will be the result of bringing a development community service into the Ministry. I'm going to continue to quote the report. It states on page 19. 15, with President's permission: ▪ The SISSI and the multi-time development team within the Ministry would weaken professional policy in developing cooperation. Such integration would reduce the ability of the Ministry to establish internal measures for decision making and thereby strengthen the professional policy. ◯ Later, says: In the same way as political intervention by the international and security sectors can strengthen the preliminary and diplomatic awareness in the implementation of development cooperation and peacekeeping in the developing community, professional internal development within the Ministry of State can strengthen the development of both the SISSI and the development of the Ministry's team. As I said before, the work that was done there seems to have not been discussed to any extent or conceived as a foundation for the paper we're dealing with today, but it appears to be primarily considered the only assessment as the highest. The minister had it done for him. It's a little special, if we just think about it in Generalis's work, that there seems to be a lot of evidence about the same thing over and over again. It is not surprising, then, that people ask: Is a particular conclusion being sought? What has changed during this period of time? I don't realize that, Mr. Honorable President. I really care about developing cooperation, and I'm going to the highest. Ministers only that he is, as well as many other members of the council. I think we all want Icelanders to do well in developing cooperation and not be submerges of other nations. Sadly, we have not been successful in meeting the standards set. Of course, when you think about how to expand your development team or do well with this group, it is not the first thing you think of setting him up in the Ministry of State, whether the jury or anything else. To do so is not a step forward or structure to the group of compromises. I also find it remarkable, in view of the last discussion, that there is not yet a search for political solidarity, consultation, or anything like that. It was done 2008 and went very well. Then significant changes were made in these legislation, as we know, and in all the setting. It seemed good. So, of course, you ask, " Why is it not now that we have not yet been answered? ' It also includes, as we have traced here, a paradox on the case structure when the Agency is doing well. In itself, there is nothing wrong with her. This bill does not seem to be responsible for the fact that the Agency has done something particularly bad or not quite good, although there is always something you can do better, as in everything else. Of course, it should be our goal in all our jobs, not just in this appointed institution. This report, for example, does not say that there are problems to be solved, coordinated more effectively, and ensures that they speak in one voice or so. You don't realize what's going on. I can't see that considering what has been traced here, how it was done before. One minister tried to take more work to this institution, further it. It was a regulation written by the Ministry Department that at its time the secretary refused to sign, including the surrogate. Finally, Snævarr, an ambassador, got Susvarr to sign the Regulation. It is quite remarkable, in fact, if we think that the management is working in this way. This discussion stated that at the time the Ministry had said it would never be respected. Then you ask: " Who really is in charge? Who controls and makes the political decisions it is based on? Who wants this project? As here was originally attributed to the first public speaker of the government field, why. Skarphéðinsson That seems to be the first case the Ministers receive, i.e. moving this agency to the Ministry. That's what you see over the years. This goes through many ministers and has not been able to pass, so this does not seem to be a political minister's will. Is that all right, Mr. Honorable President? I also ask, because before this, the president of the Foreign Affairs Committee was asked to attend this discussion, if it had been proposed to obtain it, a respectable president. This is going in there, so it is extremely unusual that the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee is not following the discussion and not participating in it. There is, of course, a new chairman who was not in the discussion last time. This is too big a matter to allow for the failure of the chairman. So I ask, Mr. President, has it been proposed to bring in the chairman of the foreign committee? As the decision-making process moves farther away, as is inevitable when it is transferred into the Ministry, although it is certainly going to be in the field, I'm not going to say anything else, everything will be better in the field, and the decision process will take longer. I'm sorry. We have experienced in our own eyes that the ministry does not directly show the results of its work in some measurable way. However, it is not that I feel that the Ministry is not to oversee policy and surveillance on its own, but development and development services are to be carried out. That goes with what the National Accounting has said on this subject. A government review has warned of the arrangement that one party against the policy, carry it out, and monitors it. That must weigh a lot. According to a government review, it is normal for the Ministry to counter policy, under the guidance of the General Assembly, to be carried out by the European Parliament's Development Agency, and to be carried out by the Ministry by firewall. This is going to be the best. Secretary of State to ignore. Of course, it's a lot of money. As I said, there is no surveillance or measurable ratings at the Ministry, so we'll expect there to be a slight slight disregard for what the money goes in there, about 15 to 1.5 billion, or something like that, and we'll be less able to monitor it. A developing cohesion agency provides regular results and is a special part of the budget so that we have much to say about it. We'll also see what the Agency's doing. We can't tell when the jury goes directly under the Ministry. There are also many things in the work of the Development Agency that I don't see in my mind that the Ministry is doing here to keep us informed, such as our website and the World Light That regularly comes out, weekly reminds me of, and a lot of information that comes out there. The report describes increasing information flows and other things, but I can't see that this is happening by moving it into the Ministry. Parapolitic alliances need to be established with an increase in the arrival of members of Congress. This is not the way. I'm sorry, but I think it's dangerous for democracy to be able to increase its power in the way this is done. [[The president calls.]] That's what the Ministry's going to do when organizations come in like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u146	President. I thank the senator for her insight into this strange matter, which I think in many respects is. She says that she looks at it mostly from a professional standpoint. I agree with her that it's our duty to do so. People have been talking about what they do with administrative institutions and so forth. I can't see that the development community is a direct administrative agency, but the people working there are naturally with a completely different knowledge, and in a whole different field of work than the general state service, which is also a diplomacy, is also a profession, but a completely different profession than developing cooperation. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Parliament: This matter was discussed last year, and some reviews have been received. Does she see any part of her work being done last year when this was revised? Isn't this just more and less moving in the same image we had last year? So it seems that it is quite determined to do whatever anyone says.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u147	Mr. President. You see, it is. The reason I'm back in this conversation is really because I don't like it, I don't think it makes sense, I really care about this institution and what it's been up to. The criticism that came to the meeting of the State Department - I don't sit there, but it seems, as I see it, this is not really taken into account, but it is a determined will, it seems to be, the Minister of State, or as I said before, it's a matter of concern when each foreign minister after another seems to be getting this proposal to do it, because it's been attributed to the former U.S. Army that it was tried repeatedly. That's why I ask myself, " What interests are really up there. ' You wonder that there may be a decrease in the number of people who do not have a job or who do not want it to receive a due. It is also the same arrangement here, as it was at the National Institute of Education, where institutions were laid down and if people didn't want a job in the new institution, they were not entitled. Although this is what the Agency is talking about - then it is also the expression used, not that it is put down and carried or carried under, but when it is put in. Still, this is done in ways that employees will not be granted remuneration if they do not want to work at the Ministry. It seems to me that I have no consideration for the information and the comments that were presented there.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u148	President. Hv. A senator spoke of what we here, in my memory and in my case, are most of us good. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson reviewed the last season of drumming with a new plan for developing cooperation, which was so nearly the first act of a new government to stop and we did not live up to our own plans. I guess we can get in the peer company that's coming -- I don't know what it's like, it's coming 2016, I'm surprised that I don't have the patience to wait for her - but I guess we could be expected to get a word in our ears about how people should live up to the commitments that it gives to themselves and to others. Perhaps the same is true of what you give to yourself. Hv. The senator is on a budget committee. I would like to ask her if she was employed on that committee - because it's a natural practice if agencies are some sort of troublemaker in the system or are overindulging in money or how to say it - that a developing research agency has been found to be critical for failing to handle financial matters and fail to pass financial laws.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u149	Mr. President. No, and that may now be one of the things you think about in this context when it comes to an institution that has done very well, it has been given very good decisions about everything it is doing, even if everyone can improve their work. We too can be like others in our work, but we are well - described as a top - ranking organization. When they visited us on a budget committee, there was basically nothing more than a positive debate, because the data and results and other developments presented showed that the Agency was doing well. The Agency also provided information on where they felt they could do better and in what way and how they would like to do so. She also wanted to complete this period until next year's report was published. Then a reevaluation would be made, and if the ministry and the rest as well as the members of the council considered to be a reason to follow the steps being taken, then at least this would be the period in which it was proposed to consider the activities of today. But it just doesn't seem like it's going to be. It is this determined desire to take care of this in a great deal of conflict with all too many, against all professional and professional matters, and against what the National Reconnaissance says that one side of the policy is acting and keeping an eye on it. I think it's very important that they say this here. I agree that it is quite normal for us, the Ministry, to receive policy by the Generals, the Development Organization, and the Ministry to conduct this operation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u150	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a bill to a song that seems to have one clear objective, i.e. ... toputdownthe development community of Iceland and deliver the operation under the tip of the State Department's umbrella. There's a lot of things going on in the bill, in the bill's report. For example, on page 22. 5 of the report, by permission of the President: In accordance with the bill, the Agency's project will move to the Ministry and the Agency will be submitted. This is repeated in the bill. What do I do, old president of the BSRB, when we introduce a system change? First, I'll check the personnel section. I hold back from what it says, by permission of the president: A provisional regulations in the bill are expected to include all of your personnel being offered a job in the Ministry. That's a good statement. It would be good if it were true, but it's not true. We learned this earlier this evening at the beginning of the discussion that the head of the United States had been writing a letter and that he will be relieved of his work to accomplish this bill. It's work we don't accept and should not accept. I wish for the highest. In view of the criticism that has been shown in this arrangement, regarding this point, the minister of state is here to explain whether it could really be right to be on the job, to deprive the employee, the director, of his work. Now it has been presented in the highest case. Ministers, as I have heard in the language of the highest, there is a very good and serious employee here. Secretary of state. That is why we need to get a detailed explanation for what is on the table. If it is true that a letter of this kind was written to the current head of development, it conflicts with what the bill says, since it says that the Agency's personnel will be offered a job in the Ministry's wall in the field of development research, which applies to all except this one employee. We need to get an explanation for this. It matters. As a general rule, it may be healthy in companies and public institutions. It may be helpful to attack a system change. At that time, however, a clear goal is needed. What for? People don't just change. I've been president of the BSRB for the third ten years, 21 years. I've been exposed to many efforts and implementation of public system changes. It has been very variable, but starting the road in disunited is always bad. It seems to me that this bill or the suggestions presented here do just that. The bill, and the planned system changes, has a high degree of inadequacy. There's some disagreement about these changes. Then I have to say, whoever wants to change and is so eager to change that he's putting this forward as his first bill, like the highest. A minister of state does, has on his shoulders something called the burden of proof. He needs to convince us of why these changes are taking place. It's not for money -- we're told - we're not supposed to save anything on this, but the only thing that's really involved is in the report in two places. I allow me to quote the report on page 18. 6, with President's permission: In addition to the government's voice speaking of international development cooperation, it is also possible to ensure that all contact with foreign countries and developing institutions are coordinated and in harmony with Iceland's foreign policy. Don't we? Isn't that done? Do we not need reasons for this statement? Of course, it is important for the Icelanders and the Icelandic government to speak in one voice in a foreign field, where we are introducing our course. But do we not? Why not explain how this is not done? Here is another report from the bill, by permission of the President: With the change, there will be a better overall view of the group, and it will be better to ensure that Iceland's legal policy is carried out.• Isn't that done? Don't we need to get a grammatical argument about this, about these alleged offenders? Isn't that what we're supposed to be talking about? It is not enough to make such claims without any material moisture. Of course, this should be the case, for the burden of proof rests with those who want to change. Now we're attacking public system changes in various areas. There is one general line, one general objective. What is it? It's not just Iceland, that's what we're talking about in many parts of the world. The general objective is this: trying to distinguish between policy and implementation, that there are different people involved. It's heading in the opposite direction. From the last century onward, a developing cohesion agency has a long and significant history. There have been various changes to the arrangements, including the management of the Agency. Changes were made in 2008, again in 2012. What was, in effect, being done was moving the government in many ways closer to the Ministry than keeping the distance in place. What is being done now is said to shift the government a little from the Ministry, but the operation into the Ministry. It is such a trend that is on the contrary to what is being tried to achieve elsewhere in the management board through a system change. Who would speak for such changes most intensely? Are there any systematic factors that might have a clear explanation? Yeah, I think so. Who are they and where do they lie? They're at the Ministry. Now, I don't want the State Department officials to hurt anything, of course I don't want to do it, but I just want to talk about the obvious interests of those who run the plots to get a lot of money under their wings where there may be a way to put money back and forth. There's nothing dishonest about which I'm talking about in this subject, however, I'm talking about a position that is likely to be present in the plots. Let's not forget anything else, chief. President, that we have been invited to see light in the council halls of the government's prime address on public financial matters. What does that bill involve? Yes, among other things, the role of the Executive Director, the Council, is strengthened at the expense of the council. What does that mean again? I'm referring to a tip that came from the reason. paritaprevir Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir was to discuss this case last spring. It warned that there would be a greater transparency if the Agency was independent and separated from the Ministry. Now I further show that we are receiving a bill on public finances that increases the practice area and authority of the council. It's on those grounds, the highest. Mr. President, who I allow to criticize, most of all, these changes. They violate the main aims of the Commission, to differentiate between policy measures, and to perform. The project is being transferred into the Ministry under its wings. It's not very good. There is a danger that this arrangement will become apparent. I could understand, however, if there were very clear evidence that this was in some way an advantage, but I don't see that argument, it's not in the paper with the bill. They weren't hearing the highest language. Secretary of state when he spoke for the case. It's just this: putting down the agency and bringing it under the Ministry. There's nothing new that the State Department and its employees wanted to establish this arrangement. There has been a continuing wish within the Ministry for a long time because it is viewed as the interests of the Ministry and as a means of strengthening this vast amount of money into it and its power. I'm counting, chief. Mr President, we're due in the opposite direction. Then there is the question: What is the rush? It has been noted that the OECD Development Committee is developing a special assessment of the structure of development partnerships and that the results of this assessment are available in the next year. Why don't we wait for that assessment? Is it not advisable to wait for her? When Iceland joined OECD, a report on Iceland was made specifically, or it was published in a report made on the provision in Iceland. I miss the fact that the article "What Did It Happen? " because there were no less condemnations on the trip. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I think this case should be put on ice and we should be waiting for the DEC assessment committee. The other I don't want to wait for, to hear logical support at the highest. Secretary of State for the loss of the Agency's work this bill will succeed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u151	A respectable president. Thank you. He's got a senator in here. I'd like to agree with what he says about the treatment of the director of this institution who is determined to settle. He points out that it is actually wrong in a paper with the bill that all employees will be offered a job in the Ministry because it is clear that one is not offered a job at the Ministry. Hv. A senator, as he himself said, has been working for a long time on the government's staff and is familiar with them throughout and in. Maybe it's perfectly justified, maybe it's legal. I'd like to ask you what. A senator to see if this is legal. I think it's weird. I'd like to ask you what. The senator's experience with the above, that the employees who don't take jobs in the Ministry will be deprived of their clients, it is made clear. Has it been customary in the government's personnel to say, "We're putting down the job you're in, we're moving it somewhere else, it's going to be in a completely different setting. If you don't agree, dear, you don't have a reward? But it's the contract rights of the government. Well, maybe. A senator told me something about that?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u152	V.E.G. President. I'd like to be very careful to interpret what is being said here, but the report says that if an employee accepts a similar job in terms of dressers, tasks and positions, the remuneration is not paid, i.e. If he accepts a job within the Ministry, he has no right to repay. Now let us remember that by the change in 1996, which went into effect at the beginning of 1997, the remuneration court was actually taken away. It is said that if a person accepts comparable jobs with comparable terms, he will not receive a reward. So this is something that needs careful consideration. I have to say, we have to be very careful with the personnel cases because we haven't always done it. I'll mention it, for example. Because the changes in transportation facilities during the last term were a prelude to the fact that people did not lose their jobs. Then, during the organizational adjustments in the Association Office earlier this year, people were laid off. It was contrary to the promises and promises we had made. That's why I say that what's written in such a legal bill must be true, but obviously it doesn't stand for one person, who is the head of the Agency. About a question why. The senator's terms on the remuneration rights and other employees' rights are the factor I would like to do much better.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u153	President. Hv. The senator is a careful man. I think I'm going to follow his example in these matters, and that's all I'm gonna say. I think it's kind of a forced transfer of people between here and there. I'm not going to go into it further, but this shows that everything that is discussed here needs careful consideration. I think there's a small special law on the fact that five members of the Parliament are to sit on a development committee and that it is a fall to bring the council closer to the Agency. I can't quite tell. The Senator has a lot more Congress experience than I do so that he may be able to express his opinion on it. In other words, there should not be one member of each body, that is clear, because there are now six members of Congress here. It is noted elsewhere that there should be reports every other year and that there should be a plan of action. I wondered if it would be easier for me to keep the council informed by reporting each year and then conducting a routine every other year if the case goes through. And even if it would not be settled in the case of a developing research agency, the minister would report it once a year to the council and what the Ministry is thinking about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u154	V.E.G. President. I'm going to make one confession, it's this: I haven't given much thought to the changes being made in the development team committee and the possible arrival of the council. I cast on the counter, because these are worthy speculations on the part of each other. paritaprevir Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir, whether it had been a serious project for us to cope with possible changes in the management of this important government. Developmental and evolutionary cooperation take on a large amount of money. I guess that's about 6.5 billion bucks. ... whogo into it. I don't know how much is running through a developing research agency, but that's a lot of money. It is very important that we be careful about the coming of the assembly and the approach of those who have policies or who are involved in the recruitment process. In fact, this has been done in recent years, a 2008 report has been referred to, as well as a legal adjustment in 2012. I think the year 2015 would be a good idea for us to take this part specifically and discuss it instead of scraping the whole battery into the Ministry of State, as suggested in the bill. I think that's a step too big, especially in view of the fact that there's a lot of disunition on the subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u155	Mr. President. It seems to me in all of this that this is a kind of personal ◯Vanddetta to the highest degree. A minister to the director of an institution who has not hesitated to comment on the committee meetings and who has not hesitated to answer all our questions. In his opinion on behalf of the Agency, it is quite clear that meetings conducted by the Agency's staff with the Denial Committee are grossly misinformed by the Ministry. This revealed the officer of his day, but it was at the end of the council so that nothing was left to discuss it here, but this is already the case. Because of the highest. This position is very difficult for a minister to arrive at, but it is a expedition against this institution and its director. It is rather subversive, with the fact that when it reaches its highest level. Ministers are visiting Africa to cooperate, but he takes a group of members from the Ministry with him, but none from the administration of the Agency. I don't know that it happened before, at least Don't throw me any less to do that. It is totally unnatural when a person begins to consider a project of a certain institution that the director of the Agency is excluded from that journey. When you put it together, there's a management board that's on everything, a whole different plan than we've ever known. I'd like to ask you why. paritaprevir Do Jónasson's son Aggund: Does he believe that the minister's attitude toward the director who appeared in opposition to the minister of the past and shows that he was not going to be retreated, opposed to the relevant regulations of this bill that he has in his hands? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u156	V.E.G. President. All I do is read what is stated on the bill that refers to the Agency's staff and what they will do to the bill. Now it may be that the director of the Agency is hired on grounds other than others, but he is an employee and is familiar with the one here. I would have thought that a step to the highest. A minister could now proceed with this discussion by stating that he would fulfill this bill would be his intention to reinvigorate the director or on the same grounds that would apply to other employees and report in a paper with the bill. I think there's something that would have to be done to the discussion here tonight or tomorrow or whenever it is now that the bill will be discussed in a committee. Before that happens, we need to have this clear statement made by the highest authority. Secretary of State that the same applies to the management of the Agency and its other employees as clearly stated in the report with the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u157	Mr. President. I'm asking why. paritaprevir Ögmundur Jónasson: Why does a clear statement need to be made? Minister? If this bill becomes legal, it's totally clear that everything in it has to be heard. That's what the bill says and what. A senator read earlier that all of your regular staff, there were no exceptions, should be offered a job in the Ministry at comparable terms and with a similar status. According to the words, if the bill becomes the law, it'll get to the top. A minister does not refrain from offering a position similar to that of a presiding overseer. That's what I'm talking about. A senator wouldn't agree with me on that? What it's all about is that I understood the most. A minister so that if the bill did not become legal and he failed to force his will here through the council to lay down the Agency, he was not going to re-enact the Agency. He has declared that the employee is selective and cannot be found at all in his jobs. Well, maybe. A senator blames me for concluding that this is the highest. The minister of waving the serpent, and he is going to tutor the director for telling the truth, for giving all the information, and for being faithful to him and telling him that when he was asked that he felt it would be incorrigibly to shut down this institution? That's what this is all about. This is the Mexican burden of the case. The minister is going to box a director who has allowed himself to speak for free when members of the council asked him to do so. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u158	V.E.G. President. That's exactly what I think this case is very serious. That's exactly why I took up the case at the beginning of my case. That is, indeed, the correct understanding of what is happening. Senator, commander. The former minister of foreign affairs, that, in effect, we do not need a statement of this kind because the text in the bill's solution, in a paper with the bill, is completely clear and clear. Hence, the conclusion is: The senator, in effect, was right. I thought it would be a great idea. A minister would come back and explain what he is doing and whether he would not be able to comply with the regulations contained in this bill. As a matter of fact, I hope it is not legal now, that we have the wisdom to put it on ice and wait for groundwork or reconnaissance work or diagnostic work at all, rather than for the agency we are involved in, and through development to do in OECD.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u159	A respectable president. It is not surprising when many have taken the matter into consideration that a person will cut a little of the same knee in his presentation. That will undoubtedly happen in my speech tonight when we discuss the highest bill. Secretary of State on changing the law of international development, which is, in fact, the bill for suggesting that Iceland's Development Cooperative Agency be put down. I've thought of discussing this matter a little on the basis of the standards common to the people of good government and professional management. I believe with this decision it is a great reduction in the professional development team in this case. By this decision, if it becomes reality as it is headed, it is actually going against the policies established in the administration board for the past few years, i.e. that policies are in the hands of politicians, but the implementation and professionality of independent institutions and professionals. As a result, I view the bill as unthinked, and as a result, I become more convinced as more is presented in this discussion of what is taking place. I believe that in the light of good and normal administrative practices, taking this step is returning, as with good evidence the Ministry is actually able to take on the professional part of this job. The fact that the Ministry is, what should be said, a real cow, or the ability or staff to work on projects in the same way that has been done in the development of the Agency for this institution as an independent agency, can be questioned. In any case, doubts have been raised that this is true of professionals who have reason to be serious. The goals of change are widely expressed in the bill. There is talk that there will be no change in policy or activities, that all employees will be hired forward -- it does not show that the bill does not stand for the manager to continue, and there may be a particular concern, a somewhat disturbing tone in it. But to think at this point, what is stated in the bill's report, it says that all employees will be able to keep their jobs, in fact, to turn down that good offer, as stated in any case. paritaprevir It's Bjarnadóttir's Valgerður. If they refuse a good invitation, they will not get a reward; that is a clear letter on the page below. 9. And there's a bit of a scary tone in it too. In other words, employees will continue to be hired. In other words, the goal is not to save. All you can see that this means is an ostentatious and inexplicable provision for money. Let us take a closer look at the organization proposed to be laid down. The European Development Agency of Iceland has recently carried out assignments in sub-Saharan Africa, Malawi, Mozambique, and Uganda, all of which were defined as the focus of an international development programme for Iceland's 2011 to 2014. It has been a geothermal project in Nikaragua, and emphasis on building a basic service in the poor regions, building a water supply, providing health care, and providing advice on the management and use of resources, especially in fishing and geothermal use. Thus, this agency has sought and played a vital role in trusting in the infrastructure of all its human resources and education and equality. It has supported improvements in both investments to produce water, health issues, and especially in the health of children and mothers. It's an institution with 40 years of experience in evolution. It has started in 1981, replaces an older organization that had served for 10 years, the office called The European Commission in the developing countries. Therefore, it builds up its work on the foundation of the former organisation, so within the development network, knowledge and professional ability have been developed to carry out the Agency's tasks, decades of cumulative experience and knowledge, and in recent years, it has been combined with the work of 40 to 50 persons in the work done by the Agency and in the main office. Now the government's just putting it down and moving the projects into the Ministry of State, as they say. All personnel except the director, as mentioned in the discussions here tonight, should continue, no change in the operation, and then I ask: "What are the restrictions? If there is to be no change and no economy is involved, what is being done to disrupt the important work being done by the Agency? As we noted earlier this evening: If the tool is okay, what does the repair mean? Of course, this is a rough message and shocking message for other government directors and does not promise a good deal of professional independence from the institutions in general and in general. I have to admit that there is a threat to the air during this discussion, on the one hand, in the light of this and the other, that we discussed the petition of the employees who refused a job at the highest level. State Department. The logical support for this decision is also largely reduced. When the first issue was presented, it was said to prevent the overlap between policy and implementation and to reduce adverseness and double action, as it was said. In fact, the words from the report by Þórir Guðmundsson, a writer who is, in fact, an excellent and widely appreciated writer of the Red Cross, are correct to point out, and it may have been presented here in the discussion. It seems so unfortunate in this context that the Red Cross is really a competitive member of the Development Organization, both financial and project. In view of this, it is certainly unfortunate that the staff of the Red Cross makes a report that is then used as evidence to lay down this institution. It may also be true that although the terms are used, they do not appear in the case of Þórir or in the bill itself. Since we're talking about reports, it can be noted that the report made in 2008 by Sigurbjörg Sigurgeirsdóttir made of this institution that it would weaken professional policy development in moving the Agency into the Ministry. In fact, reports have been made that show the benefit of bringing projects from the Ministry into the Development Research Institute. Of course, it must also be thought that a State Accounting has emphasized in comments to the government that there is a separation between execution and supervision, but as is now being carried out by the development of government policies and then by the General of the Council. The change presented here is contrary to that. This has been shown in the 2012 report by the OECD development committee, a so - called DAC committee, that the Icelanders are commended for their efficiency and success in developing cooperation. The DAC committee came in this report with indications that the importance of sharpening policy development and dividing funds into two-sided and multi-sided development co-work because during the time of writing that report was planned to increase the amount of donations for development cooperation. This policy has certainly changed in the past of the present government, which goes further with a suggestion to simply put the Agency down. Mr. President. This proposal, this bill, is in my eyes a crisis, although only because the DEC Committee is now making an assessment of the Developmental Research Centre, and this assessment will soon reflect on the day. Why not wait for that conclusion rather than take the step of the flubber? They are taking professional jobs out of the hands of an independent agency and drawing it into the minister's hot political bosom. The result will be indiscriminate with decision-making and the selection of tasks and the unenforcement of funds. That, on its own, is a return. It is a step that violates professional structure in our administration. Mr. President. The situation that lies before it is rash. It sets a bad example, and it is frightening for the sake of independence and professionalism.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u160	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. Þorvarðardóttir For a good talk, I'd like to hear it from Kjerphon the Lord's daughter. I want to agree with her that I find it remarkable that there is no evidence that there is any basis for any evidence to support the alleged ill will of the development community as it is now. I have to admit that I read the comments with the bill quite well because I was just trying to find an example that would be used and I couldn't find anything. I thought it was pretty big. I found that interesting. A senator in his speech said that the matter should now be taken from the Bureau and moved to the political bar, I can't remember if she told the Ministry, but at least it should be brought closer to the politics. I'd like to ask you about that. That's exactly what they're talking about, including. in the uniqueness of the Dena's policy, carried out in 2012/2014, the growing number of countries are strengthening the link between foreign trade, foreign policy and development teamwork. I'm asking why. A senator sees it as a good thing to do in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u161	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry and input. I agree with the senator that the argument for this design is in an image that is not convincing. It is never convincing, for example, when you see the correct quotations made directly from someone's report without an example following or following any points that can be said to feed under it. Of course, the government, the politicians, is designed to influence and shape policy. For example, the government's will in foreign affairs, the will of governments and governments in foreign affairs, is based on a policy developed in the political field, by a government at any given time, and by the council. But it is the role of professionals and institutions of the management board to work according to certain professional views, in which security and control are established that institutions gain leency and have professional independence to work on the basis of professionalism and the administrative independence and space they have been respected. It is not a good course that heads of state, for example, are not free to talk about real things that really matter, things that are based on facts. If things aren't to be said aloud or better about what goes wrong in our administration, for fear of political power, then we are decades if not centuries in advance. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u162	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. Yes, I agree, of course, that the government's role is to shape policy. But then it is a question of who should implement this policy, whether it is just the ideal thing for it to be an independent institution, as it has been. To be honest, I'm quite concerned. It'll gather when it comes together, you might say. In the 3rd. The bill discusses the development of a Cooperative Work Committee and is to appoint five members of a group of members of the General Assembly to be elected in the General Assembly. It's supposed to be more linking foreign policy with development, and I'm just worried that this is a setting where it will be easy to take the next step to the old, like before. Some decades ago, members of the Parliament have talked about the practice, and the practitioner of development or development in that he or she may be more designed for those who receive it than for those who accept it. Counts 'em out. A senator here thinks I'm going mad at conspirators right now, or does she agree that this is where we need to be on guard and think carefully about how this is going to work?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u163	A respectable president. I couldn't agree more. A senator says that we need to be very careful about it, just as she put it so nicely, to provide development support on the basis of what provides, not on grounds of the other person's needs. What's between them is exactly professional. It's a little similar to the school system. It is the teachers and principals who have knowledge of the internal affairs of their school, but it is the educational authorities that set out their policies on how to do secular school work in the country. Right now, the ship and the captain. There must always be a set understanding, and it is dangerous when the political power is going to go back and break this understanding, accept the internal issues of institutions, professional knowledge, and other things that have been built up and turn it into some political horse market on something quite different but that may have been approved for the work up until then. I agree with what. A senator that it isn't my knowing, good-looking development. I believe there is every reason to guard against this matter. The steps really scare. In recent years and decades, we have seen such efforts in Icelandic governments and other examples as far back as history is concerned. And that is not a good sign.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u164	V.E.G. President. Hv. A senator spoke of the presence of this matter to the promised political bosom of the minister, so it was said by poetic appeals, which now come from the mouth of this ruse. A senator, who is both verbal and practical. But, of course, this is a very serious matter, and I want to use this opportunity here in an answer to go back on that, but I also want it at the highest level. I want to discuss the matter further, which I had obviously misunderstood in my first speech. At this point, I would like to say that officials are generally hired for five years. The general rule is that they will be reinvigorated, that is, the exceptions to the publication of the work, that is, the exception. You might think of a general rule in which everyone would be accepted as a publication, but that is not the case. Hence, it would be an exception that is very unusual in the circumstances in which we live, as it has been carefully raised. I'd love to hear what you're thinking. The senator's comments on this subject are very clear because we are not supposed to let these things go away in our discussion. This is exactly what we are talking about the approaching political heat to the government's hot political brim.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u165	Mr. President. I'll agree with that with what's happened. paritaprevir For Ögmundur the son of Jónasson, this is, of course, a serious matter. This is a matter in a way that is, in a sense, an example and, as a result, very disturbing to sound government that has now seemed to be developing in a normal way over the last few decades, let's say, in the last two decades. It's a setback if you're supposed to be able to do it like this. I agree with the director's advice; if he didn't want to continue the job, it's as if he didn't say anything about it, then I thought it was normal for the man to enjoy a reward. Then I'm talking about this as a general rule in the administration. Because we were talking about the hot political bosom of the minister, you might say that metaphorically, I just didn't like it, but it's not good for the heads of the individual professionals to always have the minister's breath on the cheek, because from there can be a boring fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u166	V.E.G. President. I just want to reiterate my position that in this case it would be normal to the highest. The minister of the minister of the office of the management board of the United States has declared that he will, of course, guarantee a renewal or continued recruitment, let's say, the head of the European Development Agency, regardless of how this case works. It has been observed, both from the highest part of the mouth. A minister and of all who have studied these matters, that is, an employee who has done very well in his work, I have never heard him say anything or talk about his work and his work in ways that are different from this one.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u167	Mr. President. I agree with that, I think it's all part of it, and also because of how it's unpleasant the feeling that you get from the information that is now coming up in the discussion of the manager's death, unavoidable to hear it from the Minister's mouth once for all time, how he intends to stand exactly what part of the report is called the employee's case or application. What will be the outcome of the presiding overseer in this case? Of course, it's a very unpleasant feeling you get if it's so that government officials can't say what they are thinking or testify in a professional way because of fear of action, hostility, or dismantling political power, not getting peace of mind for the political spirit that goes down the neck of government officials. It's not a trend we want to build or tolerate in the modern - day general democracy as we would like Iceland to be. There is to be a minimum prince for good administrative practices, the separation of ground power and political power.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u168	A respectable president. The matter discussed here is an old friend from the spring council, who I felt was now talking about a tremendous period of time but why. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, explained that the discussion took place only two days at 1st. Then the matter was discussed for a long time in the Foreign Affairs Committee. I'm not going to have my speech long, but the reason why I'm here is that I admit that I was little closer after the two days and all the committee meeting on the point of these changes. I'm just going to admit that I still can't get what we just said. Minister, if I correctly understood that his own savings were not in this matter. -Advisability? I don't know what it was supposed to be in, maybe you could understand that when it went out in the sea, there would be savings. And what does that mean? Nothing in the hand. I've considered the Ministry to be, in fact, the executives, and then the executives, under contracts, under the Council and the Commission's policies, and that there would have to be an account between them. I'm going to review a few examples here. I'm going to review all the streets back to 1960, where there was a phenomenon called justice. Justice was a justice officer at the Ministry of Justice who conducted a prosecutor in public affairs. About 1961, if I recall correctly, the district attorney's office was instituted, and justice was moved from the Ministry of Justice to the office of the state prosecutor. Once again, the Haust Office, an independent agency of 1914, was taken out of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, as well as by State Review, the Ministry of Economic Affairs, etc., the Ministry has extended its institutions through the years. In fact, the strange institution, Fish Room, was the highest. In the spring, a minister of seafaring had to scour out from the seabed, so I have felt that all the government institutions would be in the opposite direction of what is happening here. I'm only going to add that the support of Iceland from developing countries began here in 1970 and that I'm probably the imagination of my fine teacher, Professor Ólafur Bjöfs Björnsson. For a decade and a half, a Councilman of Smoking became the development community of Iceland. I don't think anyone at the time ever thought of letting the State Department become an executive in this case. I'm gonna keep my case rather short and come to the point that the State Department became a developer with this transformation. That's always been my problem because for a long time, American troops were here. It was a part of the U.S. Navy for the most part of the time, and it seemed that some of the country's sovereign powers were moving. I'm not gonna argue with you, but I don't know what would have been done or said if the U.S. Department of Defense had a special situation here. So I wondered if at some point I had been asked what the host country would say when the U.S. State Department of State had become an expert in rural politics in some countries. It is the separation that causes me a little heartache, and I wondered, " What does the host country say about it, which undoubtedly makes the same thought about his sovereignty? ' Let us realize that aid to another country is not being provided, as we have noted many times here, on the basis of what helps us, but on the basis of what we receive. Certainly, the one who provides assistance needs to be qualified and willing. Well, let's hope we can help in what we know and can best, but the Supreme Being is in me. I direct my question straight to the highest. Minister of State, since he is present for the entire discussion: So has there ever been any question as to whether this project has been done since 1970, then for 45 years, may have been unnecessary throughout the entire period and whether this upcoming office and operation of the State Department of State in other countries - would be glad, or would it be the end of development cooperation? Since then, the discussion here has crystal crystal all about the director, who is now, as I may count, 66 or 67 years old, that may not be the main subject, but he himself is here, a speaker blessed, experienced tractors in the conversion of institutions. It's pretty hard for me to stand guard over a boss if he's gonna kick. I had this experience a few years ago when an institution was changed into a form to kick me in the way I would not have wanted to have it offered to others. There are these things that have been specifically presented here, the economy that are not, the director, and most important, the question I raised here regarding the operation of the State Ministry. To date, the Ministry of State has had only one operation in other countries, an office of emissary, a completely different behaviour. In many places, there have been comments that have been made if the embassy has gone beyond what the Vienna Convention says about communication between countries. I'm not gonna have my case any further. I'm starting to talk here into the night and somebody's knocking on a table. It's more than I expected, people going to answer me. A respectable president. I've finished my case for a while.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u169	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason for a very interesting talk, as he brought a brand - new friend into his discussion. I think there's only a sign that the discussion itself can be important because tonight all kinds of lawns have been rolled up. I found that interesting. A senator said that after the discussion here during the last term and after the commission work, he was not quite sure what the goal was for the bill. That's where I'll have to agree with him. All I have to say is that I can agree with most of the points presented in each speech. A senator may have been afraid of the two days. There we sense a senator's time clearly in a different way. I thought that was an interesting point of interest. A senator came in about what I think he called the Supreme Court, i.e. what the host country would say when a foreign country became a candidate. So I want to ask you why. A senator is more interested in the way that Davíð Oddsson has been taught at times, simply to carry all the development activities of the Ministry of State and the European Development Agency. [[The president calls.]] Counts 'em out. A senator's better route?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u170	A respectable president. I have to admit, I'm not too familiar with any suggestions. A former minister of foreign affairs, Davíð, the Oddsson of Oddd, who may not remember them, I believe that developing cooperation will never be pushed out of the Ministry of State. The subject of evolutionary cooperation will always be in the case of the State Ministry of State, with the disorganization of the Board of Directors. Every development team never leaves the Ministry. There will always be some development cooperation at the Ministry-Levell, as it were, in the home of the Ministry, in the country of development support. I don't think it's the highest. A former minister of state meant otherwise. But as I say, with all due notices; it is my opinion that development teamwork will never be pushed out of the Ministry. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u171	V.E.G. President. Then I would like to express my question only. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator may be right in that development teamwork is, of course, in the nature of his foreign affairs, i.e. While we are going to be developing working in a foreign country, it must be heard by the Ministry. So I want to ask you why. A member of Parliament: Is he, at least, in the opinion of maintaining a private structure in the developing community, i.e. to switch it between the State Department and the European Development Agency, but perhaps not to go so far as to push everything off the board? [[The president calls.]] Are we in the right place now?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u172	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir The Árnadóttir Þóra Aarnadótir will answer me here, which I will only vote for in due time. [[Up front.]] I believe, as discussed here in the discussion, past and later, that much has been done in Iceland's development aid, even though some have been done on our terms and perhaps because we have a certain advantage in fishing and geothermal studies. But there have been many things that have been done well, and I hope, no matter what these matters may be done, people will get in trouble because it is a problem to treat other nations where we present ourselves as guests.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u173	President. Thank you. A senator with an interesting speech. It presented many new friendships, as we have seen here. This reminds us that at times more is involved than what the eye does at first sight. Although this matter has been discussed at the last assembly, not all have gone to the grave. This is exactly what we are looking to at at the General Assembly to have a strong, objective foundation and basis for decisions and to make sure that we do not set ourselves up in smaller parts and more unconcerned matters. Rather, we try to maintain good legislation here. Like what? A senator expressed it as important, as we hope most of us here, that people will get used to it. Even if this was the first requirement for our work at the end of the day, it would not be too much. It has been observed that following the suggestion of Guðmundsson Gudmundon, a development community agency itself proposed that a Government Review be obtained to assess the administrative value of the proposal and that the DAC would be moved to speed up the proportion of the countries scheduled for 2016, but no doubt you could get it done earlier. This assessment should provide a stronger basis for the decision for continuation. So I'd like to ask you why. Senator: Does he feel that there is something to be concluded before the important assessment of the development committee OECD?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u174	A respectable president. I don't know if I'm supposed to have sworn long or short. With the night in, I think about just having it short: I feel like there's no hurry. There's no need to be messing around with organizations. I did not hear the talk earlier or by reading the report that life depended on it. If this is about the director, it is probably the easiest thing to do is not reinvigorate him, or if I remember correctly, it will be the time of the presiding officer who was born in 1949. As I say, I'm just gonna keep this brief, I've got plenty of time left and I'm not gonna waste my time here. I'm just saying there's no hurry.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u175	President. I couldn't have said it better myself. There's no need to go with organizations if the objective isn't clear and all the facts are not available. It's all right here when it's late midnight that the discussion is drawn together in such a clear way, since that is exactly what has been pointed out in the busy members of the Parliament that the reasons for this proposal are the highest. Ministers are still very vague. I'll be happy if it's all right. A senator agrees with the one mentioned here at least that this may be a stop and that the ground may be considered more carefully, for the National Reconclusion has itself warned of the arrangement that one person is opposed, does, and monitors the course. [[The president calls.]] It's not what. A senator agreed with me that this is exactly what we need to be careful about when making normal and reasonable preparations for the administration?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u176	A respectable president. I traced it in my speech that it has been evolution, at least in this century, as it did in this century, to separate the European Commission and the administrative institutions. In effect, this process began right away in 1914 and perhaps when the home administration began, and this is where domestic institutions began. Although doing so is a most convenient control, self - monitoring is not always good. Once again, I have plenty of time left, but I'm not going to extend my case. I'll finish my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u177	Mr. President. It's bad luck. Minister, but it's probably a loan. A senator says he's an intelligent being. He will not be called to trial unless he is absolutely certain of what he is going for. Hv. In the past evening, a member of the council was told that this matter had been filled with many debates, and he was surprised when he was informed that there had been no more than a day or two here in the council. The reason for this was why. A conscientious member of a committee meeting served many committees to discuss this matter. It was cut to the heart and to the kidneys, all in search of them. It is the conclusion that after all that passage, this intelligent man, a member of the Independence Party, sees no amount of savings. He doesn't see economy, and he doesn't usually know what he's doing. Minister's about to go on this mission. But he's not alone, so we're all on his own. No one has been able to explain what is up to the U.S. Senate or State Department. Minister. I don't think this case was originally about a person or anyone. It's starting to get bad, and it's really bad. I simply think that the highest. To present the matter, a minister was deceived by his officials. He was in trouble with it, but he has no other issues, and that is why the core of foreign policy, as it appears from the highest point of view. A minister is putting down a development community service agency. He hasn't learned from history that way. paritaprevir Will Bjarnason's idea that organizations are not to be affected only if there is some purpose for that expedition. And I'd like to ask. A senator: Does he see any particular evidence, something that can be used as minimal justification, other than making three new ambassadors, for this matter? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u178	A respectable president. I think that's what we're talking about. paritaprevir Össur's son's Skarphéðinsson came in a talk far more than a question. I had long answered that question and will not repeat my answers there. I'd like to say here--no, I won't say it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u179	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u180	No. [[Foreground on: Yes.]] I'll pass. [[Up front.]] I'm not saying any more, I'm just going to say that my main concern in this case is the sovereignty of every host state to get here one piece of U.S. State Department into a fork that I now think the Icelanders had been ill-knowing and enough was replaced by the military case in the past and only with that review. No, that's all I'm going to say. I'll finish my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u181	Mr. President. I think it tells its story to the why. paritaprevir Will Bjarnason doesn't have the guts to speak his mind for free here in a speech chair. He is so distressed, and his contempt for these practices is so great that in view of manners and perhaps caution is to be observed in the presence of the soul, he does not want to pour out his minds on the highest level. Minister. I understand that. A senator is well-informed by the gods and nature, and he prefers a tip that is gentle and diplomatic in all the ports. However, I think it is important that this member of the State Department of State is, in fact, one of the carriers of the committee on the part of the management team, listen to all the discussion, attended every meeting, and he has no idea why. A minister does this. What's worse, top dog. The minister doesn't have that either.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u182	A respectable president. In this final talk, why not? paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Aphrodin son raised no question, so I hardly had to come here in Ponta.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u183	Let it rip.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-15-6.u184	No, I'm not gonna let it slide, it's such a long story that an answer won't do it. It may well be that I give my speech and comparing it at some point and perhaps to another occasion. I'm just gonna say it now that I'm here that there's no need for a reason. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Aggressor to address some of the members of the council, as he does with all this descriptions and proverbs. We have much more to discuss than humans do. I've finished my case, Mr. Honorable President.
