ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u1	The President wants to report the following elections on executives and vice presidents on the National Committee: At a meeting of the General and Education Committee on September 10th, September. was Steingrímsson Steingmursson elected the 1st vice president of the Committee. At a meeting of the management and monitoring committee on September 15 of this year. A Birgir's Ármannsson named Birgit was the 1st vice president of the Committee. At a meeting of the State Department on September 17th. Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir's daughter was president of the Committee. At a meeting of the Economic and Business Committee on September 21st. Bristur the son of Níelsson was elected the 1st vice president of the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u2	A respectable president. On November 29, 2011, a resolution of recognition of independence and the sovereignty of Palestine was adopted. It also challenged the Israelites and Palestinians to seek reconciliation with peace agreements on the grounds of national rights and the conclusions of the United Nations. I stood by this conclusion, and I think it's a good thing. I think it matters. Last Tuesday, the city council agreed to agree to a ban on Israel's hands. It may not be necessary to comment on how bad that proposal is and how bad it affects Iceland's business interests, but I would like to say that I also believe it will harm the Congress adopted in 2011, which works in every direction. According to DV's noon news and Höskuldur coverÓlafsson Hölfsson, the bank manager of Arion's bank, contacted the mayor and the chief. Prime Ministers and warns that there would be some 17 billion losses. Investment. There are no small interests at stake, and unfortunately, we also see that this will mark travel. I would like to direct that question to the chairman of the United States, the Árni Páll, the Árnason of Years, his position. Now it seems that this suggestion has been prepared for over a year. It was taken in collaboration with the Department of Pursuits of Reykjavík and the city legalist, the manager of the motion, the mayor who is in a hard race before her and says that the bank manager's letter was not directly affected. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking why. A senator: What is his view of this? Does he think that it is possible to withdraw the suggestion from the enormous interests involved? [[The president calls.]] And perhaps first of all, did he support the proposal when it was submitted to the city council? I believe it is right that the chairman of the United States will answer these questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u3	A respectable president. First, I'd like to say that I think it's very logical and reasonable of the mayor to suggest to pull this approval back because it had to be won better. It has been revealed, this has become clear from all public discussions, and this is how real managers work. Instead of shoveling deeper into a hole when problems arise, they look for ways to improve them and make suggestions better. What led to the mayor's work was taking special measures in the city's purchases on the markets from the rural areas of the occupied district. This is in full agreement with the encouragement we shared, me and the Norwegian, Swedish, and Finnish allies, the summer 2014 due to the situation in the occupied areas then. We encouraged meetings to be ways of identifying goods and how it would be appropriate to take action against companies that would shop with products whose origin is in the occupied areas. The exact same position is taken by the Ministry of State of the Ministry of Development in the review of a proposal that had to appear before the council for special meaning on the product of the occupied areas of Palestine, on permission of the president: According to the Ministry of State, all evidence suggests that goods produced in the occupied areas of Palestine are appropriately identified as being informed by the Icelandic consumers of their origin. - And it's very important that people make informed decisions. I think a senator who, for example, supports a Russian embellishment, which now costs a lot of money in business interest, only needs to know if his position is based on political raw skins in this particular matter or is based on some princely act. I say for my part that I am not ready to stand here and say that the only violent action that could not be taken against would be the violence of the Israelites against Palestinians. [[The president calls.]] I find it normal for Icelanders, individuals, the city, and the state itself, to consider how they want to do business with products buried in the shelter of human rights violations in the occupied areas. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u4	A respectable president. In the past few days, it has been observed that many Icelandic farmers are very at odds with the agreement made by agrienvironment schemes in the European Union and the chairman of chicken farms has said that the contract can be compared to a kind of natural disaster. The head of the National Association said that the deal had been made without the arrival of the organization, which must seem to be the least rather unfortunate when so much is at the same time as here. You ask yourself, " Why did this have to happen at this pace and without consulting? ' All of this is done in the name of making goods available to consumers, not to profit. But there is something wrong with people, i.e. Whether any decrease previously taken on reimbursement or the value of tax losses was fully paid to consumers. That is a witness to the ASI and the Neighbour Association. It's true that Iceland has a significant increase in toll free imports for skis, butter and lamb, as well as new food for poultry, pork and cheese. But it is not enough just to increase production and make more porridge if farmers do not receive adequate price for their milk. I'm concerned that there is no calculation or assessment to support this process, e.g. that the nonemployable increase on lamb meat will improve the interest of sheep farmers so much that their recovery can be considered acceptable. In Iceland, there is little use of food products and we insist on animal well-being, more strict than in the EU. This alone must interfere with the competitiveness of farmers unless agrienvironmental minister is going to respond in some way. We Icelandic consumers need to ask ourselves, " Do I want to buy food, since we do not know well enough about the use of drugs or production equipment and despite the warnings of doctors and public health experts there? ' I've sent the counsellor a fairly thorough inquiry on this matter, which I expect him to answer at a rate comparable to that of this agreement. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u5	V.E.G. President. This morning I was able to be present for the signing of a national contract for reading. The signing took place at Ak Aranei, where representatives from Acdéri, Haggjörður, Králdal Field, and a representative from home and school, as well as the Ministry of Education, met. At the meeting, there were also a number of basic - school teachers from Aranesp and close - ups, as well as a number of high - school students. As we have seen during the council and in a special discussion last week, the objective of the national covenant is, among other things, that at least 90% of students in Iceland can read for their benefit in 2018. Today, the figures show that 30% boys and 12% girls cannot read for their benefit at the end of elementary school. However, I would like to point out one thing, even though I am deeply concerned about these numbers, and they need to take seriously that in the primary grade of high school, it is clear that students should be taught in accordance with their abilities and needs. The schools work with a variety of teaching methods that are designed to meet these different needs and abilities. Then there are studies that measure many different aspects, and students will have only a few hours to complete, and their day - to - day activities can have a powerful impact on the results. What I was going to say here in my speech, and this morning, I made clear that the goal of the campaign is great and very respectable. But how important it is that each school is allowed to maintain its independence in its choice of teaching methods and to work out what is best for its students and has proved to be good!
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u6	V.E.G. President. Iceland's Continental Bank announced a week's notice in three banks on the West Coast, i.e. In Parliament, in Southern, in Bolungarvík. Unfortunately, it is not for the first time that the Lands Bank, its predecessor, as a new owner of the North American Sparus Fund, is a major blow to the trade of Bolvík and services. It has been reported that eleven jobs are down, and two employees have been offered jobs in the country. The government is also in big trouble because it has taken up the county office, including completing jobs as a result of the opinion of a car from the businessman who was in Bolungarvík, who has been removed and transferred to Isafjörður. Recently, a nurse in Bolungarvík heard that her work in Bolungarvík had been laid down and advertised. So you could continue to count. A doctor comes once a week. A respectable president. So it is that the savings system, including Bolungarvour's Saving Fund and those who heard of the savings family as it was sometimes called, was suspended in the current government and on its watch with its supporters, i.e. The members of the Independence Party and the Superintendent. So, a respectable president, I ask: What are the senators going to do about what is happening there? One person who was involved in this long work and thought that he was having a discussion with a government minister about rebuilding the savings system, as could be done with another bank system in Iceland, by the way of the government, and then selling it to investors who wanted to enter the savings system. But that opportunity was not new, and it happened on the watch of that government. What's going on west on the beach, and maybe more places are responsible for the present government sector, so I ask: What are government supporters going to do? [[The president calls.]] Here, you need to take action and do it right away.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u7	Mr. President. A growing number of people are on the run because of a global war situation. Others flee because they simply do not see futures in their homeland because of persistent poverty. Climate change will continue to add to this problem. The last few days and weeks have often been heard in the discussion of what to do in order to cope with this vast migration that it is right to help people close to home and thus prevent them from fleeing. By expanding development cooperation, we can help people at home and strengthen their faith that there is no need to look for a better future elsewhere. During these days at the conference hall, there is a bill about changing the law on Iceland's international development team. Senators of the smaller section have expressed concern that it should change something that is not broken, but it can have a negative impact on Iceland's development team. So I'd like to take this opportunity here when the hall's packed and ready to push. Councilmen to put things in perspective and to wonder how they feel they are going to do this together, wanting to help people at home, but planning at the same time to make overseeable changes in international development legislation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u8	A respectable president. I keep silent because I think that interest is the most important thing. The prime minister of old homes and cultural backgrounds has become very undesirable, if not exactly dangerous, affecting legal procedures. I'm interested in old houses and cultures, and I think many are, but all their dealings need to be in harmony with the democratic practices and rights of the citizens. Sadly, during the last assembly, very strange laws on the reservations that hide the highest. When it comes to determining the basis for protection, the prime minister almost totalitarian power. It is taken out of organizational laws, it was very incorrigibly, very unprofessional, and it smells like fermentation. Yesterday, I read in the news that the prospective bill on changes in cultural law has slipped an article allowing a minister to take the monuments, countries and rights of possession, all in behalf of protection of cultural prices. A gown is very open, and all the alarm bells in my mind seem to get caught reading it. It gives prime minister the right to take the monuments, lands, and rights of possession on behalf of the State in order to protect culture. It smells like bacteria. For example, could a prime minister decide to take possession of the entire town in Flatey, which is over 100 years old, if he did so? [[The president calls.]] I urge the Allied Council of Iceland, us sitting here to be on our guard, to stand firm in the arms of all the dictatorial schemes of this field. It smells very dangerous.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u9	A respectable president. Could it be that the police are left behind in this country? Could it be that it is difficult for the police to reach the government's ears whether it is a government or a World Council? Could it be that the police do not have the same taste as other groups have been getting into a job market? I think this must be a persistent question for us at the council that followed the police march and the tremendous pressures it had on the nation's lifetime, as well as on the people outside, during the metropolitan developments that the police showed in the most difficult circumstances. Of course, this calls for listening to the voices of policemen, their indications and concerns about the status of their dressers, and their drawing back there. Even so, we must think deeply about the fact that police officers do not have a right to strike. Either police must get a menial compensation, such as other groups, or they must get a strike right, a respectable president. It sounds hollow to those in charge to speak of the importance of not fighting a labour market and the need to find a more reasonable way to improve the terms of the country, then if they are not prepared in order to improve the interests of those who have no right to strike. Certainly, it is a hell to be careful if there is to be a lack of policemen for the strike rights so that they will withdraw from others in the country's interest.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u10	Mr. President. The land bank has wanted to call itself the bank of all the people of the country, but it is not for the advancement of it. The harsh actions of the bank on the Westfjords do not show that it belongs to the State, which wants to serve all the people of the country. In particular, Westerners have paid for the harsh actions of the bank against their customers, where the bank has closed the branch office one by one, and now the last time, they are locked in Thyatira, Southern, and Bolungarvík, where 11 jobs are involved. As a result, the bank's decisions in shelter have lost count of jobs, and this decision has also affected the services of Iceland's mail, which has been involved in business in these and other branches. The National Bank has shown no willingness to revise and strengthen the operation, e.g. with a job on telecommunications from the central work of the bank, customers, companies and the public are invited to continue their ministry for a long time, as if nothing were for granted. The 2011 National Bank Action List speaks of the code of ethics and of improved service. It also speaks of social responsibility, saying, by permission of the president: We're going to introduce a new and complete policy on social responsibility... Is it the social responsibility for the country's construction work that all the operations that do not achieve maximum are cut off in the same greed that caused the collapse of the bank in 2008? Where are the candidates who agreed at their party council that we should make the Lands Bank a social bank owned by the state, ◯non-protgotts, to be a member of the United States? Are they going to stick their heads under a wing and let the Independence Party control their journey and sell the Lands Bank in pieces, as shown in the budget bill? The Westerners now call for the stand and action of their members to this harsh and arrogant action of the Lands Bank against their customers, and many of them are planning to do something else. [[The president calls.]] People are invited enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u11	President. I'm going to commend the highest. Minister of Foreign Minister Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson and his colleagues for completing contracts on the reduction of agricultural products. The talks have been on some break. Icelanders took the initiative in these talks, which began formally during the reign of Aphesar, Össur of Skarphéðinsson, a minister. The aim was to increase the export of Icelandic crops to the European Union, especially on lamb and skree. And it certainly did. Fears of lamb increase from 1,850 tons per year to 3,350 tons, more than twice as many. Fear of a skrill rises from 380 tons to 4,000 tons, more than ten times as much. That's certainly a pleasure for producers, I believe. The agreement means that Iceland falls toll on over 340 new toll numbers and reduces tolls to over 20 others. The consumer organisation welcomes the agreement, and this also makes trade leaders in Iceland who say it will bring in a great price reduction that brings pleasure to all of us the food prices in this country are way too high. The deal is to improve the interests of the households, and we all have to celebrate it. But there are customs left on some farm plants, and I would like to encourage the government to celebrate its voyage so that all customs are gone. I believe that customs on agricultural products are just as burdensome for the families in the country as customs on shoes are, although it is a joy to get rid of them too.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u12	V.E.G. President. I'd like to begin by congratulating everyone with a story that has taken little advantage of the smell of Icesave case that ended with our U.S. complete victory these days. How glad we are that this was a fresh group of people in their time who fought for that conclusion! It was not easy to do so, and it was tried to prevent such a thing from happening. I see that it laughs several senators, and I'm glad that we're naturally in politics to make people happy, and this outcome has indeed made the hearts and minds of the people happy. I can only see it at the time. In the back row, members of the council are pleased with these smells. My business here today was, by the way, thanks to you. paritaprevir Bjarkey's Gunnarsdóttir arrived for the talk she gave earlier. I felt that I had reached a good social meeting in the advance society in the north because I could have said most of what she said about the toll count here. The ass was now no more than to see in this case that, as mentioned earlier, the conversation began some years ago, but it was evidently brought to a close this day. What is necessary, however, for this stage to be reached - and to use proben; it would never have been reached if we had dropped here all toll one side, we had change - is to establish some agreement on how this will be done. First of all, it must be crystal complete that these declines reach all the way to consumers. They need to be informed now about what prices are like in Iceland. We live in a state of free stress, and for consumers to make an informed decision, it is necessary to open up what prices of goods are around here on the market.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u13	A respectable president. A discussion of the problems of refugees, especially refugees from Syria, has certainly not happened to us. The one standing here had the privilege of traveling through the neighboring countries of Turkey and Lebanon and then of Sicily, Italy, last week to get to know the problem. I would especially like to draw attention to the fact that while most of us have news and pictures of refugees in Europe or are arriving in Europe, the vast majority of the refugees from Syria, the number is estimated to be 4 million, but the number is really unclear, in neighboring lands of Turkey, Lebanon, and Jordan. We met many refugees in Lebanon, who lived under a very difficult situation and met from the first hand of the wonderful work of the agencies and volunteers, such as the Red Cross, to assist the people, the refugees, in Lebanon. One of the projects we visited was a project that the Red Cross of Iceland has been supporting, along with the Norwegians of capable medical centers where a group of doctors and nurses visit places one day a week. The place we visited was 5 you. patients on the medical file. This project has been supported by government officials, of the State Department, i.e. The Red Cross in Iceland has been given the strength to survive this project and I would like to direct the Icelandic government as well as as as the public as the importance of supporting such services.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u14	V.E.G. President. I'm going like a what? paritaprevir Óttarr Proppé, who was before me in a talk chair, to enter the affairs of refugees and immigrants, normally the subjects have been very thoughtful to us during the past few weeks and loss. In a special discussion last night, the decision of the Ministers was arranged. I have to be honest with you that I think it's an example of principle and quick, but at the same time, a careful practice in the progress of all those who come to that focal point. I want to agree with them. Councilmen discussing this matter yesterday and commending all who were speaking in agreement for the organized and careful response to the challenge. The focal point that we have is that we can give our help in the most powerful way. By the order of the Ministerial Committee and by the intensive consultations with certain local and international organizations, both within the country and outside, and by the experts, this is the conclusion that it is not only funded to 2 billion that was decided to be used to assist refugees and immigrants this year and the next, but to the overall vision manifest in the implementation of a budget for financial support provided by international institutions that work among refugees and refugees and refugees to welcome them to Iceland, and to receive people in a new world of foreign origin by creating and working together with organizations such as the Red Cross Committee and the United Nations.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u15	A respectable president. This morning, there was an open meeting at night. A board of directors and patrols, which hosted Generals. The discussions there were calm, balanced, objective, and I believe that they were very effective information for Congress and the international. An open committee has often been mentioned as an example of something that could increase the so - called charade at the General Assembly, i.e. that if the committees were normally open, members of Congress would automatically turn into some kind of actor and begin to make up some scene. I believe the existing committees that have already been represented in general were characterized by careful and objective discussions. I watched this morning's meeting, and it was very helpful to me. I believe that if I were a citizen in a town, interested in the General, he would have been useful to me, not so that there might be some corruption issue, open committees are not necessarily some anti-translation device, but a means that the public can listen to experts from outside town provide information on extraordinary matters. It is useful for the public to hear these things, and finally, I suggest, a respectable president, that the meetings of the World Committees will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u16	President. I'd like to pick up the wire where it's at. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson's son, he put it down. I was so lucky to be at this meeting this morning, and I think it's very important that the Generals get to know each other better about this sort of meeting. I don't think very few people have been aware of this meeting, except perhaps members of the council and individual reporters. I'd like to challenge the public, who is watching the General Channel, to go and see this meeting that was this morning, because he's got a lot of important information going on. I'd like to interrupt a story, with President's permission, about this meeting this morning: ◯Karl Garðarsson, senator of the Agency, asked an agent, among other things, how the office had responded to this increased number. His speculation was that sending short and standard reply letters would have been considered when it was clear from the beginning that the case would not be investigated by the office. ▪ People who complain to an agent think that their rights have been violated, and it has taken time to write a letter to us, Tryggvi said. He said that most of those who complained to the office rarely did so, yet there were examples of their own type of pen friends. ▪ The training in neighboring countries has shown that a brief and standard letter leads to a mere return. We have felt that it was important for the city to feel that we have read his message and have explained our conclusions. We must find a balance between not wasting time on these matters and yet explaining the results. I would be delighted if more institutions and offices would show the efforts of the citizens to examine their rights as much respect as the U.S. Marshal does.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u17	A respectable president. Discussion of taxes tends to deal quickly with whether taxes are too high or too low. Illustrating the importance of taxation is very serious, and it must be approached with great zeal, a responsibility to take up money, and to bring it out for the good of all. Such a project, no matter how noble its purpose, requires numerous questions and careful supervision. What is the right proportion in this regard and where to start taxing, and when it is enough, should not be said, though I find a special reason to hold on to the fact that I trust people to take their money and themselves as they consider best. At the same time, it is also important to keep taxes and fees in place because we can live up to all the services and commitments we make. In this special discussion on the income markets of my society, I would like to consider the exchange between state and rural society of the tax paid by our society and how it is best divided according to our individual assignments and will come about by way of future activities. Our society is changing very fast. I believe we're moving very fast into a very modified world, which calls for us to pick up old debates without fear and find a solution to them or at least get them in an acceptable direction than a finger grip. The relationship between state and country is one of those unsolved debates that seem to simply pile on the outside. There is a surrender in this relationship of both limitations and often of great distrust. I'm not saying that because it was a very interesting experience for me personally to be the vice president of the NYU for a few years and to witness this dispute. I can say I can't feel that he's been moving in some particularly acceptable direction. In most cases, this relationship will be handled directly by both parties, either by law or by any contract they have made between them, and the main issue is often about who should pay what. An example is nursing facilities, music schools, and mental - health services. The work and service being performed often suffers for these things, taking the bite of those who should be least, public citizens who pay for the ministry. Also, local societies have taken over a task with the goal of improving their ministry and bringing it closer to the people who are serving at a time. They, for example, operate basic schools and recent services with disabled persons. With this project, funding has been provided in the form of increased extras or funds that have taken place in the rural budget. The drawing table is and has been a long-term projection that rural society will also accept services to senior citizens. In this context, it is very important to note that in the decades ahead, Icelanders over 50 years of age are expected to increase by 44% while 49 years of age and less will increase by 4%. I find that there's a completely different reality here that we have to talk about and face, and he calls for new directions and new needles. They believe that it is from those who are doing this service today, that most people have been very aware of and have been flaunting these developments for a long time. This does not change, however, that the willingness to accept the project is limited when the final transfer of large languages, services to disabled persons, to the extent that they have been successful. I hear more and more of the local government talking about the seriousness of returning the group to the state is not to accept the fact that the group is funded and responds to that situation. I'd like to get the highest opinion. In particular, the minister of finance and other members of the council in the hall is in charge of the Supreme Court. The secretary of finance provides the local community to meet the requirements of services they require, whether the highest. A minister has considered it open - minded to expand, thereby strengthening the income groups of rural society so that they can successfully support this work today and in the future. Are local income stocks self-sustained today? If so, I refer to a group of taxpayers who pay only money tax taxes and do not respond but also accept services from rural areas. Does the Minister think that rural communities are allowed to share in capital taxation, merit taxation, or a special hostilities in travel to support infrastructure, which cost large amounts of money that would otherwise be possible? Or does he feel that they simply need to cut more into business or to stop performing the ministry they have so far?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u18	Mr. President. Thank you. a voter for taking up this discussion about rural income. This is as if we all know a number of discussions that come into play on how the public interest in the tax returns to people and from business incidents as well as the way the exchange of income should be done between the state and the local community. Of course, all of us know that over the past two decades, there have been a number of major steps in moving jobs from one country to another, and thus income stocks have been used for the rural population. Like what? The saying here has been quite a few examples that the rural communities feel that income stocks have been rather dwindling when the service had reached the point where the local community would like to offer. It is also a matter that is likely to make it harder for societies to meet the demands of increased, improved service, and thus, at some point, the situation is different. We can then say here that it is better for people to be able to attend services in their own environment, but that factor may not have always been included. We know that the rural communities play a very important role in serving to the citizens of the country and to the three commercial institutions, tenants, property tax, and contributions from the balance fund. They are jointly aimed at ensuring that their communities can perform this role. Other incomes are likely to fall into place in accordance with other rural activities, to form income from public resources and institutions, as well as from land rents and permit fees, as the law says. In recent years, additional revenues have also been made through changes that are rooted in the council. For example, I could name incomes that have fallen out of the payment of a special pension or tax increases during the last term that added to the equation, where the balance fund receives 2.12% of the total income of the state. A special bank tax has also paid off to the countryside. These have been unconventional, temporary income stocks for the state that have also contributed to the countryside. I keep this in the interest of other things that I could mention in this relationship but that I will not do. Today, the state's income income of an individual's income tax is less than that of the rural population in the local labour system despite the response to 14.44%, whereas the central level of income taxation is 25.3% today. This is sanctified by the fact that the state always guarantees its rural population, while financing the personal discount. Thus, in 2014, 7% of the total response from the local community was funded by personal discount from the state, or less than 11 billion. There is at least one way to view this financial exchange through the local payment system that the State finances, as it were, the complete personal discount. We know the requirement to raise the tax limit. Keep in mind, then, that in the market, this always means a requirement for the state and no requirement for the rural society, as it is seldom mentioned that the rural communities have something to yield to their efforts to ease people's efforts. I specifically mention this here because it must not be forgotten in this financial exchange how much solidly stable the farm strain is to the rural population. I mentioned earlier that 2.12 percent of the government's taxpayers go to the SEC and raise the amount of income to the balance fund. This will be about 13.3 billion next year. Hv. The advisor mentioned some tax institutions, capital tax, cost taxes, and a bedmark tax, and you might think of other tax companies, but I would like to agree that by taking the total tax taxes and taking them and defending them into the balance fund, we'll do it in an indirect way. Other than that, I just want to finish saying that this is a very important discussion. Surely, all of us want to communicate well with the local government level. I am fully aware that the level of government calls for a more objective discussion on the funding of individual projects taken by the rural community, which vary in size from one to the next to the next to the next. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Part of this discussion, I think it should be done between the other members of the community how they might be more reasonable in sharing what is to be divided into the balance fund. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u19	Mr. President. In addition to legal income companies, I believe it is time to find ways to divide the nation's resources between the country's administration level and the state funds. The United States proposed during the last assembly as part of an improved rural policy that rural communities get part of the fishing fee. Change in law, along with technological advances, has led to a large number of marine eco-efficiencys, with a reduced number of jobs and disturbances in the number of habitats in many parts of the country. Society as a whole profits from economic fishing, but rural society pays for the economy by reducing the number of workers and by reducing the population. Thus, the metallurgy system by exorbitant rights brings to the community the cost of rural society. The economy leads to long - term benefits for the nation as a whole, but the majority of the benefits have slipped into the development and the later years to some extent to the State in the form of fishing costs. The cost of tourists who come to our home to enjoy nature affects many rural areas that do not likewise earn the tourists'income. Some of these are rural society, which is popular for the Northlight inspection; dozens of buses flock to the same rural society; passengers make use of public toilets before returning to their homes; and they leave behind the tracks their rural areas are costing themselves. Instead of continuing to make suggestions that new fees with complex collection routes would be more reasonable and in the spirit of the present government's policy on a simple tax system that would allow tourism to enter the general stages of the valuable tax system and the rural communities to enjoy a share of the income. Similarly, rural society should enjoy the resources that the energy companies can produce in the future. A law bill that determines the general treatment of interest exchange by all our natural resources has become urgent.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u20	President. Thank you for taking up this important discussion, which is more important and more important than we can have it in half an hour. Hv. A senator focused his sights primarily on the changed position of travel services and, therefore, the nature protection and structure of popular tourist facilities so that I intend to stay in my home here to keep to that part of the case even though there is truly financial communication between the state and the rural community in a much longer discussion. We'll see to it that they're filming a budget bill at the highest level. Ministers to the State's debt status are improving this year and into the future, which is the opposite with the rural communities. They have an ongoing and stable problem with the future, and there is something we must also consider in the light of the changed and increased projects that the rural communities have taken over. These include services to the disabled. I especially want to stop because these popular tourist attractions are not necessarily divided by a population of people. We are designed to make up a large, vast area of natural pleasure. I speak of Strupee shops, which in everyday speech are often called the Myy Sea Forces, and the Swamp of Thomson, which are few rural communities but receive an enormous number of visitors. These rural communities also have the problem with more than one part of those working in the summer in the tourism industry paying attention elsewhere. It is also part that we need to consider in this context everything, i.e. The possibility of switching from country to farm to large part of the year. Now it's so amazing that there are seven seconds left and I'm just getting started, but I hope this discussion will lead to good.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u21	V.E.G. President. First, I want to thank the advocate of this interesting discussion. As all of us are aware, rural income institutions are responders, property taxes, and contributions from an equation fund, which has increased dramatically in the last few years, as well as in the collection of service incomes. The situation varies, but many have been very successful in overcoming debt, but their composition varies from one to the next. An increasing stream of tourists will also reveal that communities vary in size and size. Intensification and development need to be performed, and in order to achieve this, it is necessary for income to enter the regions. Therefore, it is not surprising that income that comes into the region goes back in part. For example, if you are referring to a host's balance, you may argue that as much as an object goes to the state and the area for building it up. There is the possibility that income will come in where the services are used. It can be noted, then, that when a host or company is sold out of the community, tax from the market does not go to the local community. Is it possible to secure a share in that? In view of how much this affects the work in the area, can we look at opportunities to attend? In many areas, it is apparent that measures will be taken, which are available to the local community. The way in which this is concerned may be the strength of existing rural areas, while others need to show themselves in other ways, and may be considered whether there is any possibility of dividing land areas up in some way that larger areas are below and thought as a whole. Some rural societies have established the building of zones where tourists can use and pay for their services. It is also available by another person in police releases that night stations or tents are forbidden, except for areas, so that travel can be accessed to some extent and direct revenues to the area. Looks like we've got a lot of options, and it's got to be a lot of business to do together.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u22	A respectable president. This is a discussion that I have to admit that it would be better for me to listen more than to talk about. I think it's very interesting, and it's especially an answer. A minister of finance I come to listen to over and over again until I feel that I understand every other word perfectly. I think it's important that our communities are as independent as possible, and I believe that the key is that they can finance themselves successfully, which we know is not the case today. I find it very interesting, therefore, to think that they will be involved in a company's income tax or a merit tax or a corpse, but only with them in advance that it will really help them. I call for locals themselves to be heard in this discussion so that we can better understand what would be right for them. As we have seen, there is not necessarily a link between the fact that much business is involved in a certain rural society and a lot of people. It is an factor that can easily distort the conclusion. If there is much industry in one rural society where there are not many people or vice versa, the results would likely be very different. I think it's important that we discuss these ideas. I wondered, a respectable president, if there is a basis for a special project that would be clear, and in my opinion it should be the goal of trusting the independence of the community. I have heard this discussion before, and people have been concerned that such ideas would only warm up in and around the city, since most of the people live in the capital area. It's very important that we take into account the verbal talk and the extra that whatever we do, it's done in harmony with all our rural communities.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u23	A respectable president. I've worked in both administrative districts, i.e. Both in rural and present at the General Assembly, and often it has helped me to see how the discussions about rural society and the state funds want to develop into being two different screws, such as a linked company or something. To me, both state funds and rural communities are determined to be double heads, two faces to the same things we would call public business, public income and services, and duties followed by two democratic ideal government levels. I have always found that the discussion is a difficult one in its direction, as if the one party is bringing something to the other or the other person is tramping on the other side. We live in these years, in Icelandic society, not only in the survival of both rural society and government funds, which we see tend to increase and decrease, sometimes in trade, but also in Icelandic commercial, commercial, economic. We can see by the tremendous rise of the tourism service a change in government income and individual rural society. I feel that such changes are important to us. We also see in proposals by means of the budget changes in the tax system, tax revenues, and it is important that both parties, communities, and government funds sit together and remain in an endless process of reevaluating how these incomes will be divided. I'm the highest. Minister to participate in such work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u24	V.E.G. President. It's like an old-fashioned discussion, and I wondered why she's coming up especially now. Now, in contrast to government funds, society has been very stable in income companies, and it has been over the past few years, losing to trust them even more, i.e. With an increase in the response and an increase in the amount of money in equal funds, it is a little special that this discussion should flare up now. Probably, the explanation is that the estimated high rates in pay will be difficult for the communities. Somehow you have suspected that this discussion has something to do with Reykjavíkurburg now, but vice versa to most of the local rural areas, the local city's situation is to get worse despite a tremendous increase in income and income, as it were. Then this discussion about growing income stocks will flare up. At the same time that the state's demand for more money to be spent on the others and on these lawsuits when it is almost properly balanced with the government, it may not be possible to say that there is a great chance of moving income from the state to the countryside for some time now. I think people must simply go over their business in the countryside, especially in Reykjavíkurburg, and reevaluate the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u25	President. Of course, the funds needed to care for the work entrusted to them by law must be guaranteed by rural communities. It's our job to make a law, and it's our job to tell how much goes. It's normal to be discussed here. Special attention should be given to the transfer of large segregation groups from government custody to rural society. As all of us know, rural society is very different and varies in strength. Therefore, special caution is needed in the case of a project. While rural communities may often be better qualified to provide close - up services that people need, their strength to perform such services differs. Therefore, special attention is needed in these areas so that all the people of the country can be assured of the best service, and they need to be used as an equation. It may not be wise to call large numbers of farm stocks, but this does not mean that they should be moved or changed. Municipals are not allowed to share in corporate taxation or income money to their owners. The community of rural society is particularly concerned with sharing in public incomes of resource use, such as electricity production, tourism, fish farming, or fish fishing. Especially is this the case when rural society's projects are mutagenic, as has been the case with the explosion that has occurred in travel services. Official revenues of tourism are mainly due to a value tax that is not shared by the rural community. The object of our rural society for tourism is different. The solutions are not the same in the city of Reykjavík, the Eastern Court of Rights, or Strulls, but they are all as urgent as they need money to deal with them. So it is urgent to take action.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u26	Mr. President. A great number of projects have been developed since a country's community over the years, and it has often been discussed that the government's financial resources have not been followed to their projects. Of course, it's always controversial, but I still think there's a lot to it. It has been true that when these projects, such as those of the disabled and long ago, have moved to the countryside, the service has increased. When assigned to the community, the service usually increases, requiring more expenses. I think it's perfectly normal for us to make money between countries and rurals. Actually, this is a living document that needs a continuous review. This has mentioned a growing number of tourists, who certainly affect their rural communities, but they do not make as much money as the government does. I think it's only natural for us to consider whether rural society should get some share in the massive revenues of the tourist flow to the country. I also feel that it is considered to consider that the rural community is receiving some part of the fishing fees or capital taxes, which are specified, limited tasks to support a wide range of sectoral development and infrastructure into tourism services. I think it is very important that we look for ways to strengthen the branch fund in order to care for these projects and that the rural communities can offer comparable services wherever they are in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u27	A respectable president. Thank you for taking this discussion. Of course, discussions about the financial situation of rural society are of utmost importance and how they can care for their responsibilities. The debate has primarily turned into rural income stocks and to see if they are to be added to certain income stocks. I have to tell you my point, I think we have to divide our communities into two categories, including small and medium-sized rural areas and large rural areas. The situation is, of course, that many small and medium - sized societies find it extremely difficult to take on the tasks that large rural groups often call themselves. In recent years, many smaller rural areas have cut down tremendously and are simply at the point where they do not have a chance for further economic measures. The cost of legal projects, such as operating school, has become virtually so in many of these rural communities as the largest part of their expenses. Then there are the larger rural areas, including is here in the capital area. Like what? paritaprevir Of course, armoured Níelsson's son came into them as a whole in the way of business, while the communities which have a business problem in the capital area, e.g. Reykjavíkurburg, of course, must handle their problems at home. I am convinced that Reykjavíkurburg can do much better for economic management than has been done in recent years and can look to the small rural society that has been allowed to take on massive economic measures throughout the country in recent years. However, I am positive that we take the discussion about whether companies are going to get more share in income stocks and what income stocks. I'm pointing out that we don't mix it, we'll have to split it up in some way, these big, small communities. I think it's especially small and medium-sized rural areas that need this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u28	A respectable president and other senators. Thank you so much for what I've heard. I just want to deal with some of the things that came out. I'd like to say something with a what. paritaprevir Óttar of Proppér when he spoke of a common pocket, as it is now that it all comes from this one large vase that is somewhere. Of course, this will blow our mind that we should be returning the funds of 15 billion dollars. A profit when many rural communities face persistent problems. I'll mention Kopavog, Hafnarfjörður and Reykjavík, because there are large rural areas where the future will be realized, e.g. Participating to more parts is the opposite of all categories, so I don't think you can just blame it for the root of the problem in sorting itself. Money is rising, as the minister of finance pointed out, and we all shall benefit from it, I would think. I wanted to come into it why this discussion is coming up now, if it just exists, because Reykjavíkurburg has some special business problem. It's not. This discussion comes up, and I came to my speech earlier, because of the demographic changes that require us to watch how we divide out the joint revenues we have from moaning. That's mostly what I'm looking at and also because of changes in job habits. As noted earlier, tourism is called expensive projects in rural areas that often have no control over such projects. Then I want to challenge the highest. The secretary of finance and the Minister of the Interior to use it in a far more complicated and more powerful way of leading this discussion along with rural society, since I don't think that there was anything lacking in the will to deal with it. Let us not just look at these things from political views, based on some particular more things or smaller parts in rural governments today, this is a huge future that we have to face. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u29	Mr. President. I'm thinking that there's nothing about how money is divided between the state and the country. I don't think we have the local tax system we have today. I've made a considerable effort to analyze it and to come into it only here and refer to material through the budget bill for further analysis of how it is divided. My conclusion here is that the answer is a very stable income stock for the rurals. The disadvantage to that Kingdom arrangement is that the State will always stand up to make changes in order to ease the money, but the State will pay very little taxes from those mentioned among the hands. I don't think it's possible, so I think that there are even more benefits than local payment systems, and as a result, it would be even more benefit to the State to make changes there, but it would always depend on what would happen instead. I'm very open to the discussion on this subject, but I think it's important to get two people in here. It is true that the state's recovery is improving, but the economy corrected may not have improved much. There's a economy in progress, and it's only natural for us to improve the yield and grow something, but I think that when we analyze it more carefully, speed swings aren't a big growth in the recovery itself. That's what I wish men had in mind. Then there is the other. The increase in government income is divided by local societies through the equation fund, and much more is involved. In addition, major initiatives have been proposed in recent years to increase the income sector. [[The president calls.]] But this is and will remain a worthwhile subject. I can't say that I feel it in my job that there's a strong voice with a certain requirement from my rural society at the moment, but it's a matter that always needs attention. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Thank you for the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u30	President wants to announce that last September 17th meeting was a 10th language, a National Park in the Middle East, referred to the General and Education Committee. The matter was to be addressed to the environment and transport committee and corrected.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u31	A respectable president. Now we will continue to discuss this matter, which we have done considerably and may not result in failure because efficiency and efficiency are the concepts that have been used as evidence of putting down and importing a developing research agency into the Ministry. As I have said before, efficiency may not be the strongest aspect of scheme. There, the decision - making process is much distance away from the problem to be solved. In some cases, the projects are surging between institutions and recruitments and may end up at a minister's table when the problem is under control, i.e. as in this type of activity, is gone or has even multiplied. In the process of developing cooperation, matters need to be resolved quickly. Not to be overlooked is the fact that there are telephone meetings with district offices, almost daily bread from a developing research agency where people cover and solve the situation. As we have noted earlier, reports from the Development Organization can be presented that show how projects are carried out and how tax money is used, but the same is not relevant for the Ministry, at least not as this was traced yesterday, including the United Nations School or the Peace Guard. As a result of putting down a development cohesion agency, we are calling for less efficiency, less effectiveness in my evaluation and more transparency. When we discuss these matters, I do not realize that there is no question about the results of how things have gone elsewhere. There is a Dutch assessment of comparable changes in which several warnings are given, e.g. that political interests, business ties, and development teamwork want to fit into one pot that does not separate from normal development. It suggested that the organization be restored, but it was not followed. It says of the Ministry of State that its main mission is to take interest in Iceland's behalf against foreign countries. In that case, it may be said that the Ministry's staff is insured in the words of securing Iceland's interests in foreign lands. If we think of this group we're here to discuss, let's say that it's just that it's unwise to import evolutionary cooperation into the Ministry. As I've said before, evolution is not about Iceland's interests, it's about the world's poorest people's interests. When we're talking about successful, successful, successful development cooperation, it's being performed on their terms, on the grounds of the recipient, the poor, not on the basis of our Icelanders. Therefore, it is so important to understand this, that the Ministry has policy but the Agency receives the European Commission. Because we're talking about developing cooperation, we have to remember that Iceland has not been able to succeed, it's a huge boat of the northern countries for contributions to development cooperation. Of our national product, this is about 0.21%, something like that, but Norway and Sweden have more than 1%. We are, in effect, a subversive of the largest northern Europe in these matters. In the case of two - side development aid, there are low expenses in relation to other countries. Our contribution involves a tenth part of Dana's contribution and when we look at only a certain country, e.g. Uganda, although Uganda is one of three cooperation countries of Iceland, the contribution of the Development Agency was 0.14% of the two - sided aid of 2013. Of course, it is almost there that almost all developing hosts operate in many more countries. I'd kind of like to agree at the end. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir said in advance about the activities of the council earlier, that at the same time when major senators need to put the matter in perspective, they wonder how they are going to want to help people in their homes and go at the same time for such an unplanned change in the State Department of State, which should be in the field and not in the Ministry. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u32	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the talk and the fine suggestions there were. I wanted to adopt a thread of political corruption, business interests, and politics that could become very close when things are not being put into an independent agency under the professional administration of government officials but rather into a political Ministry under the administration of the government. Does the senator think that it is a reason for us Icelanders to worry about political corruption and that the financial resources of this category are sometimes spent in cooperation with companies or private citizens in other countries and are concerned that there are no lengths between politics and financial contributions in this subject? Does the senator think that we need to guard against political corruption and any danger of it in this vital issue?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u33	Mr. President. In itself, you do not assume that people intend to be corrupt. If we look to the warnings I understand that had appeared on the Foreign Affairs Committee when the matter was considered, then at least a careful approach to the earth would be warranted. What I've said about this case is that the transparency doesn't grow, that's for sure. Effective measures have been made here. The Ministry has not flaunted such factors in other assignments, so it at least increases suspicion so that we do not take a deeper point than that. As men become more distant, they too may be more likely to choose different assignments than those that they now and for the past few years have done these jobs, including the ones that have been doing. as shown here in some particular private companies. Of course, you have heard that this is one of the concerns of those who work for them. Here it has been said a number of times that there is no other measure to be done than for someone to live together that could be quite the same, i.e. that further projects would be carried out in the Developmental Cooperative Ministry rather than withdraw them into the Ministry and have even more demands on monitoring and transparency than there is here. As I say, I don't intend to destabilize people, but the transparency becomes even greater than the word, and the arm length clearly won't be there, as Government Accounting points out.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u34	A respectable president. There's nothing to recommend that this be attacked, says why. A senator, and I think you're right. In fact, it seems to me that in some way this matter is somehow being made up of one of the supporters of this matter, the commanding officer, the highest. Minister of Foreign Minister Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, whereas 62 members of Congress or even strongly opposed or at least not supporting the matter in any way. I honestly remember that in the 12 years I've been here, a minister has been just as lonely in language as he is here and has acted against as much and as general protests as he has lived here. I wonder what. A senator could explain why the minister would present this second council in a row after the case successfully ended up on a committee during the first assembly. Why is this so much emphasis, in fact, a formality that many days of the meeting program are not taken into the more important plans or ideals of the minister in this regard? Would it not be far more beneficial for the council to review our shameful small contributions for development and how to increase them than spend all this time in the process of packing up a developing research agency into some drawer of the Ministry itself?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u35	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. Right away. A senator says that the highest. A minister is alone in this case, you immediately think that the members of the greater part have been completely away from this discussion. They've not been involved, so I don't know how they feel about it, whether they're generally at peace with each other. I don't know if the Minister is that smooth, but many ministers have been in it or have been pressured to do this. For many years it has failed. Ministers have survived. I've told you before that I don't know why this kind of pressure seems to be inside the Ministry. I don't think the Minister may have invented this in himself. I would have liked to discuss more contents than frames, and I think it would have been more effective. I've wanted to discuss the contributions and what we're doing, how we're doing, etc. Instead of spending here, like a whale. A member of the council named exactly, many days of extramarital and formality, which, as the minister has said, is in itself not a reason to change. At the very least, the reasons for the irresistibly weak are so that it would have been much more beneficial for success and, of course, only more meaningful to deal with in the light of the improvement in the interests of our own society that we would rather increase our donations for development cooperation than in the development of the Agency. Of course, you try to protect it because the thought is that developing teamwork is better placed there.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u36	A respectable president. I may have something different. The senator and the senator who responded earlier to it rather than to the thought that this is more than a morphological change. I think there will be some variation in the function by going this way. The approach humans are leaving is tremendously clear, there is a high level of expertise in the Agency that has gathered a great level of expertise and has been given tremendous good judgments from foreign professionals from abroad, such as. DAC for their operations. It is a specialized profession, an extremely delicate and specialized profession. Therefore, I view it as a matter of nature, not morphological change, when it is decided to take it from that channel and to resort to other service projects in the Ministry. When you look at this from the point of view, I think it's quite serious, and that's why we need to be cool. A senator mentions discussing in a material way what we would like to do in developing cooperation before humans make such a change. That discussion has not been conducted. That's why I'd like to ask. Senator, if we're trying to think a bit of a Conspiracy, how we want to win this case. We have good examples, and yesterday we received fine examples of how we can work out conflicts. This is obviously a problem. This is a sensitive case group that we are deeply concerned about, and the minister has no special support for the matter in his own ranks or in the order of the administrations, anyway, it's not visible here. Then I wonder what. A senator had some thoughts about what might be involved in this matter in order to try to reach a wise conclusion, a conclusion that does not upset the developing community for a longer time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u37	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. I agree that there's going to be a change of nature, that's not to be misunderstood; certainly it's a change of nature if this works out, so to be said, I agree with that. But I still feel like we're talking a little bit over the outside, but I wanted to talk about the contents. That's what I meant earlier. That is exactly what I agree with, and it has been mentioned in my earlier talk and also when we were last to discuss that fact. Some employees are expected to be brought into the Ministry, others not. There is nothing in this regard. I'm also worried that there's a lot of tension between the development of the employment agency and the Ministry of State on this subject. This could cause us to lose good people who would otherwise be willing to continue working. I'm worried that there'll be a few things to start over with when the ministry gets settled, even if I'm not going to say that it's going to start at zero point, but there's going to be a great deal of powder in setting up the operation, how to work this thing, when it gets back to the Ministry. It's also sort of completely incomprehensible, as we have discussed here why it is not possible to await the outcome of FAC. The minister has not provided an acceptable answer. It's the first thing. This is the case, as was the last time the law was changed, in 2008, likely a political consultation. A cross-cutting political approach requires that people come to some conclusion, not to a preconceived conclusion, as it seems here, because there is not much to support this change.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u38	A respectable president. Yeah, I agree with what. Senator. I hope to the highest. A minister is willing to listen and go along with us because we have succeeded here to most extent in keeping this group out of conflict. When this total law came into existence, we agreed on the 2008 case, but there were, of course, some present - day members, that's always the case. But, you know, they were pretty cool about this, and I think we have to be careful about keeping our litigation. I hope the Minister is willing to summon us and wonder if this can be achieved in more solidarity. One way would be to wait until next year's Eastern peer assessment, just take it easy, put it aside until then, and then get a non-political group to study these conclusions with professional experts, and see if there is any basis for this or some other reason. The big question must be what happened. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon asked here: "What are we going to do with this, and what's wrong? The answer to that question has never been raised, and before we begin the process of changing the arrangement, we need to know the answer to the question, What is it? It would be a welcome occasion for us to go through it in such a job if the highest. A minister would be willing to accept the extended reconciliation and go on such a expedition with us, wait for the review, and then blow it together and make the improvements that need to be settled.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u39	Mr. President. Compared to the highest. A minister makes this issue so early, as he now does, I don't have much faith in the possibility of an act of reconciliation. Of course, I sincerely hope that he will listen and realize that he does not have full support for the matter, even within his own ranks. What is important in this regard? And as we have been told here, and we have often wondered, " What is it that has to be fixed? Why does this need to be changed? ' If something has to be fixed, can't it be done as I said before? Is there a way to transfer the Agency into the Ministry? I want to think of this primarily, since developing cooperation is a long-term project, development teamwork needs to be successful. She needs a lot of preparation and preparation, and then she needs a meal, and that food has been positive. Therefore, the underlying issues in this report are laid down as a basis for bringing the operation into the Ministry way too weak. I think there should have been more of a question as to whether there's any practical wisdom in this for the people in our cooperation countries. Does this have to do with some practicality for the people who are accepting this assistance in the great world of our cooperation countries? I think it's a big question that has not been answered in this discussion by those who are making the point.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u40	Mr. President. We have been discussing this matter for some time, and as is often the case when we take the time to discuss matters, there is a sharper limit of the lines. Unfortunately, the government groups have not been particularly diligent in these discussions, in fact, just a foreign minister himself, and so forth. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, who said so memorablely that other institutions would have no need to guess unless there was a specific argument. Once we've been through this for a while, I feel like three things are out of shape. First, the main religious structure and the Icelandic Board of Directors. Do we want to have a big Ministry that handles all kinds of professional matters or that we want to have less ministry and institutions? In which direction are we moving the board and the institutions, because as the government has held on to the issues where there is no policy in this. It's suggested that an agency be admitted to the Ministry while we were finishing last winter's proposal. Secretary of Education to take a job from the Ministry and put it in institutions. So here is the sheer chaos and futility of a journey, which in itself is not surprising, for many times you have come to realize that there is a lack of complete vision and some kind of outdoor vision and job management at the time of this government, but for this the minister has to answer. He must answer for this, and the government's foreman must also answer for the fact that it must be an unsatisfactory and unmanageable human resources and money to be involved with organizations of some sort of random, unscrupulous decision and lack of policy. This is an important matter, this is a key point, this is a point that should rest on well-founded policy and, of course, the best policy of the campaigns and elections, government transactions, where we would be pretty much in agreement on how we wanted to see the European Commission and its institutions develop. There is nothing in terms of or political policy that requires one model to be there rather than above. Therefore, this subject is one that we should agree on rather than be picking up with organizations. Second, there is a very important factor that has been malcontaminated by the highest degree. Minister, and I miss actually that he does not participate in the discussion, which is simply the requirement that the proposal be reasoned. There would be no great effort to make the minimum requirement for such a suggestion that is supported by material, professional, and strong reasoning. It's not. Worse yet, here is a argument that appears to be a virtual argument, which appears to be a form of dress to prepare a proposal and worse, that the argument is characterized by the cover of the Minister itself against his own organization. There is no institution to have to sit under such things at the hands of his minister. It is good and natural to have an institution with a strong conversation with his minister in the Agency's field of activity but the Minister allows himself to submit to a Senate document, and not once, not only when he recommends the matter in the 144th legislation of last year but again, directly, that a development agency is not at odds with Iceland's foreign policy, and that the development community is not in harmony with any other international policy of Iceland's foreign policy, and that the development community is speaking of a different voice about international development cooperation than the Ministry and Minister does. This was a significant comment during the last council, and I thought to be honest with the minister that it would not be the point of planning his case for the second time in the dark. I don't think it's acceptable. I think it's completely unsurpassed that a minister does. The proposal says that there will be a better perspective on the seminary, and it will better ensure that Iceland's legal policy is carried out. Therefore, it can be concluded that now that because of an independent institution of development, Iceland's policy in the litigation category is not being carried out. It cannot be said that a minister would present such a suggestion with such reasoning without standing up for his case against the Council. I think it's the administrative part for an opinion, that I don't say shame, if it's so that a majority of the Specialist Party and Independence Party come back to the "Yes" levels when it comes to voting on this matter and taking it in a light bed, there's an artificial provincial minister available in print. Third, I'd like to say, and then maybe we've got more to do with today's affairs: this is a new law on Iceland's international development team, which is law No. 121/2008. During this period of conflict in Icelandic politics, it was the bill that reached a parapolitic solidarity, worked hard to reach such a conclusion. Why was that? Because it is important for a nation's sense of identity that this group is beneath a parapolitic flag, that they seek to set matters straight and to embrace the common tone that we live on in this country. Developmental cooperation applies, i.e. the 2008 law on international development cooperation in Iceland. It's interesting. It is desirable to achieve a non - political solidarity on such a matter. Then again, it takes time to reflect on that situation. We were here a few senators meeting for a bill to make new foreigners because we were already in a state of shock. paritaprevir Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, who is now president of the State Department of State, was considered it important for a group of foreigners, for the important matter which calls for more and more attention as the years go by, to assemble representatives and members of all classes, and not all members of Congress, in accordance with the grants of Congress, not for more of the members of the Council, no, but for a voice of every body of Congress that owns members of the International Assembly of Iceland, six agents, as many Pirates and candidates, as many of the Bjarnsar and futureists, one of every group. Why? Because of it. A senator and one of the highest. A minister felt that it was important for the jury to bring these voices together and try to find harmony. It was. We are convinced that this was a success on the committee, that it was important. We have come quite close to having an artificial bill ready to submit to the U.S. Council, at the highest level. Minister of Ólöf Nordal will probably do later in the fall. When I'm at the highest. Minister Ólöf Nordal will take the cylinder from the wind. paritaprevir Birna Kristjánsdóttir wants us to continue doing this work. The commission is clear, the project set up, and we continue our work. Why? Because they agreed that this was such a precious and important project that it would result in the outcome of a parapolitan flag. Then it happens, here comes the highest. Foreign Minister with a case that is an article of the same materialistic nature, i.e. the language of the European Development Agency, however, is carried out in the traditional majority/minor approach or the presenting of a less-inhabited, unconcerned and unsatisfied bill, confident that he will receive more of it in due time. He does this rather than bring the matter up in a successful, handbillic direction that he should make. Now I have a certain sympathy for the highest. Minister who made this case a year ago. It was completed and replaced by committees a year ago and with majority of aluminium and minor aluminium. There was a disagreement on the matter. I have compassion for a minister who thinks that now he should just go further and try to put it through the council again. But I pray to the highest. The minister and chairman of the State Department of State to sit down on this matter with us representatives of the government opposition, all of whom have declared that we want to lead this to success in the spirit that other similar tasks have been carried out. All right, let's wait for the DAC. What is the urgency? What is the point of keeping the question about what needs to be fixed and what's wrong, letting it go? A respectable president, what's the hurry? Why can't we agree to complete a review of peer reviews from the DiaC, and it will be introduced to the Allegorical Committee of State and the Committee to approach possible changes in agreement with the Foreign Minister and State Department, in line with the findings of FAC? What would you say would be against that? I'd like to hope we can reach this country by using this approach. It is not wise to present yourself in this manner, with closed eyes. We have an excellent guide from the General's research report after the collapse of the bank, where it was said that it was important to listen to professional reasoning when making major decisions and that we should avoid Ministering for big decisions, that we should do so, that we should let the World Council take the discussion and perhaps bring the material conclusion of the matter to a better degree. I'd like to hope that that's the case, and now that we're starting to support the end of the discussion, I'd be glad to hear it. A minister would take one final turn on the discussion and be accompanied by us, who have discussed the matter in the past, us in the government opposition, who have just made peace with the goal that developing cooperation in Iceland will be of good quality.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u41	President. What caught my attention was doubtful. A senator on the policy of the Board of Directors in which she basically said that the government had no direction, and it seems to me that it is quite right. She used an example of moving an organization, which everyone commended and hasn't had any criticism, so I know, under the Council's wing and its officials without, as she also said, that there were any arguments for it, but in the same way - or in the wrong way - there would have been a discussion when the Ministry of Education wanted to move people out of the Ministry and in a special setting. It's natural in different directions, and I don't think it should be. Of course, there may be differences in structure, but it beats me and there's only a suitable policy here with the minister. State Department officials have, as we all know for a long time, wanted this into the Ministry and Minister to indulge them, and then the Minister of Education may consider it better to show that his men, so to speak, would run some institution in town and have more freedom than within the Ministry. I'd like to know if the Senator wondered about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u42	President. I'm very thoughtful about these factors. It may be a bit systematic to be occupied with this part. But now, of course, we're not overcrowded by the financial or human resources of the Icelandic government, and that should be independent and specific goals, I don't talk about when people are starting to put up special groups, not spending time and money in nonsense. It's just that, you know, if you don't move and move, you know, just because I want to do it, or because somebody at some department pressures that it's done, I don't talk about when there's no obvious sign that something's wrong, like a what's wrong. A senator rightly pointed out, and many have spoken about this in the discussion. I think there's a number of parishes in the Icelandic Board of Directors and the Management Board's establishment. I think organizations can be united and can be used to do much good in doing this better. But this should not be random, and it should not be unprofessional. It must not be that people live with it, e.g. Fisher Service personnel, to see only suddenly in the news that the Agency is being exported to land, or that some institution will be laid down, or taken into the Ministry with a single pen dash. It's not working. It is not acceptable for the good people out there who are working in our agency, at Generalis, that they have the insecurity that there is no clear policy on how these projects will develop into the future, but it seems to depend on political concerns and random decisions. So I agree with that. A senator I don't feel like it's working out, and I thought this kind of work would be history.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u43	President. Hv. A senator adds to the favorite lists and sports decisions of the Fish Room Ministers and I'm afraid that if we stay here a little longer, there'd be more and that's exactly what I'm afraid of. I feel like some, many ministers in the present government did not realize that being a minister is no joke. It is a very serious responsibility and in such an office to comply with the rules and laws, not with what they think or want to do at the moment. I think it matters. I'd like to ask the senator if she can agree with what has been presented in the matter. paritaprevir Jónasson's son surmise, that perhaps it would be a huge project for us now to review the administration or how the development issues of a developing agency or anything, because of the fact that in the bill to become some evolution committee, it reminds me that its name, I don't quite remember, where people should sit from fellows from the university and then five generals. Hv. A senator made it clear that a transliterian institution or an Šre·re·re·geʹre·geʹre·seʹcontte is not expected if I may say so and apologize, a respectable president, i.e. whether she can agree with what has been presented in the matter. paritaprevir Ögmundur of Jónasson's son. Perhaps it would be enough for us to look at how we are going to have the management of the development organization unchanged in other respects?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u44	President. Because we were talking about general tendencies changing the Council of Control and the development of institutions and whales. A senator said that if we were to extend this discussion, we might recall even more, so we're talking about one thing after another and we're soon to remember a bill at the highest level. The prime minister in spring as a result, and in fact another bill is said to be in the water today, both of which are about to draw power, that ministers draw power by special prime signs and legal adjustments. I think that's what happens in one case after another and at the highest hand. The minister of foreign affairs to form when he made a special council agreement last year to draw back the application to the European Union, in fact, being overlooked by the basic fact in the Icelandic Government order that the Ministers serve as representatives of the General Assembly. They are not permitted to do anything except what they have been authorized to do from the Council. The pyramids turn toward the general council. The Ministers can't do anything else or think of anything more than what the Company's staff does or allows them to do. That's why I think it's an important voice on our side, from that we could really help when the Minister offers suggestions like the one here, and like the one involved in developing cooperation committees, and I agree with that. A senator says that, of course, the administration of the Agency can be considered primarily if it is the task. It's okay to do that. But this is still another basic tendency we see at the highest level. Government, i.e. to avoid spreading power and attracting power.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u45	Mr. President. Thank you. A member of the council for this lame speech. As always, it deep down into this kind of thing. We can ask ourselves, " Why is this matter in this strange situation? ' It's kind of symbolic, I think, for foreign policy like she's fired today. This case is clearly placed on the tip of the highest. Secretary of state. This is the core of foreign policy, as it is run by Iceland's government today and when I say it's symbolic, I'm thinking of other matters. They had firm hopes at the highest. Secretary of state. He used to speak in such a way that although there was a disagreement between me and him about the European Union, there were other things he threw up in his early speeches that you had hoped for and that have since seen about it. V.E.G. For example, a minister originally planned to improve his relationship with the United States. What is it now? In fact, they speak in the form of a cross when it is at the highest level. The minister has a conversation with the U.S. Secretary of Staff... comes out of a conversation and goes to the press and says the secretary asked for the army to return to Iceland. But no one is paying attention to this. It is not even discussed at the General Assembly of the Icelanders. That's what the State Department has become today. In fact, that's the way it is when it's the highest. The secretary of state, as well as the mayor of Reykjavík, gives much more attention to foreign affairs when the mayor speaks. The Arctic region, which was hoped to reach its highest level. There was a minister who said to keep going, just lost, lost. All that's going on is in the Ministry of Presidency. That's a long way to count. This is the only thing. That's why this is the case. I'd like to agree with it for a second. One senator said how sad it is to see the contents of this case. If you're going to put this institution down, it's not to be done with this kind of equipment, that it's going to be a well-worked institution, that it's because it wasn't in harmony with foreign policy, it's been blurred. [[The president calls.]] I don't like this. I'm sure that's what I'm gonna do. A senator, as he appeared earlier, feels that way in my heart.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u46	President. It is now, as we have here before come for joy and for the government's sake, that we have entered the second half of this terms. This, of course, will result in an immediate emergency. Ministers to leave something behind, but at the same time, some of the books begin to be contained by us on the watch. We follow up on what the Ministers bring to the council and take care of it, treating it in political context, such as the Supreme Court. Minister's here. I tend to say, as if the Minister of Foreign Ministers of the present time, with all the pales on the air in international affairs, whether you look toward Arctic or North/south, which has nothing greater, more important or more important than a bill to legalize the European Development Agency, I feel that it can be questioned his political affairs at all. It reminds me of the highest. The Minister of Industrial and Business, who brought a natural pass bill to the last council, and since then little has been reported. If the highest. The minister is going to hold this case for stress, which his large contribution to the terms of the election seems to me that he will support them with similar eulogy.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u47	Mr. President. V.E.G. Of course, a minister had business in politics. He showed this and proved beyond any doubt during the last terms. I remember telling you at some point in conversation that this is the growing foreign minister of the Agency. I joined him in certain hopes. I think it's perfectly normal to the highest. Ministers believe differently from me, for example, regarding the EU. That was the best thing to do. Minister, that was stopping the EU application. But how did he succeed? Yes, the highest. Sometimes a minister whispers into the nothing after the application has been stopped. It is no more stopping than the fact that a new government can pick it up whenever it wants. I mention this as an example of my lack of determination in the highest degree. A minister does, although I am not necessarily asking that he try to find her again and apply in the language I mentioned earlier. But I feel that the highest. Ministers are to embrace litigation groups, such as development cooperation and the organization we are discussing because no one else does. These are neglected lawsuits. They've always stayed by. Therefore, a person entrusted with a trust should be careful to care for them from the heart, from the heart, from the heart, and from the heart. That's what I think it is. Minister not done. This suggests that the Agency is being laid down, but on what basis? Not professionally, because the professional adulation in this country has said: "No. On the contrary, it is to be strengthened and reassigned to projects that are present at the Ministry. Not for financial reasons. That's on the tip of the highest. Minister that this will not save a dollar. What are the material arguments? The highest question has been asked. A minister of them for two years, and they haven't yet arrived. They're just whims. V.E.G. A minister was conned to deliver this case from his officials who wanted to gather more power fibers into the Ministry and he would not escape this prison. But he himself has put himself in the position of having no other issue. That's why. [[The president calls.]] It's a little sad for a man who's just as full of dishes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u48	Mr. President. This may not mean much more than that. A senator went over, but I would like to agree, as I reasoned in my previous case, that developing cooperation is a group of paintings to be cognizantly associated with, which should be treated with respect. As I explained in my case when we spoke about the affairs of foreigners and developing cooperation, the subject that requires decisions to sustain elections and live by the ideal period is what we are talking about the united faces of Iceland toward the outside world. It's a test of the highest order. A minister of such a language, and it becomes clear that such things as these are made of what men are made of, any political matter made of which men are made. Whatever it is. A senator tore up here on business and errands, because that's what I've been saying against him, is that business and business is not about whether they agree or not. It's about whether people have anything to offer. If it's the only thing at the highest. Minister has to offer, i.e. this case, which has been repeatedly presented here that each foreign minister after another has got his own board through history, and has most well handled as some interior wish which man has not wanted to achieve, if that is all the Minister has ever asked to offer and to contribute to the council, it is quite a small contribution.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u49	President. This is now a bit déjà vu, a nice man said to me this weekend on the discussion of the development community organization that was here last week, indicating that there was something here to repeat in the discussion of this same subject at the last council. But I ask: How else is it possible when you deliver a bill that is completely unchanged, a bad bill that remains the same since the end of the last council? There is not a single consideration of the case or of the visitors who came before a foreign - language committee, where much was asked and spoken. This was shown during a discussion last week, though, which was not a repetition of what happened last year, that one member of the committee, hm. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, did not understand why he should be in charge of this arrangement because nothing had been shown in the work of the State Department of State last year, which gave valid evidence that this was done. Therefore, we must express our opinions on this matter, and they have not changed since last year, so we must repeat our opposition to this proposal, especially since we are now six months closer to the fact that the so - called the challenge of OECD development is scheduled to be carried out in 2016. This is six months shorter than last March, so it is incomprehensible why it can't be waited for and applied when it is revised. But it can be at the top. By all means, does the minister of the Foreign Minister want this disturbing change to be done on the EEA's budget before peer review? Is that possible? Is that so? For many years, this has been a major subject of interest to government officials in the Ministry of State. Could it be that they are even more pressured by the minister that he will rush into this work before peer criticism is known? Or is it, as I hardly believe, that this is the greatest case of the Minister this year? I don't want to believe it because it's the highest. During the previous Senate hearing, a minister made a proposal that there would be agreed on a national security policy and that would be important to me, and I would have hoped the Minister would continue that course. Although there was a relatively wide agreement about that policy, people will want to discuss it, and I think it is more important to discuss it than this. So I have to describe my frustration with the highest priority. Minister, if you don't mind me saying so. It is interesting, as has been mentioned repeatedly in these discussions, that here is to put down an organization that no one has complained about, which seems to be a good job everywhere, which the Government Accounting Awards Best Score. Men who know feel that it is better that an institution of this sort is not entirely in the public system, but it is a special institution. While such activity may be recognized somewhere in the council, there is a larger Ministry, where it is a greater branch and separate from the traditional affairs of foreign service. But it has been observed, at the beginning of the discussion, that it seems to be a special interest for the Minister to get rid of the director of the Agency. Still, a minister of government promises him a high priority, but he has been informed that if of the change, he will not be included in the Ministry of State. However, it says by the bill that all the employees of the Agency will be offered comparable jobs in the Ministry except this one and why on earth? But exactly this point seems to me to be the only thing new in this discussion since last year. Some have concluded that this may be because the director and the personnel of the Agency did not communicate with a foreign legal committee at the last council. I won't say it, but it's not good if officials can think of it, or feel they can't say what they think is right and best because they're afraid of being intimidated by their superiors, or I'm not talking about losing my job. We certainly do not want to be in such an environment, a respectable president. I don't believe it, but at least most of us agree on it. In development, a very important work is being done, but as noted before, it is totally different from the work being done at the Ministry of State. There is also a work of great importance, but no other work is being done in a developing research agency. Of course, the minister of foreign policy in development is not in the Ministry, and it is of course possible that he will do so in closer cooperation with the Generalist and civilist organisations or the university community. But there are experts to implement policy. The bill suggests the establishment of a special development team. It should be 15 men and set for four years. The minister appoints the representatives and does so in the following way: The chairman of the Committee is appointed without a form of appointment, and he shall be a specialist in the field of evolution and have experience in it. Five members of the General Assembly shall be elected by the Council. Five agents shall be ordered to agree with the Icelandic civil organisations involved in international development cooperation and humanitarian assistance, two agents shall be appointed to agree with the Scientific Committee and two representatives shall be appointed in consultation with the labour market. A respectable president. I've had this discussion before, and it's been said in objections I've had with the senators, describing the surprise of these five members of the General Assembly. I don't think there are a lot of cases that could be as cross political as the development team. In his talk earlier, why not? paritaprevir In this regard, Svavarsdóttir Svavarsdóttir's case was viewed as a refugee case and as a senior. The Minister of the Interior Minister Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir set up a committee and appointed one from each category to have everyone's viewpoint. This bill suggests that on a developing committee there will be five members of Congress. Based on today's council groups, it is not one from each category. Maybe there should be more senators from a position of government or government, what do I know, but it would be an inappropriate arrangement for management of the Developmental Research Organization. I also wondered if there are six members of Congress that are now, and they can well be fewer, and they can also become more numerous, so I think that this point, five members of the General Assembly, is very incomprehensible. The bill assumes that the Minister introduces a report to the General and then introduces a plan of action to the General. I think we should take a closer look at this whole thing before we start putting the Agency down as we planned here. I don't think the council is moving any closer to development, even though a member of each body is on a developing committee. It doesn't work that way, Mr. President. The Parliament would be much closer to this institution if it were the annual custom to report to the Agency and be discussed at the council. It would be given an hour or two, and then there would be a plan of action, perhaps every other year, it could be suitable, and then all members of the council would be involved here in the chamber. To send one man or two members of each body of Congress does not make any special presence between the council and this group of paintings. It doesn't work that way. I thought maybe the Minister figured it out. These are my speculations. Hv. paritaprevir The Ögmundur of Jónasson has suggested this discussion that we are content to discuss just the administration and how to bring the Developmental Research Institute to the council, as it seems to be some thought in the bill, to cover it, but to leave other factors to wait for the peer and then make a complete review of the entire structure when it is available. It's not long enough, perhaps just six months, but unfortunately, there seems to be a number of indications that the minister prefers more than anything else to have done this evil before the equal effort. I can't help agreeing with what happened last week in the matter of some senators' judgment on the minister's attitude toward authority, how he puts it, without consulting anyone, without doing anything that came up in the State Department of State in the last winter, has already told the director that he will not be hired and that he will not get a job in the Ministry of State. During the last summer of a trip to the developing world, a minister had no member of a developing organization in his entourage, as if his plans to do so were laid down. Then he thinks it's done and done, but that's not how it is, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u50	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A candidate for a fine talk that brought some very important and persistent questions to mind, perhaps especially why. Ministers are so concerned with changing the law prior to DAC peer review. Like a snooze. A senator came into his case as we are now six months closer to the fact that this review is already ahead of us. And as well as it's all right, maybe because of that, there's no evidence to support this, if that's why it's possible that there's such a rush to get it through, that the Minister doesn't really have evidence, is not ready to answer, and that's why he just wants to run it through. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whose speech ended was to reflect on the authority and tendency of the highest degree. Governments to draw power. Hv. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir pointed out earlier that a minister does not order the council. Rather, he seizes his power to the council. Away from now on. The majority of the members of the body have been prominent in this discussion, as if they feel that the matter is out of place, at least not in relation to the participation. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Parliament: How does this affect the future work of the Generals? Now some people have a why. Councilmen spoke of the respect of the Generals. Are these practices, the way the discussion is conducted here, in order to increase respect and trust in the Council?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u51	President. Yes, the absence of council officials from these discussions shows a lack of interest in these matters and, in fact, no interest. Far from now, there may be a little more screaming than before because there has literally not been one person here, I think, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh paritaprevir The village of Sæmundsson answered or spoke in response when the discussion was just beginning at 2 p.m. 8 o'clock in the evening, since the matter began at the beginning of the assembly, it was recommended. 7 or 8 in the evening. This is a very special thing I think I am. I don't know, but I've been thinking about it sometimes -- it's natural. Men have noted that the Ministers sit here on benches, sit as judges, or superiors, rather than those who were natural to sit among members of Congress. That is the way it should be in democracies. I sometimes wondered if people are a little confused about the crime scene. I have many friends who are ambassadors and sometimes laughed at being addressed to ◯our excellency. Sometimes a man like some of them felt a little bit like that, but it was now all a joke.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u52	Mr. President. I feel that there is no need to reflect on the topic of conversation or perhaps a lack of discussions that address differing political views. At any rate, I have noticed that much less communication takes place, but I expected it to be here and just so often miss the political discussion. Since being reasonable is not just the case, it is true of many other matters, but it certainly is also true of this matter. But then we may get back to the bill that is being discussed, it has been discussed in the discussion that the government has put the development teamwork into the political process with these changes. I've made a big question mark to whether it's cool to mix foreign policy, such as. Foreign trade and then development cooperation, and have asked the question, Who benefits? Is it likely that there will be an advantage for the poor people in countries who accept assistance in the form of development cooperation, or might there be benefits for an Icelandic company that could gain access to it? I'd like to ask you what. A senator will agree with me in that if the bill will be agreed with the proposed changes, i.e. Implementing a development team with a panel of five members, whether we need to have this part in mind, whether we are going into dangerous paths.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u53	President. If so, it would be a very treacherous course and certainly not allowed to enter it. But the danger is, of course, because in the Ministry itself, you are much closer to the business than when you are in the Development Organization, which is such an arm length away. Otherwise, I find this word arm length so boring that I'm always trying to find a new one, haven't found it. I think it was a number of years ago in all this development teamwork, not just here, I think it was foreign all over the place that what was paid for development would definitely be a move to domestics, so to speak, companies, companies or those who contributed to the money. It's been years since, but then it was foreign. It's quite written out in this study, that's not what it's meant. The contributions laid down there should all be on the grounds of those who receive or are given, but not on the grounds of those who give in, so that all that can be done is to avoid it in any way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u54	A respectable president. At the end of the discussion, I refer to my talk on the subject of the last council only a few words about this evil matter. It is totally incomprehensible to the highest degree. The minister of state is still speaking this case alone against 62 members of the council, for he obviously has no support anywhere, but he attacks it on the program day after day. Of course, it's a completely incomprehensible decision on the part of the Minister, for as it is said in English, if it is not a matter of fixing it, it might be published in Icelandic. The work has been accomplished successfully by a developing cohesive agency, and its wealth has been available in many places. There is a good job and no need to deposit it in the Ministry. This class also has an incomprehensible priorities in which everyone is crying out. We're putting too little money into development. Plans have been put aside to increase it to what we have committed to the international world. Instead of being ambitious for their plans or raising contributions to this category, we fill our international situation, the minister is busy trying to get this into his office. Why is that a bad idea? For one thing, it is a bad idea because it increases the risk of political corruption in the management of funds that serve within the market or corporate interests, but not the interests of those who are to be helped. Second, because the most important thing that has saved our small country from political corruption is strong independent organizations outside the council. There are many good research available. It was the point of the General's research report to protect professionalism and to keep the Ministry in check. Here we are going in the opposite direction, so there is every reason to counter the issue. Then, of course, it still adds to the reason for the council to put down when the Minister chooses to send a special notice to the head of the Development Agency that he does not have an opportunity for re-election, after the Agency and its employees have spoken against these ideas here in the conference. There is, of course, evidence to send a message to officials that they are not free to their opinions or that they can pay for them because of the political authority delivered by the Minister. It is a matter of great protests. Kant says in his essay What's Information? that the largest development in our part of the world began when officials were allowed to have independent opinions, was allowed to have opinions different from those of the rulers, because they began critical talk and exchanges that resulted in improvement. Any effort to use human resources or send a message that if they don't submit to the minister's will, they won't be able to get reimbursed in any way, we have to take a very firm hold here at the council. A respectable president. I hope that the outcome of this case will be the same as at the last council, that it will be successful at the Foreign Affairs Committee, and never again in the Senate, and least of all that it will be taken to this end or approved today; for there is only one man in this 63 people's hall who is interested in accomplishing it and no reason that he will be able to get through with it so much opposition, both in government and in a position of government that is actually to testify.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u55	President. I like many others who have expressed themselves on this matter here at the Senate Hall are deeply concerned about this experiment. Minister of Foreign Affairs to import such an important agency into his Ministry. I just wanted to ask you what. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar who he believes is real reasons for this government crisis and scourging. Is it so that you can erase an institution and can boast that you have simplified the administration? Is that why, like coo. A senator pointed out that it may not be popular among the chief rulers or even among the highest powers that officials get independence? We know that this country is so concerned with humanity that it has been a big problem how difficult it is for very many within our different systems, not just government officials, but also university officials, to be able to display independence. Even RUV has been threatened if it shows independence, that it will be taken from the law. So I wanted to ask the senator if he believes that this stirrgy and alleged simplicity will cause the work to be done around this important group of upsets, indiscriminates, and actually worse.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u56	A respectable president. It's easy to say: I think this arrangement will make the work worse. I believe that the main motivation behind the proposal is to increase power over funds and activities, to increase the political authority over this class, which is so important, that there is a transpolitic solidarity. In reality, it is surprising that the minister violates the fine monopoly that has been involved in this group of languages, in building cross - political bridges, and at just the times when people focus on improving our politicians so that we can get in more ways and in other matters to come together and work together as a team on the results and joint political projects. It's funny that the minister should strive to corrupt one of the lawsuits, since it has been successful until the highest level. The minister of the state of Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson sat in the minister's chair. I think it's very important that the council resist this fact because the increase in political influence in this category is not a step forward. In recent years, efforts have been made for many counselors and counselors to unite organizations under the Ministry or to unite organizations into one major institution where the Minister has been given the opportunity to recruit new administration. All of this aims to one end, to promote political and political influence. That's not what we're supposed to do. We're supposed to increase professionalism in our administration and part of it is to keep this operation from politics and to have a parapolitic solidarity over the professional lines that you intend to operate on in this business.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u57	President. This is a tragic development, and it is even possible to the highest. Ministers just got bad advice. I can't believe it's the highest. The minister of foreign affairs is so appealing that he is not prepared simply to revise this proposal. This reminds me of a lot of little artism that artist Elísabet Jökulsdóttir did in connection with today's refugee crisis. She picked up a video where a woman stands on a bridge and prevents anyone who wants to cross the bridge. Yet, the woman does not quite know why she is preventing all these different people from crossing the bridge. There is a bit of that union of power that I seem to be the purpose of this mistaken proposal. I just want to challenge the highest. Secretary of State to revise this proposal. I think it's very important that we stick together. There is a changed period of time since this proposal was proposed first. We simply live in a completely different world that is extremely important, as shown in the case of the day. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar, that we find a parapolitic platform to work together to ensure that this will not end in some kind of power tower of the woman on the bridge, since there is no explanation at all for decisions that are not in the hands of one of the officers, but that they are to be in the hands of people in the parapolitic work that has taken place around this group recently. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u58	A respectable president. A mistake can be made once. I thought in the last session that it was just a beginner mistake for the minister. Of course, then, humans must also learn from their mistakes. V.E.G. There is nothing to learn from this mistake, he is only making the same mistake again, and he is moving hard on his lonely expedition, which he is facing alone in opposition or neutrality to 62 members of the council here at the council, because he is sending a letter to the director of the Agency that it has consequences to protest or to point out the fault of his mistakes. However, it is of utmost importance that the foreign committee, that is, of course, the purpose of the Congress, prevents this error from going through here. What's the deal? Is it not so that here, both governments and government officials, were here to take a hand in front of the scene to inspect the refugee situation? Was it not this way here in this room just yesterday that the government was describing its joy with what the board was doing, and men were working together toward goals in the refugee business? Is it not so that people from all categories have sat down and discussed how we could share in developing cooperation? Is it not important that a foreign - language committee protect the vital parapolitic solidarity that has been involved in this series of lawsuits and wind from the category of drags and shrapnels that are being attempted? Because it will certainly not be for the benefit of international politicians but for the greater benefit of the group of political divisions from today's world.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u59	A respectable president. I want to start to thank you for the discussion that has made this matter clear. The case is presented here a second time, as many times has been observed. In fact, the discussion reflects what she was like when the first issue was presented, and little new has been observed in it, which has called for a specific reaction. However, I would like to try to answer a few questions that have come up and may be able to correct any misunderstandings that may have existed. First, I would like to mention and thank the thoughtful concern that includes the words of those who have expressed doubts about support in this matter. It's a administrative bill and it's approved by both members of the board of directors. I have no doubt that there is an interest in the board of directors on the subject. I'd also like to promote that when people criticize the work at this job, then 2013 was the basis for the review, a review of development teamwork, when we decided to become members of this DAC team. There were indications that led to our thinking that it was wise for us to reconsider or review how we are in development. To do this, we received a neutral external specialist, Þórir Guðmundsson, who I trusted fully, who thought most of us were trusting for years and for his good work in this field. He was completely free of charge with this, and he obtained a large report in which there are 401⁄250 suggestions. The suggestions I decided to include in this bill depend solely on the Agency's organization and then I'm going to review other suggestions from the Ministry and TheSSI, which are many interesting, once united. Þórir Guðmundsson returned the report with three possible benefits. But he specifically recommends one, and that's the way that's gone in this bill. Þórir's report reveals a number of factors in this regard. Some of these can be found in response to a request received from the council and were, of course, answered. This includes nine groups of people who reason on why it is professional to go this way. This can be found in the following report. I'm going to step aside very briefly to the personnel business before I go to another one. The bill shows that all staff staff staff staff will be offered comparable jobs. Of course, we will, and we will. Then, I'm sure a process will be taken if employees accept it, etc., so it's all in place. Of course, we heed all the rules that apply to us. Much of the discussion has been done about the director of the Agency, and I am amazed that the discussion took its place. Actually, at the beginning of this discussion, I felt sad about what plan she left on right away. There have been very great words concerning the minister who stands here, inciting, and innuendoing his mind and such things, which are often mentioned in this chair by men. The minister is accused of taking revenge against the presiding officer, but he is now no worse at the presiding officer than he is in the team of work working together, the fine officer. It is also surprising that the question has not been asked whether it will be possible to continue to make good use of the director's work. So it would have been simple to say yes. This, of course, is to be expected. As regards the director, officials are, and do not forget that the director is an official, appointed for five years. The director in itself is different from the usual staff, the recruitment is temporary. It was accompanied by a legal obligation to announce to the director now that this bill would be approved by a retortment. I have said so in this chair of discourse, and unfortunately, the generals have apparently not heard that they will not perform the bill, which, of course, I hope not to be, will be published, and there is no one who forbids this fine man to ask for it. Thus, all of this is done in harmony with certain laws and regulations. It has been so strange to discuss why the director did not accompany the minister to Malawi. I just ask, why? There's about eleven people on the line from Iceland in Malawi, a very good field manager, so I think this is a plan that you don't have to go down on. They've been arguing about a lot of things and even suggesting that the State Department has people who don't know how to handle these matters. I'd like to state that there are no less staff at the State Department today to cover development issues than those of the YSSI administration. Today, about 60% of the money that is going into development is already in the Ministry of State, when it comes to multi-time development cooperation. Speaking of this, people have also claimed that the Ministry's employees may be getting some form of power or that they want money or that the minister is greedy for money, which is on the scene of two - side development cooperation. To review this to members of the council who do not remember it entirely, there are rules that apply to how this money is spent. For example, it is presented with a conclusion that the Council agrees on how it is so divided. Today, this is about 60% and 40% in two-sided and many-sided, and there is no suggestion that it will be changed in the data or in the current bill. A political committee is said to be part of a development team. I have to admit that I don't understand that discussion because we're talking about a 15-man committee and there's only five members in it, of which there are probably only three of them from the greater part at any given time. The rest are people from the university community, people of the labour market, etc. How can that committee become political, at least not in behalf of the administrative sector at any given time? It reminds me of something - the 15th man is appointed by the minister, but there is one man. Since then, peerism has been spoken of, and there is obviously a big misunderstanding about it here. As I said, peer review took place in 2013 or when we were entering the DiaC system and are expected to start next year. But, hey. Councilmen, its results are not available within six months or at the beginning of the next year, the estimated year 2017. Hence, it is unwise to wait for her when we are already building on a review of 2013, which included the following article. explains that it is necessary to inspect the overall organization, the development process, as it was then known. I've answered this incredible presentation with all the panels at the employees and the Ministry, etc. and that a minister doesn't like staff. There's only been talk about transport obligations here. I've said I'd love to make it work, I have to admit that there may be something legal that stands in the way of that, but I would have wanted employees to decide if they could enter the transport package or be outside. I know it's employees who like to get into the transport obligations. And don't forget that, anyway. Senators, there's a transfer in the TSSI. There are publishers who are sent by TheSSI at the stations we have today, whether Uganda, Malawi, or Mozambique. So it's not like it's something new. I really hope that there will be a time to respond to the demands of the workers. It has been suggested that only the successful government can be identified within the United States. Most of the institutions, if not all of those with whom the Ministry of State is working today, often, work on such standards and such practices. Peacekeepers were spoken of. It is absolutely right here that these jobs or projects are not advertised. There is a reason for that. Often this is how you need to deal with it immediately, you need to answer it the day after which you can send it, etc. But instead there is a list of people who are interested in this, they can register on and in the vast majority of cases, that I think, people are taken from the list and sent out to have something to offer, whether it is in the media, rights, equality or how it is. This has its own explanation. Here, too, the work of developing cooperation with other projects in the Ministry was being grafted together earlier. It's as wrong and stupid as it may be when the Ministry today runs a powerful development network and the plan is to coordinate all of this. Of course, I refuse that some premise is for unity. As I said earlier, she is being reasoned on by nine teams, at least in the report submitted to the generals. However, the debate here has been made on a strange strategy in which men are involved with the personnel of the Ministry, and there is a debate concerning the interests of ministers for this project, etc. Of course I refuse. Then there was some senator, I don't exactly remember who it was, who wondered if a minister would be able to endure compared with other senators when it was time to succeed. Of course, I had complete confidence in it. I really hope this case succeeds because the goal is to promote and make Iceland's development partnership stronger, more efficient and better than it is today. There's got to be something everyone wants to go for.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u60	Mr. President. I think that's important in this discussion and the highest. Ministers have declared that even if this bill is accepted, the active force of the Director of the YSSI will be used. It matters because of the way the discussion has been given the highest priority. Minister. It has all been on the basis of the need to substantiate the Agency because it does not completely match foreign policy because it is being double-developed and overlaped. What was remarkable about a talk was the highest. Of course, a minister was of course the questions raised in each of the talks of the management body right here, and he applied just what he could do. A minister made arguments in his historical history not to answer. There was no evidence that there are any special business reasons why the Agency should be submitted. No other material reasoning was presented in the reply speech at the highest. Minister on why. There were no financial reasons for this. V.E.G. The Minister continues to refer to the DEC report. There is one reference to the need for consideration from the specific material to be made. But what was it? Yes, it is because of the high percentage of budgets being made up of two-way projects going through the Ministry. Clearly, that's why DAC wanted to change. Other than that, all the indications contained in the DEC report were based on the Agency's receiving much more money and how to deal with it. It didn't. Then it's not completely accurate at the top. Minister that no new requests have been made since this bill was submitted. What's new is even that the professional prowess of the country, i.e. The National Institute of Social Science, has given an opinion on this bill and the conclusion is absolutely conclusive, on the contrary, considered wrong for the Agency to be laid down, while it feels that it is best to bring all the projects from the Ministry to the Agency. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's new, and it wasn't answered by the highest level. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u61	A respectable president. Among the species of moisture that have been identified as the cohesion of the Development Research Organization at the Ministry is that, in some respects, both institutions would do two - sided and multiway work, on one hand. A greater and greater overall view of policy is available, for example, and the overall organization will be simplified, then the work is no longer performed in two places like this by international cooperation and a two - sided team. Of course, efficiency will increase when the group of languages is on one hand. Then there will be no greater need for time - consuming consultation between institutions. A delivery office will be controlled by one hand. Man - made management becomes more practical when it is possible to divide work between small groups and afford additional opportunities for staff, etc. The conclusions and proposals on which this bill is based, as I mentioned earlier, are the basic proposal that is presented in the recommended report by the son of Þórir Guðmundsson, which gives evidence that it is wise to go this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u62	Well, then I'd like to think about it for the highest. The minister that when a counselled counselor returned his report initially, there was no suggestion that a developing research agency would be laid down. No suggestion. It was said that the success of moving things together in one place, similar to the attitude of Davíð Oddsson at the time, the same attitude as the social sciences of Iceland's University has, to be perfectly clear. It was not until the report had been examined at the highest level. A minister that this came out of her and was assigned to the committee. In this matter, I feel that it is important to consider whether some kind of reconciliation can be made in this matter. V.E.G. A minister considers all signs of waiting for a report to be made by the Development Committee because it should not arrive until 2017. Nevertheless, I do believe that if you really want to make peace, you should look at it. There's nothing that gets lost while you're doing it because it's even gonna show up. in the talk of the Supreme Court. Minister of the Agency is doing very well. The point is not that there is a need to sharpen some kind of policy or to improve efficiency because it is observed by the Ministry's personnel, the OECD Development Committee shows that communication is unstupulous, there is no overlap in policy development. This doesn't make any sense. The minister, of course, is the minister. A minister who shapes the policy on the basis of what he is assigned by the Council, which is the Agency that then implements. That's what's at the top. The minister is breaking down this bill, of course, is the rule that Government Accounting has been developing in every state's institutions for monitoring and implementation at the same time. So here is a big step back in discussing healthy and good administrative matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u63	A respectable president. The question is, What is the answer? Of course, these are still some in favor of the minister. A senator will join, but this is how his language has been in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u64	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. The minister of his speech and rejoices that he entered the discussion at the end of the discussion, so that there can be some communication here at the end of the discussion after we have considered the discussion. V.E.G. The minister spoke in his speech about the overlap, the inefficiency that existed because the development teamwork was in two places, i.e. On the one hand in the Ministry and on the other, in the Development Organization. This is one of the things we've been discussing here, and what's been called after is that we need an example. I haven't seen the highest. A ministerial servant provides a case of where this overlap is, where the inefficiency is. It would help me to understand the matter better if it was just a knegret, where is this problem? I'd also like to ask the highest. A minister to another, since this has been a significant review of whether it is a good idea to mix evolutionary cooperation with diplomatic emphasis or other foreign policy. ASI paraphrases simply show that if the diplomatic emphasis gets involved in the discussion, the contribution countries will be leading their own interests, not the interests of the poor, but their own. I'd like to hear the Minister's vision of the exact case, because this is something I'm worried about.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u65	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer and the questions. The Senator specifically asked an example of overlap. An example of overlap is, of course, that both sides today are involved in developing issues, even two - sided in one way or another. For example, there's an overlap. We have three e - mail offices that are handled by the development community today; Malawi; Mozambique; and Uganda. As a result, the Diplamian is, at least, quite much connected to those jobs. But I think, if I try to figure out what the ground man of the Senate is about to do, the change was recently made on how we actually do development projects, all of that has developed into more surveillance and follow-up. We don't have a team of Icelanders working on the field, exactly helping out. We're following the money we give the ratio to the right places, that this will strengthen the locals, the rest of the county governments, etc. That's the way it is today, and that's how it's gonna be exactly the same. Then, in effect, we're not going to play around, not in here, sorry about that, Mrs. President, the local government. I know and I absolutely admit that the comments are from some governments that we go that way. But this is a very effective way. We'll see that the money goes to the right place, it's new, and this will also strengthen the infrastructure in local communities and the provinces where the local government is. So I don't think we need to be afraid of this while we keep that approach ours and there's no plan to change it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u66	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. Of course, it is good, and I agree that doing secular work should be in the hands of local people. However, I do not feel that I have received satisfying answers to whether there is no danger that the state that provides the situation will be affected more fully by what is fortified and what is done because we as a rich nation have the money. I quoted earlier in ASI's review. I'd also like to quote the review of Iceland's Social Sciences School. It says that all research shows that developing cooperation improves the standard of living, health, and education. Of course, that is what we want to do. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ Studies also show that the quality and efficiency of developing cooperation is reduced when contributions are made to their own interests, e.g. Business interests, politics, are involved in the distribution of progressive development issues. Hopefully, no one will make it a goal to let this work as a team. But does the minister disagree that this needs to be done gently to the earth, for with these changes it is much shorter that this is possible, and hence that the public belief in evolutionary cooperation can simply decrease?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u67	A respectable president. I disagree with what you're saying. A senator begins to wonder that it is less likely that there will be any danger. To this day, of course, there are agreements on these projects. Contract agreements are made with the Mangochi federal government on how the funds are spent and on what projects are being carried out. Of course, in this case today the government has made such agreements by the Ministry. It's not that the THRE or some other institution has nothing to say about the money. That's an agreement. Is that true? Yeah, I think it must be right to do it that way. We must have something to say about where the money goes if we don't give it to a local government or another 10 million. K. or whatever it is, we have to make sure that they go to health care, school, wells, or whatever it is, not just in some kind of assignment they feel pretty, and God knows who they are. So there must be contracts and they are made. I'm not so worried, not really worried, as the senator about what we're doing, that it mixed with politics or something else. We do know, however, that in some countries, in fact, some countries are running a very specific development team, and it involves what they call commercial development teamwork. She does not need to be of the bad. Not at all. It can affect, for example, the structure of the interior and the number of countries that need it. This does not necessarily have to be the bad part. [[The president calls.]] But we need to be careful.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u68	A respectable president. I would recommend a bill to correct a change in the law on the insurance policy and the operation of pension funds, No. 129/1997, with subsequent changes. The bill suggests two adjustments to provisional VI in law No. 129/1997, of the related insurance rights and the activities of pension funds, that stipulate a temporary variation from the 2.mg. Thirty-nine. The law on allowable difference between the inmates and the pension bonds of pension funds. According to the current Regulation, the difference between ownership and future commitment to insurance analysis can not exceed 10% for 2014. In 2014, insurance analysis of the A-section of Penitentiary Services Associations by the year 2014 has revealed 12.3% difference in this subject and is therefore out of the legal limits of the A department. Substantial work has been carried out on recent losses in order to establish a single pension system for the entire population. This work is not finished, and it is suggested that pension funds be reimbursed to have more than 2 mg recommended. Thirty-nine. The law on this subject. The proposal not to make any adjustment in the arrangement means that the head of the Penetration Fund of the workers'Partners is to increase the contribution pay paid for those next October 1, as per 31 p.m. The approved fund. A- team 1st. It is therefore suggested that the pension fund be allowed to have up to 13% difference between the stakeholders and the future commitments for 2014 instead of 10%. B-jords 1st. it is suggested that the year 2014 be added to the agreement that a pension fund will be allowed to have up to 13% difference between ownership and future commitments for that year. Congress is getting accustomed to receiving this bill in the fall. It's pretty sad in its own way. I guess I did that, at least. a year ago, if not also the year before, to say that I would not bring such a thing again. I was hoping I wouldn't have to come back to that sort of thing again. What you can say on this occasion, however, is that in the meantime, the position of the Pension Fund in your community is improved. This is not the situation at the Department of Penitentiary that calls out the need for extension of this provisional principle, which in itself is not to be especially happy when others are in the same situation. As I have so far explained, it may be especially the work that is still being done, and it has caused me great disappointment that I have not been better able to move forward, the work of balanceing the bio rights of the labour market between the public market and the general, which is the main reason for my belief that I have made a lot of effort to avoid the expense. If that were the result, the difference between this fund and the general market would be even greater, i.e. The task we face would be even more complex, and the gap between the systems will be even wider. That's why this case is presented here. I believe that the council does the right thing by working very quickly to complete this matter, as has been the result of many recent years. I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. after this discussion and offers the help of the Ministry to review the case if requested.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u69	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize public finances. The matter was presented first to the Council of 2014, mainly in the introduction at that time, after which it arrived again in the spring Council of 2014 and was treated in a financial capacity in a financial committee. Celebrity. The case is now presented for the third time, since it did not finally get paid for the last assembly. The bill includes total laws on the financial and community that highlight the long-term policy threshold of public finance and increase discipline in budget handling. The bill can be divided into four major factors. First, it involves a defined and formal process of long-term policy barriers and co-ordination in the financial and rural sectors. Second, the bill recommends the careful preparation of a bill for funding and the adjustment of its production to strengthen the budget management process and to ensure perspective. Third, the bill suggests that funding management will be supported to reduce the degree of variation. Fourth, the bill includes changes in government accounts and information on government finances, all of this in order to ensure transparency. As I have reported at the earlier contributions of the bill, there are several reasons why it is time to revise the laws of the state's income that took effect in 1998. Clearly, legal improvements in government financial policies need to be improved and more emphasis is placed on long - term spending priorities. Similarly, increasing coordination between the state and the community is important in planning the scope of the work, implementation, and survival. At the WHO level, too little has been said about the long - term prospects and development of the state budget or the financial community. The bill establishes that the Council is more likely to become a policy developing in that area. During the preparation of the bill, the emphasis was on the changes in government legislation on public finances, including those that have marked the changes in government legislation in other countries. correspondent in the North. Last year, when I gave the language a basic bill, it was explained, but it is only a short discussion of its main emphasis. State and rural society, as we have seen, will continue to be covered on a global scale and by the institutions and companies of half or more of their own. Conventional policies, as I've established some of them, are emphasized and will be looked around for a longer period than ever before. On the one hand, each government must submit to the General Economic Policy at the beginning of the terms of the term. In financial policy, the primary objective for the next five years should be to set up on the scope and development of public funds, including state and economy, as well as general reports of how baseline sustainability and stability will be achieved. However, it is expected that every 1 April, the government will provide a budget plan for the development of public funds for both countries and rural groups every five years and that they will report income growth and exchanges between causes. As a result, financial agendas include further implementation of financial policy goals and the key executives for the production of a bill to be submitted until the fall. As men can assume, in this interaction between financial policy and then the financial strategy is to expect economicism to become relatively short - lived, relatively short - lived document with these main focus points, the major long - term goals, and the development of financial plans to be somewhat more detailed, yet look forward to the main goals that the government has presented in its financial policy in the beginning of the terms of the term. With contributions from financial programs, participation in the Parliament has become quite different and beyond the shape of government financial goals, which should be considered in terms of budgeting for the coming years. The detailed regulations and conditions apply to financial programmes, but the plan shall include those in accordance with established financial guidelines. I'm here to go over them briefly: First, the total benefit of the government over a five-year period should always be positive and yearly below 2.5% of national product. Secondly, the total debt, apart from pension bonds and business debts and other sources of funds and bank accounts, should be less than 30% of the gross domestic product. Third, make progress in subsiding debt. It is thus assumed that if the debt ratio of the government is greater than 30%, according to the rule I traced, the excess to be reduced on average every three years by at least 5% each year. This refers to 5% of the excess. These financial rules of the bill restrict the decision on the scope and development of the government. In recent years most countries in OECD have adopted financial standards of some nature and are generally considered to be highly positive. In addition to the financial rules set out here, it was discussed with the bill whether to add a rule that limited the interest of expenses. Such a rule can be a fine price. The conclusion? Not to add such a rule formally. However, in this regard it is important to keep in mind that with contributions from financial programmes, which should include stability goals, sustainable finance of the public and proper precautions are being taken into account. Then I want to know that the bill assumes that financial planning will be established. The evaluation of financial and financial policies should be made to meet the baseline values of the bill and the other relevant conditions, including financial regulations. In this way the legislatures and legislation will be granted professional support and contribute to the increased credibility of the official financial administration. A few words on the financial principle: I believe that it is one of the core aspects of this matter to promote financial laws. Given the reasons, since I have only noticed that men in writing and in some places in discourses mention the strictness of the rules under certain circumstances, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the bill assumes that under certain circumstances, such as economic difficulties, a special decision can be made in the council to temporarily deviate from these rules. The rules, however, are not more strict than those of today's State Department that, despite up to 55 billion's, could be met. But it could not be continued every year, they would have to work towards survival, thus fulfilling the five - year total survival requirement. This, however, gives a strong picture of the degree of flexibility in the rules. Another factor is that according to the second law of the bill, as I mentioned correctly, when economic events occur, it can be done under specific circumstances to propose to the council a proposal to depart from the Order. I also feel that it is worthy of special discussion that the minister responsible for the budget and this long - term plan should not be able to announce that man is temporarily compromising the rules. Rather, he needs to take up a special discussion at the council, making this a special suggestion, and she needs to make a decision. This enhances discipline and keeps one within the boundaries of the law in this regard. On the other hand, this gives a measure of flexibility and takes into account that under certain circumstances the general rules may be met. However, there will always be assessment at any given time. One of the more important indicators of the bill is the changing production of the budget bill. The purpose is to improve the identification of the focus and priorities of the bill. Funding changes are made in the process of switching expenses between 35 causes and about 100 cases, although expenses will still be defined on the basis of the European Commission's work programme, i.e. can be used with advice. Thus, it will be possible to read the bill, whether by these 35 language fields or by language groups under them, or to see how this is arranged by consultations. Then, in the bill, emphasis is given on careful policy development for the topic fields and litigators that are to be shared by the professional minister and to be presented with financial management programmes. In the Ministry's policy, the emphasis and goals, including quality and services targets, should be expressed on the development of the work that will depend on his topic and on how goals will be achieved in terms of budget and timing. Thus, the strategy is the basis for the provision of budgets for litigation and litigation, as it will appear in financial terms. It is clear that with the demand for improved policy policies for the topic field, there is a significant increase in the size of the Ministry. This will require more long - term thought, not just in the Ministry of finance and in the case of Congress, but in all the Council of the Council. As you will see in the review of the official financial office at the Ministry of finance, this team will lead to some of the costs at the introduction of the bill. It will have to strengthen the administration to meet these increased demands. I believe they'll be well spent to ensure careful policy management in all the budgets. If it succeeds, I believe it will have a very positive effect on all the discussions of the budget at any time, on the budget, on the budget, and on a deeper discussion of individual schemes, and on national events at one time. I'd also like to mention in this relationship that there's no way we can expect that by the first year, we will have a complete and complete system for these policies. It will take some time to build up knowledge, experience, and ability to perform this role, but the key point is that I think it is a right step now to call upon the Ministry to produce such long - term dating on its own. Then I'd like to mention that the duties of a minister to institutions will be better defined than so far according to the law and the definition of responsibility. Thus, the development of the strains must fall to the objective of the topic field and to the Minister's monitoring that this is part of the bill. It consists of a clearer law than earlier on the implementation of budgets, including It is recently stated that a minister should answer the presiding committee within 15 days about his position on the proposed response of the director. What I would like to have said here is that he should answer the director's position about the manager's indications or the proposed reaction to the position that has come up to form because funds have been too tight. In this regard it should be noted that in the bill, the minister is also expected to receive a means to cope with the changed circumstances, such as through reserves for all kinds of cases. This is a very typical topic of conversation here at the Assembly Hall. What should be done when legal authority is limited? What should be the reaction when pressures on certain institutions prove to be more than human resources? When such situations arise, it is very important that the responsibility is clear and how to deal with those in charge and with those in charge. Similarly, we need to make sure that those responsible have some tools to play in order to respond. I believe this is a very important step in progress, hoping that people will look at and respect this modern - day statement in the light of the fact that this is not a matter of bringing responsibility from officials to counselors but rather of sharpening the responsibility of the advisers to give clear answers within the stated delay. There is no unlimited time for humans to deal with the situation that is brought to the attention of those in authority. In that sense, this is to strengthen the executives of the institutions in achieving their goals, including their own. By law. The bill contains new indicators that focus on the annual report on the activities of the first year to be published by each minister. The results of spending should be thoroughly explained in grammatical fields and seminaries, as well as in the benefits of the provision of funds. Here, too, is an example of increased responsibilities laid on the Ministry in order to publish a sort of statement on the subject under which they hear. This should be a major improvement in the relations between the council and the Commission. In view of the change in budget format, I would also like to state and projects to be shown in a special budget that will be published by the budget but will discuss the budget for individual institutions and subjects often have been time - consuming during the conference treatment. The change in funding for the Member State in a special follow-up is a factor in making a discussion of the total budget and a more comprehensive policy on the state's budget rather than on the amount of financial resources it has to do with it. This does not mean that there is anything coming from the council to have opinions on the financial resources of the individual Member States, since they will exactly be included in the accompanying copy for discussion. It is of great importance that the success and general agreement of this change in financial and financial production will be good. The Parliament can change the budget itself and, for example, raise financial resources for causes of suffering or lawsuits, with an explanation that the individual Member States may not receive enough money with reference to the copy of the accompanying copy. Such a change would result in an updated copy for this reason. In the end, the council itself will determine the outworking of matters. What do members of Parliament want to be in the foreground? This suggests that there are policy issues, i.e. The big picture, although it is broken down on individual categories of subjects that should be discussed. As I mentioned, experience may tell us that there are frequent courtyards and that individual teams down to a few hundred thousand dollars are given an unusual amount of time and much more attention than the big picture. Although the bill points the road and aims the way for the discussion with this adjusted presentation, nothing is taken from the council, and the adjustment will ultimately not be the determining factor but the willingness of members of Congress to change to something, to a degree, the emphasis on the discussion at the council. No one, neither he who stands here nor anyone else, can tell others what to do. This is in the spirit of what is known elsewhere, and by this change, people are trying to draw a lesson from the way these proceedings are presented at other councils and, as I have mentioned, to contribute only to the changing emphasis of the conversation at the World Council. Time will then reveal how the senators want it to be. At the same time, it is appropriate to mention that the council is at the same time being given a better tool to monitor how the budget works. It is also important to remember that the council will have to meet its own plans, its own framework, which it will set up with a financial plan in the spring. That's the connection between spring and spring discussion. It is hoped that there will be a stream of simplicity for the discussion of the bill for budgeting in the fall that the council has already taken the overall objective, for example, for consideration and payment. It is important that within the same year, there will not be any new viewpoints in the discussion. Finally, it is in the hands of the Council itself to make sure that this decision does not really change. Of course, some changes may be expected from what is discussed in this material in the spring to the autumn, but not in any major or basic matter. Then, of course, we should expect that in the meantime, some external factors may change that may affect the overall picture, which is quite another story. A respectable president. Work on this bill started in the last term. I have found that there is an excellent convergence to make the changes in the environment of the government that the bill proclaims. I don't expect everyone to agree on every point, but I feel that I have had an excellent share. If the bill is approved at the General Assembly of the current year it is expected to take effect on January 1, 2016. However, the implementation of the bill will take time, so major factors are expected to take place in stages. The 2016 bill as well as the 2016 bill for financial contributions and final budgets, and in 2016 there are regulations on government interest, No. 88/1997, and the same applies to each Member State's annual accounts through 2016. This plan would be submitted first to the next year, prior to April 1, 2016, and should be valid for the period 2017-2021. As a result, the 2017 bill will depend on the regulations of the bill. In this context, it is worth saying that within the Council's Council, it has been started to prepare the bill's uptake. In this way, a project manager for the implementation of the bill has been working on a project plan to establish a number of workgroups and groups in order to mark the channel of the induction to the extent possible. This has been done in spite of the lack of final payment here, but considering that there seems to have been a fairly broad agreement on the matter, it is clear that the European Commission must be prepared to take the case in accordance with the validation regulations as outlined here. Finally, a respectable president, I simply believe that this case will be a significant step forward. The subject specifically addressed to the bill is well - known to members of the Parliament. The present legislation has proved to be well - established and was, in a sense, a landmark law at the time of those laws, but now has the opportunity to take the next steps to ensure that we will be even more effective in these matters in the years to come. In this case, Madam President, I suggest that the case be referred to a second. at the end of this and to the budgetary committee for treatment.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u70	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. The secretary of finance for the speech, declaring it, so that there is no doubt that, so far, I agree with the objectives of this bill. I'm coming up here to talk to the highest. Secretary of the General's position in this matter. He says there's a great need to strengthen the administration, and on behalf of us, I can promise him that we're not going to be able to do that, for we believe that strong administration is extremely important to the public interest. The role of the Generalis is referred to here as a better position to evaluate and make decisions on the development of public languages and that the procedure will be strengthened by more accurate information, so that this will be better information for the Council. I agree, but I think it's extremely important that in view of the U.S. Shepherd's jurisdiction, the General Assembly will be strengthened in this way that there will be a high-level government operation within the Congress's walls, that we own our budget. Today there are two secretaries, indeed great workers, I'm not trying to downplay them, but there's no adequate management and management of the budget against always accepting information from the Commission. I ask the minister: Is he not in agreement with me that a budgetary committee should now, when she has a second time over the matter, give particular attention to the fact that there will be building specific units in the council to further our role as well as to the management of the Commission? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u71	Madam President. I can agree with that at any point. A member of the council is concerned that at the council, the unity that deals specifically with the government's finances and the government is that we end this matter in the way set before us. In fact, I'm of the opinion that there needs to be a stronger unit in general on the economic issues, some kind of economic sector and public finances as a financial committee and after the events of the Economic and Business Committee, a department that collects information, and is for expert advice. There is, however, something that needs to be intensified beyond what is now. We have promoted the committee stage very much since earlier times, but I know that at the time, members of the Parliament themselves had to write a committee opinion, for example. Support from the Committee to members of their professions was only a shadow of what it is today. But we can do better, and that's what we need to do better, and that's what I'm saying from my experience as a body member for a whole term. It is clear to me that there is quite a difference in circumstances. I'm also going to use this opportunity to mention that although there are a lot of things in this bill that look forward to progress and will strengthen both, the authority to take care of its role, and the council in its own surveillance role, all of this will take some time. It won't be perfect since the first year, but it's still very much a step to progress, and if we put enough funding in place and loyalty to the council and to the execution of the authority needed to achieve all these goals, we will see a tremendous improvement in these matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u72	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Of course, a minister of positive authority is glad to hear that he agrees with me. We have the responsibility here. I speak this time as a minority senator, and although information is good and given with transparency, not all information is provided. Depending on who controls the way the information is being done, it is important for us who monitor the distribution of funds and make decisions on how to provide them with neutral parties to get the information we want. It's on this bill. There will be plenty of good information, but it is necessary to keep neutral parties at the hand that the members of the council can turn to. Maybe there's something we generals should generally be more unafraid to talk about, we should insist on having a much better tool and tools to do our part. It is as if we are ashamed to demand that we properly care for our work. When it comes to working on the budget bill, it is such for all noncommittee members that we are alone with the book, and that is especially true if we have a good friend who has good intuition that we can call him, and then, of course, through the council inquiry. [[The president calls.]] Still, we need a little bit of room for the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u73	Madam President. I agree with this, we may have to decide more closely how far we are going to go in this regard, but I'm just going to add right at the end, of course, that there is always a good partnership between the council and the council that's going to be tested at one time or another. I think I've done quite well. You will continue to be able to rely on good cooperation with the financial and economic agencies on information. This is true not only of information requested from the Assembly Hall but also of the Committee's work. It does not change the fact that the Council needs to have access to expertise in these important issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u74	V.E.G. President. To eliminate that misunderstanding, I make a sound. Secretary of finance to make a general agreement on this bill or its main points. Far from it, both within the council and outside, the community in which there are widespread and growing doubts about this bill. For my part, I want to express such doubts and criticism that I will present in a discussion of the matter, both at 1 Corinthians. and later if this bill can't be put on ice. I believe financial emphasis on the bill is definitely at the expense of social factors because, after all, we are running a community rather than a company. If I was running a business that I should be pleased with, I might be impressed with the emphasis given here, but as a member of society, I am not. According to this bill, financial council will be set up to monitor financial factors - but where is the Council of Health? We are not only confined to financial factors but also to various aspects of well - being. So it is in the health system and in the general welfare system. There's nowhere to find a rabble about such factors. I also refer to 7. The bill on government clearance to sliding. I think it's a great mistake to put such a thing into law as this is done and I'm not speaking for anything but that we're trying to keep the budget down, of course. Then there are shocks, and I believe that the scope given in this law, because space is not enough, and I think it is highly mistaken to establish in law as this is assumed to be the order of the World Bank that was a policy-makers and advisers. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u75	Madam President. There is a difference between general or absolute agreement. I didn't say so strongly that it was a complete solidarity, but I still want to say again that I've had a somewhat broad and general solidarity at the main objective of the bill. That's what I'm talking about. A senator makes it a special subject here, the financial policy, I'll just make it clear that it was my very special point. In fact, the World Bank didn't come to the attention of that matter until after I had requested such rules. I believe we have a lot to do with setting a comprehensive set of criteria for the results we want to achieve over a longer period of time. On the other hand, I agree with what's happened. A senator says that there must be some authority, some driver of the bill, to deal with a particular situation in which there is a statistical norm, the numberable rules, as they are sometimes said, are not applicable. I think it's a good thing to do in 1 0. The bill, but we may disagree on that. I mentioned here that there is much room, though, that the rules would not be violated to have as many as 55 billion angles. Then I'm looking at the situation as it is today in the government budget. It is a considerable limp, considerably high, and if you went to more angle than it would seem likely to be the conditions of 10 g. fulfilled, i.e. we are faced with the fact that the core executives of financial policy were smiling, or they were predictable of some kind of economic crisis or other situation that would be impossible to deal with by means of maintenance, income development, or any such. In order to improve the possibility of stability in Iceland, I believe we have to aim for a regular display of resources and typically a business venture in the outlands. [[The president calls.]] Although this business effort has not become a special issue, it is a reason why we can increase stability and reduce in Iceland's inflation and growth.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u76	V.E.G. President. I've always been a member of rural society and state business, and if it's changing, to aim for unscrupulous financial laws, and to set aside an absolute standard. What I'm criticizing is when such standards are set into law, that's what I have doubts about and will explain afterwards. We set such standards into the rural law at one time, turning them into farm partners' income, that commitments did not exceed 150% of the total income of the local community. Then came the day when some societies, e.g. Copapes, who wanted to attack social housing, are immediately evading themselves under the roof, although it might be a practical provision for a longer time to resort to such practices. It is also well - known for its own lack of privacy. I'm primarily protesting that such standards are set in national law. I raise doubts about it and will explain it in my later case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u77	Madam President. I'm glad to have a discussion on this point. I'm a very special person, and I don't agree with that. I believe the general policies that appear in Article 6. The bill, that public financial policies need to be based, for example, on sustainability, security, stability, stability, stability and transparency, is important standards and important to be able to refer to long-term policy topics but are not sufficient for my parts. To further support, it takes a number of rules, and I feel that the history of public finance in Iceland, and then I'm not going to mention some one period in excess of the other, that our collective history shows that loose rules are more likely to create people's space that they would not have had time and time. What I'm thinking about here primarily and above all else is what we can do in the council and in the implementation of public funds in the State and the countryside to further support our joint work with the labour market and the Secret Bank in increasing our stability in the country, which is the prerequisite for us to enjoy a lower level of interest, that we release ourselves from maintaining too high inflation, thus ensuring the population of the country's lower growth, e.g. Because of the housing bar that will exchange creation for social housing and for young people to cover their heads, the rent market, and all the work we're always discussing. If we have too loose rules and the council doesn't have clear rules to reference to the executives, I believe that experience shows that humans have all the leeway they get, and often and times they end up running elections. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u78	Did we? Did you?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u79	Madam President. It's like the highest. A minister crossed earlier began soon after the financial breakdown of preparation for this bill that we address here. In November 2011, a board of directors was appointed to review existing financial laws, and in this way two governments and four financial ministers have arrived at the work of the bill. Such a start should be a good preparation to make peace with the subject of the bill, since the whole bill is that its objective will not be realized unless it is a transnational agreement. I feel that this preparation is very valuable, and the whole process has been so that during both terms the financial committees have been allowed to monitor work at the bill. Members of the budget were included in the unique sections of the Governing Body. Both financial committees have gone to Sweden to examine the situation there. We go to models for what Sweden has done well, and we find that it is a good experience. I have high hopes that now that the bill has been given for the third time, we will be able to complete it and get a good discussion at the council. There is a major change that all of us need to be ready to make and follow. I would like to remind you, Madam President, that the objective of the law is to ensure the overall policy of government over a longer and shorter period of time, the careful preparation of the programmes and legislation concerning the economy of public bodies and the building and the handling of public funds, effective and practical government and activities, that public accounts are in accordance with established accounting regulations and guidelines and effective monitoring of the management and administration of public funds, property and rights. It is important to remind others of these goals. It is only natural that we take the rule to heart after a nation has gone through a financial crisis, as we did. I'd like to ask the president to call the highest power. Secretary of the economy and I want him to listen to my speech. [[I'm right here.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u80	I'm here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u81	That's good. I thought it was the highest. A minister would have jumped out of the hall, but it wasn't. It is also important to have those goals I listed earlier - I don't get tired of reminding you that it is the transpolitic reconciliation that ensures that your goals will succeed. We also need to agree that the baseline values below, sustainableness, caution, stability, firmness, and transparency, will tighten through all of the articles of the bill. There has been good agreement at the Committee on Work, but there has been no problem. A legal committee often has enough work to do, perhaps a special committee could have had to do with this bill. I'll just mention it here, but I don't recommend it because I think it's right for a financial committee to finish what she's started. Of course, we are left with a lot of knowledge and employment. V.E.G. Secretary of the budget was talking 7th. The bill and 1 0... That's where we talk about the financial rules. I want to do the same because I want to do the highest. This article has been emphasized by a minister. It is one of the few new articles that had not been discussed during the last term. Seven. three sections, and 1st Team says, by permission of the President: ▪ That the total balance of over five years should always be positive and annual down to 2.5% of domestic product. That means, like the highest. A minister crossed earlier, that when a plan is made for five years, there is a wealth of state plus, considering the overall period. We will be able to pay for the expenses of our government funds as well as interest expenditures during that entire five - year period. Even if we expect a five - year compromise, the summer must always be in the plus. I get it that way. The rule says we can go up to 55 billion minus, like the highest. A minister mentioned earlier, but not just needs to straighten it out in five years, but the average needs to be positive. We're talking about 110 billion. We'll close a hole in five years, which will be about 110 billion, if we go 55 billion in minus and we have to level it so that, on average, it will be plus five years. In 10. gr., as this has been reminded, it is said that if the core managers fail or predicted that they will be broken because of economic failures, temporary deceivation is permitted, or up to two years from conditions 7 gr. This law has been criticized, as noted earlier. These terms of the bill address two views, on the one hand, it may be very helpful to use tilting to minimise economic crisis that is inevitable at relatively regular intervals. Of course, it was very clear after a collapse, but it was also true of smaller traumas. In fact, after a collapse, the state's budget was so debt and tilted so much that the state could not place money in building roads and bridges or in other ways add to society that would have softened the impact of the economic collapse if possible. But the shock was of the magnitude of our life that we could no longer owe ourselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u82	There's been a crash.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u83	Hv. Chairman of the budget board, what? paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, reminds us that there was a crash that probably doesn't need to remind us of. The other is that political pressures in order to allow the State to spend time and energy regularly can cause the State's debt to become too much and too much room to deal with real disaster when it takes place less than ideal. I think, Madam President, both views have a point, and we need to take that discussion like the highest level. A minister encouraged here earlier. It has been a fairly good agreement on the aim of reaching out for the State's debts. It was a solidarity in the last term to halt the debt of a state fund because of a sliding exchange. Ever since 1990, or from a national age, the Icelandic State has been run with the goal of generally low debts. A wealth of money was virtually in debt when the net fell apart. After a collapse, there was also the agreement of all classes on the importance of developing a link to the state's tilt and becoming able to pay off debt and that the debt of the state as a share of GDP went down. While there are certainly differences in ways of doing so, the community has been content to do so in this way. For these reasons, there are conflicting views about setting financial rules, as agreed in Article 7. the bill, i.e. that the total balance of over five years is always positive and annual, with about 2.5% of land production, and that the rules can be publicized by the cut-off requirement in the welfare service, that if possible, the rules do not allow the state's funds enough to cope with these fluctuations through temporary rectangles, and that the rules do not solve the urgent problem of maintaining a general agreement to compromise the state's funds if possible due to economic standards. Madam President. We on the budget need to review these arguments better. I'd like to ask you here at 1st. whether it would be possible to consider making a 1st section 7. something greater in short term sliding, allowing more tilting for a bad year and allowing more time for balance, so that we would pursue good years and allow greater flexibility in a worse year's journey. I think we can have the discussion if it's possible to look at Article 10. on the subject, or we go through whether it is possible that the first law at the end of the day can cause some of us to go into the future. When a council ended in spring, there were some freedoms left in consideration. The budget board, preferably that we had not figured out exactly how the bill would be handled through the council, what happened at any given time, and how the Committees handled matters. I'm glad that this is the time to go through it, because it is very important that members of the council have their fingertips on what this change is, agree with it, and believe that this will lead to positive changes. I believe that the whole case is very positive. I've been a great supporter to them. I've had a lot of trouble. The budget sometimes tries to keep me from being too positive because that's when I'm afraid that more of the committee will be in trouble. I've mentioned 7th, though. right now that I think it's important that we deal with. We need to go through the record at the council and adjust to the bill the adjustments that the committee has considered and see how they deal with the whole objective.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u84	Madam President. I'm going to have a discussion about 7th paragraph. and slidings that have a measure of rigid limits in it. We can ask ourselves, " How would it have been for us to keep those rules when the banking system went right here in 2008? ' It was obvious then that the government fund went as a hand was waved into a very large exchange. Evidently, then, they had already set up budgets for the next year and financial programs that had to be assumed to be a significant degree of compromise. It was thus played since we had the State at the angle of the particular year, but it was really just part of the past because it had not been expected in the budgetary bill that the year would be tilted. The next time they arrived at this job, they had obviously assumed a angle, so played from 2009, 2010, 2011, and 2012, that is, four years; and in 2013, we were right to reach an average of this period, obviously in a very large pitch, and far from equalizing. But we could have removed the financial rule for two years over this period. That would have been enough for 2009, 2010, and 2011, then we could have set up a five - year plan for 2012, 2013, and then on these years we are living. I can't see any better than it would have been enough. Is it not healthy to insist on the European Commission, on the secretary of finance, that it comes here with a special document and a special discussion is taken, and the council votes for a five - year balance goal? [[The president calls.]] That's what I think. I don't feel that the project should be allowed to do that on its own. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u85	Madam President. When the economic breakdown of the magnitude of the bank crash came upon them, nothing is enough but a law of distress, but we are not, or it is at least my understanding of the bill that we are thinking it out of such events, that they are the rule. There would always be some rules taken if we had to cope with such great problems as we had to deal with the economic breakdown. I just want to talk about it. I see the dangers of Israel's independence as much in debt as we are today. That's why I don't make comments to sections 2 and 3, which are more about our debt, because I think it's only natural that a nation as forgiven as we are shown by the law on public finances how we're going to work on our debts. There may be another situation in the fluctuations that we will go through, when the balance of debt is better, be more flexible than it is given in unit 1. and 10th. I would like to start this discussion with the experts and that we try to answer right out and in a clear way this question: What problem are we solving with this rule? Have we disagreed about this and behaved in a way that allows us to run a big government fund? Is that rule necessary? Could it cause any harm to us in the future?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u86	Madam President. We are solving a problem that became very obvious in the leading of the crash when the policy of public finance did not support the demands of the Federal Bank, when the rural communities ran one financial policy, and the state fired another. We couldn't put both of them together. I think we're supposed to go as far as we can with these rules in verse 7. and we trust, but I agree. Of course, we need to listen to the advice we have learned about the length of the economic crisis. There are over a five - year period of strict rules, some rigid rules, so that every application has a degree of structure on the law, and the council has the basis for a total balance of over five years. To me, 7. Then very much the 10th paragraph. I believe that under conditions such as the collapse of the financial system in 2008, 10th paragraph was not created. Exactly us, exactly the typical situation that would activate 10 gr. which says, by permission of the President: If the core premises of financial policy are missing or predictable, it is due to economic failure, national year or other circumstances, which are impossible to deal with with with any available resources, the Minister shall propose to the General Council a resolution to the synopsis of the change of course as soon as possible. The situation created here in 2008, 2009, is typical of a situation where the Minister would arrive and say: Now, my opinion is that indecision is an overall equation of over five years, therefore, I want to activate the law. It would be permitted to withdraw temporarily or for up to two years from the conditions of Article 7. After the two years, it would be necessary to look for an overall balance over the next five years. [[The president calls.]] I feel like I've been successful in creating some strict rules, but at the same time I admit that there's room to be allowed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u87	Madam President. I completely agree that we can't go to the same economic government that was here before a collapse and that the Secret Bank's money policy goes one way and the state financial policy goes in another. We know exactly where it led us. I can't agree with what a minister says unless I'm missing the 7th paragraph. I don't think so, though. We've been through it even. with the World Bank Fund and Ministry and the Supreme Court. Minister to yourself. If we had had had those rules when we went into the deep valley with 200 billion angles, and in seven years we would have had to achieve it in a positive position, it would have been extremely difficult to do so by cuts and tax increases. It was hard to take this thing together in four years just to reach zero. In Unit 1.7. is expected to be in a positive position over the five years, i.e. not that we're in minus the first year, and then we reach zero in five years, but that we're in a positive position. This may be what is meant by the fact that there is some flexibility there. That's why I also say that the bill isn't designed to deal with these events, and we had to deal with the collapse, but smaller fluctuations.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u88	Madam President. This has been an interesting discussion here, and I thank you for the statement of the Supreme Court. Minister. To me, this issue has been summed up by careful planning for the budget and better planning, increased discipline and increased integration of public funds, perhaps primarily for the economy. I can say what I said in the fall, I think the bill over that whole good and that's one of the reasons many people have come to negotiate it, that's why it shines against the emphasis of a lot of people. That's the only way to get along about this big and big thing, if it's to be held as damp as it was before. But it is now as it is, there is not enough laws to make, there is a need for change of mind. A change of mind is needed for members of the council. There is a need for a change of mind in institutions, councils, and so forth. I don't know if everyone's prepared for it by themselves. Of course, we have made many laws and regulations, and we have not always applied them, and today we have not done well enough in this regard. Now, of course, there are some things that we don't understand, but I think we should be able to land this because of the number of people involved. A great deal of consultation with rural society is necessary at any given time because, of course, we have many major projects. The government intends to do more. We need to frame it better, we're not exactly in this regard, as per today's sector of revenue for rural society. As discussed here at 7th paragraph. There are, of course, other restrictions on local financial authority. Unquestionably, it is possible to refuse, and it is of course, to consider whether it is proper to do so in order to maintain stability in public finances. I'm not going anywhere because my rural society has done better than the state to many, many years, especially after we introduced the new government law. But, of course, there's always a lot of formal and careful management that reduces the risk of larceny, and as shown here, the baseline values are good. There is no objection to running societies and states with sustainable, carefulness, stability, firmness, and transparency. However, it is up to us to enforce it. In view of those values, we should continue to examine each article. I'd like to talk about it and do it as often as I can that this is a formalised economy. Of course, many people who do not understand what is meant by the word, that is also the way it is within a rural society, a word that has not completely established and has needed a considerable explanation, even though it is a device that affects the survival of all of us, men and women. We can use this tool in their litigators and look at them from where there is a balance when we divide money. The bill states that a financial program in the form of a Parliamentary arrangement will be submitted so that it will have more time to discuss the big lines. I agree with this, and I think it's good, and I just think that it's more likely to be careful if such a plan gets to lie over the summer and maybe it's more likely that we'll make a deal. I'm not necessarily optimistic, but I was making the last budget and watching the budget of the day. The official financial and financial agenda in itself is no more than a political policy objective, whether it is a tax policy, income or cost development, or whatever it is currently based on the fields. That's where the politics lie. We must not forget ourselves, thinking that this will solve everything. At times, I have felt that the language is like that, although most people are happy with how to hold it. There's been quite a talk here about 7th paragraph. and criteria for overall living which should be positive and annual, not more than 2.5% of domestic product. Such goals are elevated, beautiful, and lofty. The debt must not exceed 30% of GDP, i.e. All debts, apart from pension bonds, business debts, and away from funds and bottom accounts in banks. I think this is the challenge on the bill. However, there is also reason to wonder what situations would require that the United States have more rigid rules than other countries. It's like the highest. Secretary of finance earlier said it was about 55 billion, i.e. which we were allowed to owe ourselves. It is interesting to ask ourselves, " What do I need to pay down a year to reach my debt thresholds? ' I remember that number was 17 billion last time, except for interest costs, just like that, so they're gonna go off into the air. I can agree with that. paritaprevir My father, Jónasson, said here earlier. There is, of course, one thing to set up such laws and regulations, but there is also a way to avoid them. in private projects to avoid debt. That's why I say it, it doesn't solve everything making songs. It has been said a great deal of fluctuation and that this rule should serve that role and whether the space should be more or less, whether it can be applied in either direction or not. As it has been in the past, we have not succeeded, e.g. In the positive, so - called gathering funds, and having something to do when it comes to the impact, they always happen, but certainly in different ways. I think we can always agree on that, although we don't really want to do exactly the same way, to use the state in difficult times, whether by creating new jobs or building roads or whatever it is now, as we did during the last term, despite everything. It may only be the pressure from outside the community that makes sure to hold the politics then. But this, to gather to the gray years so that there can be a fight against financial expansion and balance, sounds like one of the big issues in this. It'll be in after. It wasn't in the first motions during the last term and it was the highest. A minister earlier said that it was his interest to get it into this bill. I'm just going to talk to you about the financial council. I feel that there could be an imbalance if the council, in greater measure, decided that only the greater part will be involved. It is simply said that the Council nominates two men, but it does not say how, how the proposals can be applied. It's a fitting word. We talked about it a lot on a budget board. We have a new proposal that the Minister decided not to use. I thought it was important to have financial counsel that would not be political or at least as little political order as possible. I think there would have been a lot more weight, a lot more credible in the community than doing it the way it's put down here. OECD made a report on financial schemes in six countries, what challenges financial schemes would face regarding independence so that governments cannot ignore the comments of the Council. If financial advice is to act as a discipline and to make real comments, it must be totally independent and afraid to criticize the government if necessary. On page 18. Thirty-four and 35 are discussed on financial authority, where a minister is expected to define issues and issues, according to agreement with a minister in the opinions of a judicial committee. Part of the purpose is that those who play this role should keep expenses within the budget and be given additional resources to manage the expenses within a number of cases, and therefore to be entrusted with increased responsibilities. This is also part of what we've been discussing, i.e. that ministers, as stated here, receive additional permission to manage expenses within their classes. One thing that we members of the Parliament are about to face is how powerfully we are to give up. Of course, as shown in III. Chapters are the law and the jurisdiction of the Council, and we are told that we need to be convinced that this will fulfill the regulations of the Constitution, but the survival of the General Assembly changes considerably. We may have more plans or a look at the overall picture, but it's less abdicating the decision of individual funds. It's both pros and cons, but I'm worried that the senators and particularly the government'll be a little unarmed. So it was a pleasure to hear the grandest of all. A minister agrees with what was discussed here that there would be a need to strengthen the office of finance at the council, and if that is to be concluded, it may even have to be an almost new bill, at any distance the understanding of some of the financial committee, that it may be necessary if necessary, not just a proposal for a certain topic. We need to be careful about whether this will go governmently and how far to go. I don't think it's quite possible with the expeditor of the fund. Of course, there we are talking about the publication under the topic areas, not a legal explanation. I'm not quite happy with it, and I don't feel like I've got confirmation that it's okay. There was speculation about the Assembly Hall. We've discussed quite a few things with the Ministry to get a part of the budget so that we can go through how these changes will be conducted. Sounds like it's being handled well. I think it's the next step, if we're going to get some conviction and a bigger solidarity, we have to do it. My time is running out, but I want to name 20. ...re..aboutprogrammative policies. It says that special emphasis should be placed on setting the quality and service objectives of the person who provides funds and how to achieve goals, and that needs to be explained to the level of success. It's part of policy. But if all of this works together within the Ministry and in the seminaries, and we general members of Congress don't have much to do with this, if I understand this correctly, it is even more important that this financial office be more powerful. Although we have, as indicated here, two extremely effective writers, this is not enough for an entire government opposition. I also know that we can't both skip and hold. Me and the senators continue to fight for our affairs, whether in the terms or the litigations or whatever they are now. But what we've been able to do so far, if we want to make extra donations to an institution or something else, we can't do anymore. We can only present it in speech, we can certainly make adjustments in the field or in the seminary, and we must trust that the efforts of the member of the body will be violated or proposed. It may well be that keeping it that way does not promote good discipline, since there is, in fact, an ever - increasing transfer of it. Secretary of finance is to inform the budget on the state and development of financial programmes and other ministers. That has been done in many respects without the law, but it is wise to bring it into law. I wonder if a minister of finance feels that he will not get adequate plans from councilors, other advisers, whether he has any alternative but to say that this will not work, if it needs to be more clear. This is one of the ideas presented at work on a financial committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u89	A respectable president. I'd like to ask you what. A senator a little more than one of the first things she said involved a change of mind. She mentioned, not that it would require merely a routine change of order in her view, but a change of mind. I'm so interested in it because I've often felt that after the economy has only taken over, we're back with an independent party and a forward party, and all that in the government, the same old mental attitude that was here before a collapse. I feel a lot about this in the community, apart from the fact that people are still angry and they know there's no learning, there's something missing in our mind about how we view economics in our small country for a long time. That's the kind of question I was about to ask myself. A senator can explain further what she meant by change of mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u90	Mr. President. We have first assumed that we did things in a certain way up until now. Senators, members of the Ministry, and others have worked according to certain traditions for an extraordinary long time. Based on the way this is going to work, the fixation will be much greater than before and the maintenance. Maybe that's what I mean by change of mind and maybe is part of what I said before that you can't have a direct influence on things as it has been. They're hiding this into the executives' hands, into the lawsuits, more into the Ministry. If it is not to be overthrown so that we lose control, with the members of Congress, then the Ministry, the government, the institutions, has to get more of our ideas, i.e. that we feel it's not completely out of our hands. The change in thinking is also in the administration, this administrative change, to do things differently than has been. When we come to vote, we don't vote for a special proposal, as this was indicated. There's a motion to make for a whole group of lawsuits. We don't take one high school and really talk about it, but we take all the high school in one package and not even that, but the whole school system. I think such a change needs to be considered a little more.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u91	Mr. President. I come up here to make some comments to this case in the 1st. this fall council. First, I'd like to say that already the highest. Superintendent, chief. Minister, at the beginning of his earlier hearing, I believe that there may be some way of agreeing on the general objective of the law, which is, of course, to ensure a good government of public finance, responsible for economic management, and it is important to consider long-term government policies. I think that this aim is a good stand at the council, that there have been some, the highest. Ministers and ministers. Parliaments from different categories. I think that is why it is especially important that we discuss these matters here so that we can reach the best level of solidarity. There are a few things, however, that I find reasons to raise questions or comment, hoping that they will be examined in the council's treatment. As we have seen, this issue changed from being revised in financing to being a new global financial system based on long - term thinking. There are some things I would like to mention in this regard. First, there is the idea of changing the procedure at the council, moving more on to what we can call frame law, not dealing with funding to individual institutions or teams, so that, for example, we are not, as shown in the case of the individual institutions. paritaprevir The campers of Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, to deal with budgetary funds for a single high school, but with general policy-making, financial rights to the seminary, to the high school seminary, to study the seminary, or whatever we think of it. However, there are questions that I find important to answer. Of course, it is clear that there is a demand for it. Congress has a very good perspective on how the funds exchange between individual institutions. It is discussed in a follow-up and can be changed. I still feel that questions remain about the exact value of this copy will apply within the council and how to make changes in it, and whether the danger is not that we're going to get back out of the framework and everything is going to be about writing and financing to individual institutions, so you're going to say it now. I feel that it is important for us to consider how we support the council and whether it has been discussed within a few moments. The legal committee at the last assembly was to treat people as they envisioned the discussion of these unique groups. It is true that it has often been a factor in the budget here that the discussion has become a matter of very small amounts, not of long - term vision, but of very small amounts of money. That's why I think it's very important here, that plans are being made for a long time, where the political lines are laid. I think what needs to be changed is, like it just happened. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir bell, that there's a lot more political discussion, because that's when we put the lines in the way we want to set priorities for the government. For example, do we feel that it is important to add money to research and innovation? I think the discussion of the long-term strategy needs to be more important in the council's activities so that we can work out the focus. That's right. I think that's what we're supposed to be trying to do together. At the same time, I reiterate that the transparency needs to be a lot of attention to how the funds exchange into institutions. It will create work. More important, it will create work for us as we apply it, for example, to provide information on how the funds are distributed. This needs a lot of surveillance. It will also create work inside the Council, and I agree with them. Congress members who have been talking about an increase in the role of the Generals. I think it is important that we look at the fact that the Council is being given the needed support in order to fulfill its role. There is no secret that it is not well prepared for the Council to fulfill its role today. This is true of financial matters. It has to do with other matters, for instance, when there is going to be a budget estimate on markets, non-priced Senate guidelines, and so on. All of this needs to be added to the council. I think that if we are going to discuss this matter and develop some changes in how we are long - term government priorities, there is no question that the Council needs much more support to fulfill its role. I think it needs to be recognized, and the discussion about this bill needs to be followed that we set some goals in this regard. Then there are the other big issues that I would like to bring up, or there are two other subjects that I would like to raise. It's 7. which is the condition of financial policy and financial programmes. There is something that has been discussed and criticized, e.g. of economists like Þórólfur Matthíasson who don't think it's wise. Of course, we must wonder, for example, whether a five - year frame, since the total balance of over five - year periods should always be positive and patient always below 2.5% of land production, is not quite narrow, and what should be done in case of trauma. Will this decommissioning of the law really be necessary? Will be inclined to go some bypass routes as we know about the Maastricht conditions set for good purposes, i.e. to ensure a measure of economic stability in the European Union? We know it's been a little bygones. The plan is, and it's the other thing I'd like to mention, that financial control has taken into account that this is a practical plan and all that is related to it. Matthíasson Matthiasson, above professor, has criticized why this has not been in developing a national interest organization that has this role as independent independent, regardless of an institution that provides considerable force for a state to live up to its long - term plans. I think it was important that we answer the questions at council whether we believe these goals are practical, whether we see the circumstances - because many of us here were in those circumstances not very long ago that everything went down and was set as a law of distress - since these laws would be replaced in some way or exactly how we would deal with them. Although the goals are good, I think it is a perfectly valid question raised by the economic professor, whether it is sufficient to set such goals ahead of schedule and to have effective devices, national or financial resources - I'm not going to evaluate whether financial advice can meet that role - let's get some kind of effort to monitor every year's budget and whether we're putting down reasonable plans to achieve the stability that I think is the goal of which we all agree on. It has also been stated that the State's scope is being limited at any given time to practice what is sometimes called an Italian economy, i.e. bring an injection through the state, when economic pressures are severe, to stimulate the economy. Let us not forget, too, that 2.5% of these are substantial sums of money. Let us see that even though these are low percentages, they are considerable sums of money. I think it's important to review whether we feel that this 2.5% space is sufficient or if we think time is sufficient, i.e. A five-year period. I'm not going to extend this discussion in particular. I think these are the big questions that we're facing in the bill. So I draw them together, first of all, is how we're going to achieve it and what support the General will be required to take on additional role. I think it's important that we discuss it together with this bill, so that if the law doesn't sit in the council for the next five years, we're not complaining about the need for additional support to carry out our legal role. I think it's important. Second, that is the conditions of Step 7. and whether we think they're too controlling based on the experience we've had here. I would have thought it would be good to have it up in this discussion. Maybe the highest. Ministers tell us, if we go back 30 years in time in Icelandic economic history, whether we have lived up to the goals set there. Then I'm not only talking about unusual conditions like it was in 2008 but looking further into history. Have we been living up to our goals at some point, or is it true that we have not? No doubt it is possible for the Ministry to take these things together. I think it would be very interesting for the senators to see the debt ratio, the total debt, and the balance, so we can evaluate what it takes to achieve the objectives laid down here. Then there is the third point that is the financial Council, which is suggested to assess financial policies and financial planning. Do we follow the values shown in these laws? I wondered, asking the same question as the economic professor: Is it reasonable that we look at an independent institution, a national interest organization that plays this role, which is more advanced in the language, than if we set our goals in this very clear direction? First and foremost, I want to have a topic discussion about how to get the best of the goal together, which I suspect most people agree on, but I think it's important that we also realize that we want to have a certain amount of space, I mentioned earlier as an example for injections when bad ends, that the public can invest when a professional investment is down. How will we be sure that this will be possible? Is this possible from the guidelines presented here? To understand this, we need historical evidence. So I'm ordering that we have a checkup. The budget, that history will be taken back and examined in time so that we can see if we have lived up to the standards, what changes we need to look forward to, whether there is a basis for reviewing them from the past. Mr. President. I don't even have that case in 1st. but I think it's important that we try immediately to bring up what we believe needs further thought.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u92	Mr. President. I just want to take a hint. Senator on 7th. and the potential effect of legalizing these rules. I think it means a lot to me. I'm celebrating all the discussions on these matters. On the other hand, I think it's about whether it's sufficient to have such a general statement about some primary objective, using terms such as sustainability and caution and transparency and so on, or whether we are ready to take the step of setting the prime goal of the Adventist that can be found in Article 10. I think it's good for us here at the council to wonder if we can do this, especially since the European Union, where people have agreed to use a single currency, people have gone so far, not just to adopt rules that are largely comparable to those, i.e. that if a person fails to reach these goals, he is subject to the burden of having only a limited angle and working down debt when it reaches a limit. We are here discussing whether we can set for ourselves certain rules of discipline with a deviation so that, when we're making our laws, we have them as a guide, as well as in the relationship between the council and the Commission. But others have not only done this, they have provided a part of their sovereignty to the common institutions, and they have undergone their discipline, where the European Union can hit and actually fine the Member States. This has been done by another council. They have undergone international discipline. But we are here wondering if we are willing to impose such discipline on ourselves without handing over any part of the sovereignty. I'd like to keep this in mind for a moment in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u93	Mr. President. This is true, but there is also the possibility that Maastricht's conditions have been highly critical, on the one hand, that they have been overlooked, men have found ways; we can name Greece as an example of exactly that. But they have also been strongly criticized by those who promote deeper fusion in the European Union for not being sufficient to live up to a common economic policy; that it needs to go further, they need to adopt a common fiscal policy, a common tax policy. For example, I was reading an article by William Buiter economics, which said exactly this: These conditions are not sufficient; they need to be revised. Of course, it is a different matter, in a physical way, that nations should set their own standards. I agree with the highest. Minister on that. It is a question that we need to ask ourselves: " Do I not rely on someone to set conditions for us? But let us also be aware that Maastricht's conditions certainly have her faults, and they're criticized from both sides. They are criticized by those who criticize too much fusion in Europe, for having proved to be a tool that is primarily superficial and does not function as it should. They have also been criticized by those who want more fusion for being just a tool that works on the surface, and they need to set more rigid rules of conformity. This may be another subject of interest. As we examine the European Union, a lot of them have failed to meet the Maastricht criteria or have found any other way around. The big question is, Do we really believe that we are realistic in reaching the criteria proposed on the highest bill? Minister, if we look at our economy and our economy. Of course, I'm not supposed to respond to the highest. Minister, under this team, I think maybe it's what's interesting for us if we're looking for a long time how realistic we think we're going to reach the goals set out there. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u94	Mr. President. When the European Union saw that the Maastricht criteria did not improve, they were being sharpened by the Treaty on stability, coordination and control of the economy and the currency union. It is true that this has been criticized. But, fortunately, that discussion is connected to a large part of the common coin we are, I say, not to the party at this point. I'm just saying this as a sign of how far individual nations are ready to go in order to achieve the goal of stability and healthy management with the coin that the nation is going to have. Here we have the crown. I think we need to do better. What has been lacking is more coordination of public funds, i.e. The government's terms, with what's going on at the state level. We're trying to get around it here. We are trying to ensure that by means of a clear number of goals, the Parliament will be able to refer to them when the European Commission is going to make room for itself or create a new set of conveniences with some general purpose; it may be okay, although the calculations may say something else. I'm just saying, there's a much better way to keep such a discussion than a general declaration. I believe the professors are what they are. A senator referred to and had doubts as to these numbered goals in 7. ......, had absolutely no regard for what is stated in Article 10. It provides the scope that obviously needs to be there. So let us also realize that the same law will apply here in the EU and that it has been established in the implementation of the Maastricht condition and the later regulations. After all, when people break those rules, in themselves nothing happens. [[The president calls.]] This will ultimately be about the will of the council and the conduct of the council with the Commission to achieve this. [[The president calls.]] Nobody goes to jail if the rules are broken. It's about creating common rules, common guidelines, and maintaining them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u95	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister on the counter. He mentioned an important point that sometimes when we are discussing the construction of the financial system and the economy, we speak as if we are dealing with some kind of physical laws, of course, but this is human activity and human will behind it, and of course, it is the Council's way of managing the goals that are set at any given time. That's a very important thing to do. Minister's coming in here. He's pointing to 1 0... which discuss fundamental failures, perhaps referring to what I was referring to earlier when the 2008 collapse occurred, that it is permitted to temporarily depart for up to two years from the conditions of the 7th sector. Probably, though, we would not have made use of that delay, but, of course, it is, like the highest. Minister and I agree, the work of men. We're supposed to look at it like that. I think it's important to examine the story. We know it's a fluctuary in the Icelandic economy and in Icelandic government. Let us just look at the expansion that took place here in 2007. She was pretty big and big and nobody knows exactly what she was supposed to be doing. I think it's fine if we talk about these goals. I think it's important, too, that we have this historical perspective so that we can better figure out what this has looked like and try it on to these goals. I think it would be good for this discussion, perhaps because I'm an amateur of history, to look into history, I think it's unequivocally possible to learn from history, and I think it's important when we're setting ourselves a goal for the future that we're also looking back in time and able to evaluate it, not just out of peculiar circumstances like here in the past few years, we can say, but further back in time. I also think it is important to take this discussion into account the role of the financial council. [[The president calls.]] I want to reiterate that I think it is important that we discuss only what its role becomes exactly and if it has, because it is just a three-man scheme, Mr. President, a basis for the scope of the role needed here. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u96	A respectable president. Hv. A senator might as well have continued his answer for me. That's exactly what I'd like to ask you about 6. which defines the baseline financial policy of financial programmes. It includes five factors; sustainability, caution, stability, fixation and transparency. I think there's something missing in the sixth. I'd like a guess. It's for a senator. But 1 0... The bill is about a review of financial policy, which in short, is that if everything goes down, there's a financial council to see if there's any way that we can sort it out, if I get it right. On the other hand, I feel out of place, at least I think it might be appropriate, considering that the Icelandic economy is fragile, having some sort of classic plan to deal with the setbacks. Here's a 10. clearly set to react if and when things go wrong. But I feel that there is something missing that is at all times, even when it's difficult, someone doing a job that aims to assume that something is going wrong and then can respond to it. I wondered, " What do I think? ' In view of the fact that there was a lot of money in this room and so was the same in the last term. I'd like to ask you what. A senator would consider it realistic to predict any danger in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u97	Mr. President. I don't think any mistakes should be of particular value when discussing the values we're going to be guided in economic and government matters, they don't have a special value. What I'm most concerned about, and in human language: When I look at the values that are being set out, this measured value, I think it's important that we look at the story, we look at how practical we really value it, and I ask, What space we really have for our progress in society? I quote just what has been discussed in the community about deaf people who need to be interpreted and brought to court, I quote people who are in judicial cases to get drugs and other things, and the discussion that we always have; whether we weigh money or other laws. By setting this somewhat clear frame, I wondered if it is too narrow to look at progress. I'm shooting, are we really getting into a situation? Money is important, stability is important, but it is also important that we continue to develop society. Of course, that may cost money at times. That's not why I'm saying that people spend money like sometimes. I'll be the first to say it here, and sometimes a lot of money addiction has taken on a variety of projects, many of whom are worthy and good. But I only look at it when we see, for example, great advances in medical science that cost money, just one example, changes in rights. For example, if we adopt the constitution that came from the Council of Government, we will have a higher privilege than we have in the current constitution. For example, how will we respond? It's just a matter of time. For example, it calls on the right to the best possible health - care option. [[The president calls.]] This may be what I think we need to keep in mind as we consider how practical our goals are. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u98	A respectable president. I didn't want to suggest that part of a baseline financial policy was a failure, much rather, that we assumed that it would be in order to have a degree of custody of budgeting and making financial policies and financial plans. I've felt a little bit right now when the economy is taking over and I can do all the things that couldn't be done before, that men don't lose everything in wanting to improve and strengthen something I completely agree on. A senator needs to be done. We must always do so, even when there is a bad one. I agree with what. That's what a senator does. I still feel that we do not realize that sooner or later something will go wrong. Foreign markets are breaking down. Locking lines are closing. I wonder what. A senator agrees with me that it is too late to think about it when the shock strikes. When we build houses, we expect earthquakes, we don't try to stop them. We can try to stop economic setbacks, at least some of them, but I don't feel that we're going to build our economy and our budget so that we can assume that something will go wrong. But it's work that I would have thought would have to happen before things go wrong. I wonder what. A senator will agree with me on that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u99	Mr. President. Yes and no in that sense to think that the goal of the bill is to prevent setbacks, to try to achieve a measure of stability in the economy and coordinated plans, joint planning of state and rural society. Of course, all of this has given us a preemptive value if we look to economic setbacks. But if a whole financial system breaks down in a tiny country, there is nothing more to do than take care of emergency. It may be said, to witness to the fall of 2008, that it would likely have been difficult to write the events in advance, although it would be very good to do so, yet it was done at a considerable speed, for example, so I think the main issue is really to be prepared. But how can this be written in some way into law? I can't figure that out. But I wondered. A senator rolls it up, and now I'm a little thinking aloud, whether there's a strong commission from the one called a financial council. Some have wanted to mention national interests in this context, i.e. A stronger hold from an independent agency when it comes to financial and economic and economic administration of the State, whether it is needed. So it's just a question I think we should weigh. It is clear, however, that the goal of the bill is to be some kind of prevention of such setbacks.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u100	Mr. President. This has been the most excellent discussion of this subject, and it certainly deserves to be discussed. It can be called in larger and more important matters, which we will discuss in general at a Synod when there is a common set of public finances, both state and community. Here, there's something about learning from history, and one of the things I think are fine with this bill, the report is what I've been reading now and that I had time to read for some pleasure. In this regard, the shift is well traced, and this is associated with the milestones of 1997's budget. I'm not going to object that it was a major turning point from the situation that preceded it when the law on this was very fragile and there was no total law against it. But let us also remember that when men started to drive out of the year 2002, they were not very old, but they were not enough, from 1997, with serious consequences. As far as I'm concerned with the reasoning here, it's interesting. If you are evicted, see the box "What Is It All About? " 23 and further in the section on the part of government funds in the economic environment, he is quite educational. Now I'm not a economist, of course, I'm just a weak geologist and a pedaygoro and a former truck driver, but considering what I've done by these matters, I would say that there was a very strong evidence that men might have written quite a palace under the old Keynes that very long chapter. For example, it is said that, usually by permission of the president, because of its size and importance, the government should bear in mind the economic impact of its activities when making decisions in terms of financial matters. This means that the government will tear sails when the economy is expanding but that the sails will run low when the economy is low. Now who could have written this? In many places it is also historically noted that the money policy, of course, has an impact and is intended to bite on finding the balance and, if all of this works together, the demand of the loan system, and the media, it can be done by its own decisions by the zebra. But in the importance of public financial policy and money policy contributing to the aim of maintaining prices, not to be overemphasized, i.e. on this so-called "sposalicylic acid oral solution'. This can primarily prevent harmful inconsistencies with economic management. I agree with what the minister of finance here referred to as one of our weaknesses was that people did not look at the entire public financial situation. When it comes to the rural or rural level, we have less than one third of the public activities, it's a natural hole in the order if they're in something completely different than the state, I don't talk about it in three directions. The late bank is trying one, the State one, and the third, or whatever. I believe that new financial policies have already been achieved for the communities, but these are actually finishing the job by reaching out for the whole thing. Then, in my opinion, I am very honest about how misconstrued Iceland and I have really been in these matters. Then, for example, some of the leading groups that have long been in charge in Iceland, or half of the Republic's time, or two thirds of it, must look at themselves. It's not a very pretty description, topv. Secretary of finance, but I think it's true. For example, it says by permission of a president: In the United States, public funds have not been properly used as a swinging economy, and there are even examples that public financial policy has just had an encouraging effect, in the least cases. - Yeah, it doesn't have to go far back. More than that, it says: If economic management measures in terms of money and money are not coordinated, pressure at pay level and high interest levels that push down an investment will be induced. The effect is half worse in a small open economy, where growth may lead to higher growths that weaken the competitive position of exporting along with the induction of import. Thus, the focal effect reduces the growth rate of the economy over a period of time, causing the decline to inevitably become much deeper as an investment takes a considerable amount of time to re-established. At best, a government policy inconsistencies can lead to a more efficient growth control by the late bat to keep the economy in balance. Large growths, as it is known, are a source of considerable growth in businesses because of uncertainty that works as an inhibitor of investments. At worst, a heartless government policy can prevent the sheik from achieving its price targets, resulting in a high rate of growth and high inflation, just as has been true in our area. So says at the end of this sentence, by permission of the president: It is evident that national financial policy in this country has for many years been out of rhythm both in the pace of the economy and in the actions of the Federal Bank. That's a lot to say. It is said plainly that the national fiscal policy has been out of rhythm for years, both in the course of the economy and in the actions of the Federal Bank. I do not read out of this discussion about the time from time to time with a collapse but, above all, the years before and far back again and agree with those words. Then I'm going to be 7th. with this entrance because it counts here. This presented a fine discussion on whether we should legalize a set of goals, frames, or whether we should be content to work according to such declared goals and developed policies and to keep them in place, even to independent parties. Here we have come very close to the core of the matter and are all about ourselves, including our own experience. I want to say about my attitude toward the goals of 7th paragraph. that the economist in me, though no one compares with the previously observed, and the little I know about this would make me reluctant to accept such a rigid frame because I doubt that the period in which this is reserved and the percentage that is set in it would be five years, 2.5% in a palace, standing below that which is then stated in the bill's report on the importance of using public finances to smooth the pace. It is very narrow to do so if the frame is stiff and tied to law. We can think of only one example if the state's now in a really good position, he's in debt and even has money. Then, because of internal or external reasons, or a combination of these two, a time of trouble in the economy, slowness, and fear of disaster, and everything. Let's just say that it was a problem, a poor catch, and a price on export products, and on our major business markets, and a lot of weight for our feet. But government funds are very good. What could humans do to protect society and get things going? They could use a treasure and drive it with a tilt for some year. They could even lower taxes in order to stimulate the economy, to go on if they had faith in such devices, or simply to attack in investments, in ◯St down the economy, and in government funds could afford it. But space is very narrow on the 7th floor. On the other hand, the statesman inside me who has been watching this for some 35 years will likely need such a legal framework because we have had such a bad time of self - discipline. We may need to keep ourselves under the laws we are bound by so that at least we need to work at getting outside of him. Still, I think this is one of the most difficult things about landing this case. I am pleased with this bill and the work behind it. But I believe 7. and 10th par. need to examine and examine together. V.E.G. Secretary of the budget points to 1 0... In this and that's right, she's some kind of a vent. You can get out of that frame. But under what circumstances? That's what the Bible says in 10. ... withauthority of the President's permission: If the core institutions of financial policy are missing or predictable, they will be broken by economic failures, national or other circumstances... This is fore majeure. The application of this law has to take a step in order for humans to be justified. I think it's too narrow. I'd be more comfortable with 7th degree. Just like it's still the same if it's 1 0. spaced out so that it would not necessarily have to have become some major natural disaster or human disaster but would be a very strong economic ground that would have developed to be just a rational, social, and economic wisdom that a financial minister would come in on the basis of Article 10. and say: Now I suggest that we get out of this a little bit of this for a while, grow up, or clear the space we have, let's use seven years, not five years to counteract the economy, etc. At the same time, the application of the law must not be limited to some devastating disaster. This, however, can be a better look at what is happening. Committee. I'd like to ask you about 11. Article 8 of the Treaty of the United States of America and the United States of America, which is of utmost importance. Is it being proclaimed to go further in establishing the annual negotiations between state and rural society? It speaks of a minister developing financial programmes seeking an agreement with the European Union for them before a plan is submitted to the General Assembly, which includes the European Union. will discuss the objective and survival of the rural communities and, as stated in the 3rd listed on the funding of public service and the income of rural society. Is the thought behind this article going toward or all the way into the dance arrangement, that man really negotiates this relationship every year? There was a fine discussion here outside the program on this today that I was watching. Then, of course, I'd like to congratulate the current financial minister on what he has in store while he's in that office, because the Danish minister of finance will do nothing more in June but have such negotiations with the local community. That's how they did it. They negotiate these financial relationships every year. There's a lot of talk between a state, a charge, or a business partner. It matters to me because there has been one of the offenders. For example, society's relations with the State until collapse and cold greetings were generally received at the annual meetings that they know they attended. I'd like to make the financial Council very brief about the subject. As soon as it's important and I'm not resisting such advice, I don't know if it's so narrowly packed by just three men, of which two are nominated for three years at the same time, and then the Chairman for five years. I would have wondered if I had this five-man advice or something, and I would have put two at the beginning of the year to three, two to four or five, and the Chairman for some X year. The comparison was always determined by someone who had been there for a few years and others who were coming in. It is very important to remain independent, to keep firm in it, and to have some extension of the operation. I don't think it's good that two of the three stewards fall out after maybe three years, and new two come in because the law also says that no one can sit more than twice in a row that's good in itself, it's not supposed to be a permanent bond. There are other things I would like to mention, such as long-term estimate of expenses in 33 C.E. Brew, like the 9th parr. about the prospect and development of long-term events that I celebrate and definitely have a part in this bill. In this regard, I remind you of a proposal for action to prepare the long term national interest strategy. I believe that this case should be resolved by agreeing that part of this long - term vision is such a long - term high national interest plan. It is not enough to point out just that you should contribute once every three years something where there is only community, employment and environmental factors and demographic factors. By 33rd. the Ministry is to oversee such strategy in its own schemes, but no one should gather all of this and look further ahead and take more variables like resources, strengths, and weaknesses of the country, etc. I would like to have men take a look at it while they're taking it further by choosing to have such a careful plan. It discusses the tenure policy in 44 C.E. and there I feel a little confused after reading the last paragraph on how to stand in the future by the minister of governments and counsel. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There is no mention there of the selection committees or other such persons and asks the highest. Minister: Isn't it within the picture just to see that some such approved prose is being performed? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u101	Mr. President. The right to take action. A senator comes in here and wants to thank you for this discussion on the interaction between chapters 7 and 10. I understand people's best thinking about this, and there's the pros and cons at going this far. I feel that way, like the politician in the head. A senator he described earlier shows that we benefit from making such rules. I just refer to the basic differences that governments can refer to a general rule only to a change course and say: Well, we appreciate this time that it only needs to change the emphasis for the long term, and we just sit there, and then we have a legal process for such a decision, that is, in law, if one is going to change the course, and if one feels that such circumstances have just need to be fixed on a document, bring it here at the council, take an independent discussion, and receive the majority of the terms of Congress on whether there are any such circumstances that it is in order to turn it away from financial order. I don't mean 10 g's. which just as much fore majeure as that. A senator and allow me to direct them even. in the report that speaks of serious problems in job activities. This does not necessarily have to be a complete premise. With regard to communication and communication between the state and the local community, there is no such rigid consultation. A senator refers to Denmark. Among other things, it is assumed that there is a possibility that you will not agree. But they're walking into new areas there, and it took quite a while to shape these laws to cooperate with the communities. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I think it's perfectly clear, though, that men are bonding strings.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u102	Mr. President. A further consideration of regulations 10 may be needed. and legal data with her and her interaction with Article 7. makes a little more space than will be determined by reading the bill text alone. He's pointing pretty hard at the idea that there's a complete collapse, and actually talking about natural disasters or what it is now. But there is something that humans could work with. Is it not worth a little effort to draw up a little explanation about this under what circumstances and for what purpose, for what purpose, would it not be reasonable to believe that the Minister can come to the council with proposals to apply these regulations? I couldn't agree more than that. Ministers on the fact that, of course, it's a much more serious procedure than that the government can do on a good day a year before elections decide that now it's all right to give and spry and have a good day and that no one is coming tomorrow. I don't mind it being all in this kind of frame. I don't agree that if they're going to deviate from the plans and schedules that have been followed by events, they'll have to come to the council and explain if they're to be passed on by the council before and under law. It's about the state and community and when it's a test of seven. Gr., we're talking about a common financial framework. The rural communities are part of this strip. They'll have to go in for a drink if they're going to reach an average of five years of lack and never go below 2.5%. What will the local community say to the minister of finance at a difficult time when he arrives, saying, "Now you have to do it. Now you have to do this. Then they'll say, "We can't unless the Kingdom helps us. " [[The president calls.]] This will move on to annual negotiations, I think. It is not difficult to understand that when rural society is thus deprived of total financial independence, it is not difficult to understand. A minister himself was saying about the European Union in the past. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u103	Mr. President. This law, which is new on communication with the local government, may be easier to put into words than to perform so that everyone will agree on exactly how this project should be done. What I'm trying to say is that this is going to get done. It will be the main thing that recognizes that it may be difficult to achieve complete solidarity, but the vital step has been reached by the support of the level of government on this requirement that men have created the scene for this discussion. It has been developed in this bill text that this consultation should take place. It involves discussing the circumstances in the economy and what steps must be taken to reach the goals that humans would agree to be desirable. Exactly how this happens may become a subject of conflict, and it may be right behind you. A senator that in advance is likely to say: If this is a requirement, further assistance will be needed. But maybe it's just fine, then it's going to come out, and it'll even be the cause of a discussion here. We may have taken a few samples of such discussions earlier today, as we were discussing the division between the state and the community. I still think that although this may be a bit of a complicated project, we've got a pretty good deal on it. Besides, I'm not gonna drag a feather over it that it's important to be 7 and 10. Together, the Committee will have very careful treatment and the work of the budget committee will be clear. I just don't want anything about the fact that something really needs to change to get activated 10. See, it must be that way, or they will take it for an occasion. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u104	Mr. President. True, we must now have some faith in ourselves and in those who accept the cylinder. I have hoped that something has learned from this in Iceland and will become generally more careful and more responsible in its progress, although I do not sometimes deny that I feel troubled at all these days, sweating a little over the fact that we're just beginning to relax again as I watch what a financial minister is available in the commercial institutions of the state. But that's another story. Regarding rural society, it should be noted that, of course, 2011 was a prelude to the financial rules laid down by law. Since their communities are in a different position because they are already bound by them, it may not be so much a sacrifice on their financial independence to enter this frame as part of the official body. It's very important, I agree completely that we have to examine the public as a whole and, actually, I think we're too busy making a big difference between where we're taking our money. They're all in the interest of society, and they're like I sayin' about a third of them. I also think it's a little bit off the wrong foot, to be indelibly preoccupied with the so-called distant independence of the local community, some of which are it, or group leaders, when you realize that it's the State, that's the law that sets the box, puts the law on income and exchange, and that we're just talking about the government in Iceland. In other words, I have come to believe that the dance arrangement or something very close to it may be the wisest, that people just sit together every year and review how we best play cards in behalf of the community and spread income and settle the burden between state and society so that it all works out as well. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u105	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for an informative and interesting speech. I'm like a whisk. A senator to consider conditions in Article 7. And 1 0 different. but a little in the context of 6. ... likeI went in answer to another one. A senator. Hv. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon notes that maybe we need a frame, like we need in page 7. So at least we have to go outside the law if we're going to react to them, it takes some tiny pian to stick with the material. I'd like to ask you what. Senator: Don't we need something to happen if we get outside this frame? It is not hard in itself to establish laws as goals, as it is not difficult not to reach the prices of the Federal Bank, there is no problem, it is customary not to hold the law, that various institutions exceed financial laws, and no one knows where the responsibility is, and nothing really happens until something like this bill is introduced and we discuss it. But there remains concern that if the conditions mentioned in paragraph 7. if they're too strict, if they're not practical, these plans just won't work out. I'm a little worried about that. I wonder what. A senator has some ideas about what can be done to avoid it, if not simply to have the conditions a little softer. Now I don't have time for another question, so I'll have her waiting for a second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u106	Mr. President. It's just like that, right next door. A member of the council said that there is reason to consider Article 6. Also in relation to this, i.e. Baseline values, but they are now so beautifully put; sustainableness, carefulness, stability, firmness and transparency, it's all so elegant that I'm sure I'm on it. Of course, the values to build are important. I might have wanted something there that clearly pointed out, so it would not be misunderstood, responsible for the future. Of course it does, at least if you put the environmental understanding into it, that means you can't walk on the rights of future generations, this is supposed to be sustainable in that sense. Around the 7th and 10th. Otherwise, I can't add much. In fact, I can try to put it this way and then look back and forth, we must conclude that we had already had some kind of discipline on ourselves. We must at least hope that when that happened, there would have been no more missteps in the hands, had they had clear financial rules, had there been standards, and there would have been evidence that men were going off and that men had been forced to come to the council and admit that it was all gone in the sink. I think I'm saying something by the frame. But my concern about him is two kinds. I've come from earlier, that's a practical thing. I'm not sure that in such narrow space, we can have the full potential for public financial stability in the economy for the benefit of society. The other concerns are political. Of course, if they want to hide behind these frameworks in order to run more cutting or narrowing politics, if they are so incarcerated, that's how they are in politics. I can't deny that I'm worried about these strollers if hard-necked cutthroats and liberators had come up with this thing to excuse the cutting down, etc., men who, for example, had to. I didn't want to make money. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u107	A respectable president. In my opinion, 6th paragraph is short. ... wasprevious. I believe it's been missing a lot in the years before a crash, like a whale. A senator knows best, since he was very prominent at the time to warn people about what could happen, and so it happened. There is another point that was presented in the Sermon on the Mount. A senator I'd like to ask. That's exactly what I'm talking about. should only be activated because of economic breakdown, national age, or other circumstances that are impossible to handle by means of available measures. Clearly, it is very much that has to be done to activate the article, and that is correct. I'm worried that people won't be thinking about the caution because they're afraid of building the market. You see, I remember before a crash that if you gave it up, and it was the natural worst if they were trustworthy, that there'd be a lot of trouble or reason for intervention, or to do something like that, something radical, then they wouldn't have the debate so out of fear of staging the market and causing fear and thus destroying the economy. This is a contradiction that I always find in political discussions about economics. Somehow we're under obligation to act like we're all right. Hv. A senator must know the most about this man. So that's what worries me about 1 0kt. that if we don't have a process or some kind of program that's active when everything's good, we don't see the threat until it's too late because we don't talk about things like they're when they start looking bad.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u108	Mr. President. That in itself is an excellent point and is absolutely correct. We discussed this, for example, when the funds conference was being set up. There was then a debate about the transparency of their jobs and that reports came immediately after meetings and other people didn't say: Yes, but if there is now some dangerous situation and everyone panics if it turns out that financial standards have come together for extra meetings, etc.? This, naturally, did not strategize the market, does not cause undue fear and fear. It's a crumb that humans obviously can always get into. But then let us consider the expression "thorn in the Bible. " Based on this, is it not necessarily dangerous that it should not be activated unless it is almost a major natural disaster or economic collapse, instead of saying that some modified social and economic circumstances might be a justification for the Minister to make room for something fundamental or make this somehow different? Then there's a smaller panik on the move, if people just come out and say, "Hey, the state's doing a great job, that's beating here in the backslide, there's even a risk of evasion or investments, so we need to use the power of the state better to counteract the economy. Five years is not enough, so we ask to have only more space. There's nothing wrong with that in my mind because this has to happen to the council, because it will be discussed and examined, because the financial Council will give its own reviews, etc. That's why I don't think it's dangerous just to have that space a little bit more. It would also be nice to try words 6. new from the experience of the demented years before the collapse. I think it should just then say that it would be forbidden to say nothing about public financial matters, that should be watched and listened to, they were usually telling the truth and the right thing. If the gauges said people were running into a ditch, they'd probably be running into a ditch. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u109	A respectable president. Thank you for what's been presented here. I'm not going to come up here to extend the discussion and say it because I mean it. But I would like to ask a few questions following this discussion. In view of this morning's meeting at the Board of Directors and Control Committee with the Generals, I'd like to have it past the Supreme Court. The secretary of finance whether this bill is not guaranteed, as it is today, to consider that funding is being made to the WCC and other agencies under the council because all of this praxize is now being changed on how the fiscal bill is being developed. So I would like to agree with the viewpoints that have been presented to include some of the laws that help to strengthen the council and the council's office when it comes to working with all the information being presented. I think there would be an improvement if the lyrics of the Law were made clearly. I also feel that there is reason to respond. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter discussed how we react to certain abnormalities that arise in this community. I have understood this bill so that stability should be promoted and produced will depend on the progress that needs to occur at any given time. Thus, we can see that at some point in the future, whether we like it or not, political people do not face the same pressures and often come from the various categories of interest and affairs that arise on a certain occasion. So we are better equipped to make long-term plans that have a positive effect on the general economy here. I'm delighted, therefore, that there is a great future in the United States that is being looked for and planned, because it is now with the future that at some point it will be present, and I have felt that all economic administration, as it has been observed, is under chance and emotion, much more than perhaps strong plans in the past, since decisions are made on the basis of how they can affect the future, not the balance of the situation as it is today, under pressure from time to time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u110	V.E.G. President. I've had a bit of this conversation before in opposition to the highest degree. At the beginning of the discussion, the minister of finance is moved to add some more words. The discussion has been informative, and I'm thinking that any major company would feel comfortable with this kind of discussion in its management, a business that wanted to get close to their finances, and provide a responsible budget. The question is again whether the same holds true in a community. That's where I have doubts. V.E.G. The secretary of finance said that history contained bad examples, not his words, but bad examples that should give us reason to pause and consider attaching to the laws of the frames we have in this bill, which are legally restricted to domestic debt. You're absolutely right by the Topv. Secretary of finance that history contains bad examples and does not have to look far back in history to find them. The worst cases, however, do not necessarily turn to penalties but, rather, to the alleged benefits, which have actually been short - term benefits. Then I'm talking about rural communities who have sold their assets only to rent them back from new owners and thus become heavily busied and then into debt in the long run. We have seen this, and this has been one of the factors that led to a huge debt of both many of our rural communities and to the unwary financial control, to the restoration of the debt of rural communities in the last terms approved. The criteria are different from those found in this bill. Here we see gross domestic product, which was referred to by law as the total income of the rural communities, that the penance should not exceed 150%. At the original bill, or drag, I received, as Minister of the Interior, it was assumed that this number would be much lower. I think I remember correctly that she was supposed to be 90%. And there was a warning in this room, and the fear of those who made a warning went out that the bill would be used for global change, for personalization. The fact then was that after the bill was approved, with 15% of the roof, rural communities came to me as Minister of the State, communities who were in debt, and who wanted to make considerable loans to build social housing and say, and it was convincing, that it would eventually pay itself, both socially, this made society stronger and better, and would also be an investment that would result in a long-term return of income. I'll mention it as an example. I'd like to include another example from my experience world, from my experience. I was elected president of BSRB in the fall of 1988. When we began studying the nest, a newly elected government, we found that something that had never been a secret place, that a debt due to the holiday alliance was huge, running at hundreds of millions of people who were a lot of money back then. It was that we were actually sentenced to inactivity for the next ten years, the next decade. We were sentenced to spend all the money we needed to pay off debt and to maintain it. Was it good or bad? Had it been a mistake investment from my predecessors? No. That had been very wise. It was built up a holiday area we enjoyed and my generation benefited from, this was our children's unit. It was inhabited by 100 houses and, on the other hand, various partners of the Union were attacking the construction of orbs and then set these limits on the future, because, of course, all of us are seeking to run our institutions and rural organizations and our states wisely. The goal is not to collect debt or to push our community with a tilt, of course not. But we want to keep this space, and we want to avoid a legal device that will force us into a system change that has since been tried to go over the past few years, because the other way for the debted community society that wants to build its own apartments is to encourage private people to do this and then use their own resources to pay off their rents, they have the interest and possession of the apartments. This is the real danger of entering the direction outlined here. What's the point of this? The concept is this way: The General Assembly decides a framework, how much we're going to spend on community affairs, how much money we're going to make, and how much we're going to spend on community affairs. We're also going to decide here what to do with certain lities. We're not going to carve the individual institutions, we're going to carve the classes. This is exactly the same discussion that took place in this building in 1996 when people were trying to make significant changes in the financial affairs of the State, and the thought was: The state or community decides what to do, how much to spend on it, and then it is the manager who decides how to do it, and it doesn't matter whether it's a public party or a private employee. This was a check and access to a privateisation, into a changed arrangement. It does not necessarily have to be a codfish, but it is, in effect, the thought. First, we set the box, encourage him, and deal with how much he should spends on certain lawsuits and a dot. The decision force is moving to a greater extent than at this time to the Commission, the Ministry. Who are likely to be victims when the discussion of individual organizations is taken out of this hall, from the television news, from the radio news? It's the little places, it's the little institutions and little places. And we know how much the sacrifice can be in cutting those democratic strings. When we were cutting down at difficult time in surgery, there were meetings all over the country; in Húsavík, in sheep's jar, at the hospital staff, in the city of Rhinenes. It affected us here. Was it bad? No, it was good. Then we just had to face up to it, and we did. But it was good to have a response and to continue the discussion in conversations with the nation, this conversation with individual organizations, and that is what is to be taken and taken away. Then there is a police authority, which is being developed as a financial council, and there is a phenomenon that is supposed to be promoted to the Holy Scriptures that will be created here every spring, and that there will be no compromise, that financial plans follow the values listed earlier in the law, as directed in paragraph 13. The bill. Who should be involved in financial matters? There are individuals appointed according to the appointment of the General Assembly. The minister shall appoint three men for financial counsel, two men shall be appointed according to the appointment of the Council, and one according to the appointment of the prime minister; and he shall also be president. Interestingly, the chairman is to be impartial, to be impartial, to have knowledge of public financial matters. The head of a financial body shall have completed advanced university education in a field of education that acts on the role of the Council. Could be slow, top dog. Secretary of finance, to get as one name perhaps to adapt to this noble description? What person are we talking about? Could we have some idea what this is about? What people are talking about? What are these discriminating people they're talking about by a doctor's name improvement in the field of education involved in the financial affairs of the state? Who are they? When I was a health minister, I was once asked at a meeting of doctors if it was clever to have a health minister who was not a doctor. I said it might be a lot smarter to have a patient as a health minister than a doctor, someone who knew the system from that end. And we represent them in their discussion of the State's budget. It's us in this room and they're cutting all these umbilical cables and everybody's gonna be happy to take it, almost. It sounds like most people are happy, great, and you feel like you're in the main meeting at a big firm. But where are those who should be in charge of welfare and make sure that the laws we have passed on the rights of the patients, their rights, and our community to enjoy law enforcement, welfare services, have a roof over their heads, etc.? Where is it? Where does this law or bill take place? Nowhere. No, it is not because all thinking is financial, and it is not consideration for social, social, and social factors. On the contrary, all strings are being cut. We all know it, and we've done the many things in this room. What is most likely to happen if we are faced with cutting down contributions to health care or police work under narrow conditions? Is it not likely that we look to the smallest of unity? That's what's always been done, that's what we're looking at the smallest of our components, and that's where we're in the country. It will be the first victim after those laws and thinkings have been imposed on the law. I'm just surprised if it's really enough to take a financier to one meeting, in Sweden, where people were tricked into recording these rules, to convince the entire General to track it in one piece. I don't believe it. [[Upwards: Be reasonable.]] Be reasonable, that's absolutely right, I'll take it back. Of course, buying is not being done, but people are being led to believe that something Sweden did must be undisputed. But it is not. Sweden has found its way into a number of wrong paths over the past few years in financial and organizational matters, e.g. The medical services they are now trying to unwind and get back. It's just reality. That's why I say, at the highest. Let's be careful about these changes. I don't think they're for good. That is not to say that I don't want to reach certain goals that the bill assumes to be reasonable in controlling financial control of state and rural society. It's a completely different thing than being tied and tied down by law in the way suggested here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u111	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for an interesting speech. It's always fun when we talk here about things that seem basically indiscriminate to hear from someone who doesn't approve of it as well as perhaps most of the others who have spoken that day. But I'd like to know which one. A senator is in favor of the case or not as if it showed up. A senator now. That's the first question. Also, I'd like to ask you which one. Senator on Level 7. and its conditions. Hv. A senator rightly raises specific options that are so narrow that he forces people into some sort of system change that they might not otherwise go into or even find it harder to justify themselves from social values, such as that. A senator did so well. I wondered, " Would it not be closer, rather than relax these conditions, to create some kind of response plan, along with the good ones, and when things are going well in the economy to cope with their setbacks, and when they happen and of course they happen from time to time? ' I'm asking because this is where the old Keynes has been, and I don't know where he is. A senator stands up to his most famous theories and theories, but if the idea is that we need to be able to expand the affairs of the State during difficult times, is it not rather something that we should build up when well - learned rather than assume that we need to go into extreme debt when things go wrong?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u112	V.E.G. President. I'm asking if I'm in favor. No, I'm very opposed. About 7. Then will I command that she be taken away: she shall be taken out. I don't think this is supposed to be legal in this way. That is not to say that I don't want to aim for the goals set out there to have as little government debt as possible. I've been showing it that I'm all for it, I want it. I participated in the last government's efforts to cut down expenses and to raise taxes to improve the state's debt status, so that's quite another arm. We're talking about the proportion of land production. When it comes together, we may have to add to Keynes' spirit code. I'm opposed to putting this legal frame on us. If I look at what we've been trying to do in recent years, it's being smart in the financial administration. Lörs were tried to move our left men to the point of being irresponsible, trying to destroy and not to catch. The left movement has shown by its proposal that we wanted to do the two things together, to raise money for the money we believe the government should attack. So we're speaking for council, of course we will, and I will. I'm not making a recommendation against it, but I'm protesting being put in handcuffs, political handcuffs in the way suggested here, and the Council of Decision is brought into the interior of the Commission as is also suggested in this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u113	A respectable president. I have never personally claimed that the right man or the left man is generally more responsible or less responsible for financial matters than the rest. I think the question is far more complicated than that. I often think it depends on a year's journey or simply on whether the ideals known as the left are more appropriate, or the ideals that are called right. In fact, I have to admit that I often get very confused when it comes to that particular ace. I know why. A senator cannot answer that question in two minutes, but I wondered what he thinks would be appropriate for him to try to achieve those goals. Everyone seems to agree on our goals, and how should we achieve them if not by means of a legal arrangement that allows us to have a long - term schedule? This bill shows that this should be a long - term plan, so the objective is, of course, that there can be a slight future discussion and therefore deal with the questions that plaguing. A senator and certainly a lot more on community roles, etc. Well, maybe. A senator explained in two minutes the ideas he has, wouldn't he use a legal procedure, would he not use some political process? Is it not good to have a legal frame of mind about how we are going to handle these matters?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u114	V.E.G. President. I'm gonna stick to saying that on the left side, we've been more responsible for financial matters than the right side has been in recent years. [[Up front.]] It's just reality, and it's supposed to be what it is. That's the way it has been. I refer to the experience of the collapse, then after the collapse, and judge men of actions. What should be used if we do not have the law to support us if we do not allow the law to motivate us to do so? I'll tell you what. A senator what to use. I'm being smart. It's supposed to be good sense. And who will? Of course, this is what we do here in this hall with the decisions we make on how we spend the money of the state from a joint fund to welfare or to other public interests. We should make the requirement for ourselves that we make sure that we make the same money so that we are not going into debt. Then I'm simply saying that the process we're creating is likely to be my sentence to become at the expense of the welfare, at the expense of the small institutions, at the expense of small settlements, I think it will be the victim if this process is being proposed to be realized in Icelandic law.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u115	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for an excellent review of his point of view here. I think it's important that there be differences in viewpoints about the pros and cons of this bill and its individual articles. In particular, we've been looking at the 7th and 10thres. reviewing some of the more complex areas in which rural society has been established. I'd like to say that the experience with their rules for rural society was good. I'm going to have a conversation with a mayor not long ago, when he said, "You know, it's just completely changed all the practices at the state level. Now that we have a clear, detailed rule on where we need to go, people don't talk about it anymore. The order has been established, and then everyone is united in the task of reaching, below the debt criteria set there. I've had a very clear example of this. The discussion on this subject and the report refers to a number of mistakes in the past, and I'm going to ask men not to start trying to find some outstanding example of some remarkable mistake. There is generally evidence that we have been able to do things better over the years. There are some examples from the construction of the state's budget, also from the work at the level of government. Of course, could we mention how the money policy has been carried out in different periods and beyond that, is it not certain that we can find many examples that the workforce has not been contributing to an increase in stability? I'm sure if it can't apply at this time too. But here we are considering what we can directly influence, public finance, the link to the state level of government, and the rules I believe are a sound ground for us. And I think, to meet the worry as well. A senator has, to 10th par. The bill provides the amount of space that needs to be available when special circumstances come to us.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u116	V.E.G. President. With all due respect to the highest. Secretary of finance, and with all due respect to an all-witnessed platoon member who believes that the legislature has contributed to a completely different operation at the state level, I'll allow me to question that this is absolutely correct. I believe, however, that the discussion related to this matter and these laws that I personally committed, I moved the bill to change from its original form, as I mentioned, which originally referred to about 90% of debt, the discussion that has been done in society changed attitudes. It also changed the attitude of looking forward to the fact that some societies had committed themselves to a dangerous situation and had become troubled by the inhabitants, their owners, and the changes needed to be radical. We have also learned, and local authorities have learned from bitter experiences that selling all their possessions, their housing, and then renting from themselves again. This is a bitter experience, one that has been learned without a law specifically stated. That's what's happened in Iceland. Happily, though, we have been taught by the collapse, and of course it is our duty and duty to keep this discussion going at all times. No matter what we put in the law, if we don't have the right attitude in this regard, we'll be going through in the dark soon. One thing I'd like to say is, which was spoken in the highest language. Secretary of finance earlier, and I'd like to make a comment. He said: "We must not give the Commission an example where to go, and these laws will prevent it. " [[The president calls.]] There's never been a chance of self-involved to the Commission. The government has been responsible for and has had to apply the budget set up. [[The president calls.]] The question we're dealing with is, What's the reason we're supposed to build these budgets?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u117	Mr. President. What we are really discussing here is the question of whether we have accumulated enough experience through the years so that we can generally agree on what needs to happen in public financial matters and, as a result, be free from having to make any special rules in that subject, or whether this cumulative experience may not be enough to ensure that we will always make wise decisions. My opinion is it's time. There is good reason to give evidence to test at the council whether they can agree on a core principle in the long-term policy barriers of public finance, which will always be used to guide the history of their long-term plans and budgets of each year, so that they are there for us in the law to look into and act as a rule on whether each year's budget and plans over time meet the standards we have set in this manner. This is what many others have done. Those who are concerned about making such rules, such as why. A member of this body explains, seems to agree that they will, under special circumstances, be too difficult for us, and thus they will create reactions that are undesirable to society in general. For example, it would be something that could happen in the smaller settlements or in the setting of well - being somewhere else. But then I'm here to call attention to the fact that these are in spite of all the guidelines. It's not a law of punishment. We're not putting this into a general penal law. [[The president calls.]] We're trying to see if we can agree on certain primary goals, and if this doesn't make more sense of following the rules, no one has come to say that all councilmen or individual ministers will be pursued and imprisoned. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] However, it is always possible to set this measuring bar on the current activity, and you have to endure that discussion. That's really all that happens.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u118	V.E.G. President. There's no one doing it, or I'm not doing it, that people would set long - term goals and develop plans in the same way that we would set aside for many years of transportation, which we will then review regularly. It exists, I don't remember how many years, 15 years old, I think it's, like, 15 or 20, and then revise every five years. Then we take each year into budgets and constantly reevaluate the situation, e.g. If a course like a Valale-leaf tunnel goes out of hand, we need to revise contributions to other matters on a transport program. But what I'm trying to criticize is that we should submit to the stigma called the financial counsel of an evil man. I have not yet received an answer or a name and a teaching number on an example of the unwilling person who has completed advanced university education in the field of education, which is designed to play a role in the council and to have a sort of police authority over the International Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u119	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a bill on government finance, and if this bill is being conducted for the third time and it becomes a law, I'd like to say, a very positive effect on the government structure and a positive influence on how politicians treat and deal with the state's budget. I think it will also lead to more informed media discussions and it will be more accessible to the public to monitor our activities here at the General Assembly and to observe how the city's taxes are spent. I've been through it here, but I'm going to remember that this bill has a long history. That was a good time. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, then the highest. Of course, a minister of finance who started that work was in the condition of serving as a minister of finance with a wealth of almost total money, calming biofuel to save the land from bankruptcy. This is the offspring of a highly improved work done during the last term of the reign of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir. In many places, repairs and reforms have been needed, and many of them have taken considerable time. Then came the time for this work. A senator and then the minister of finance, Oddný Harðardóttir, then why. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir, who also served as minister of finance, has now the highest authority. I want to thank Bjarni Benediktsson for taking over the baton, and I want to thank him for his firmness in this project, and I will do what I can to help him get it to the dock. The financial committee has also been at various levels, and, of course, a financial committee that is working most effectively with this bill. When I was on a budget during the last term, we were given a presentation primarily at the work that was going on, which was very much, and we prepared well for this. This affected the discussion of the Committee and the interest of the Committee on improving their work practices, and we went on our previous visit to Sweden to study the course of the hearing and visited the Senate, the Ministry of finance, the Council of finance, the trove of debt, or the Agency responsible for the affairs of debt, public accountants, finance, and other institutions. It was a simple lesson, and for us members of the budget board, a complete new experience, to get to know the financial background. However, this was not just because Sweden once had a high - quality, more extensive explanation. Sweden, like Icelanders, became less serious than we are, but seriously that the government case was completely taken away to prevent the passing of debt. I would like to use this opportunity to thank the many people who have come to this work, of course most of whom are government officials, and many more have come to the project and have worked on it with the common goal of improving in the long term the interests of the state and of all of us. Hv. paritaprevir The Ögmundur of Jónasson made here the subject of the 7th C.E. and that was just as tough. paritaprevir Oddný Harðardóttir on conditions of financial policy and financial programmes. I can totally agree with the concern that, of course, we cannot legally assume the possibility of working against economic hardships with a more effective policy in government matters. This is the natural basis for the Italian politics we used in the last term, which has become an example to other countries and really, what you should say, ◯benchmark to show you how to use the terms of the money, and that in a very difficult situation where we could not allow ourselves to be allowed. But it may simply be a principle, but there are obvious criteria for when to be removed, and so, of course, there can be exceptions. Then I'd like to state that I'm not trying to undermine the fact that we're supposed to take seriously these legislation, but there's gotta be a reasonable amount of space to take on the necessary economic activities in the area of government to cope with economic hardship. And because it was time to discuss the responsible economic regime of the left, I just wanted to let myself brag about how well we did, we did so well that now it's a party in the palace. Now people are cutting down the left, right, actually still cutting down into an extremely significant kind of public service that is somewhat special, not allowing the load to be enjoyed by the good, but so successful in following a disciplined economy during the last term that the present government can have a party. It's too bad it's not for everyone, just for their chosen friends, but it's for us to fight against it. There will always be an issue what the size of the state's funds should be, what the scope of the state's budget should be in gross domestic product. Whether this law will be present remains a political bite. It tells us how to handle the government's budget, not how much government funds are supposed to be in the economy, and there I will not compromise my conviction that we should have a large and powerful budget that will hold up the vessels we all have together, the health systems, the education systems, the law enforcement systems, and other systems that make society a good and civilized society that we are running together. I went over it in answer to the highest. Secretary of the budget that I think the bill is a little bit more focused on the General. I encourage the budget to look at it. Of course, she's already discussed this matter and resolved the committee, unfortunately in a slight disagreement, and I can't really understand that there was no way to find out where people would meet, and I also encourage financial ministers to blend in with it. It must be in the best interests of everyone that something can be left behind to get everyone on board together, and I understand that it was mostly one of the articles on which the helicopter was on. But I strongly encourage a financial committee who has discussed this matter to take time to review what needs to happen here at the General Assembly so that we can become a strong member of this business because we're under financial control. We need to have experts and equipment available in order to fulfill this role and to carry the responsibility that we should bear as elected representatives of the General Assembly. That was exactly the time when we were on our famous Sweden tour - the first, I know that a new legal committee has gone to Sweden and is well, since there are many good things to learn there - that brought our attention to the council that is engaged in a special financial office that has to order good specialists and has to place, for example. Parts of my share out their own financial initiatives, changing proposals to the government's financial primes. The current budget bill, it's different, it's a different school, it's an older one, but the Icelandic budget bill, if this bill is legal, will be very much like Swedish, with areas and subtypes. Then it has to be that, with the help of someone working on our side, we can get analysis and coverage. As a member of the Parliament, I trust a well-trusted Icelandic government, get information there, get information, and view those who need a job in my behalf. But the General cannot accept that there is no intelligence provider and analyst within their own ranks. This may be because it is foreign in Iceland to talk about administrative matters, such as unnecessary or some fat that should preferably be cut. This government has cut down much between discussions in the administrations, that is the attitude that exists there on a town in the administration, but this is the administrative agency, the unit that is supposed to keep in mind the implementation of legislation in Iceland. These are the people of the country and are to work under the guidance of the public interests of the country. The same is true of the General staff. It's working to get the work done so that we here are chosen as few as possible to get information and then analyze it to make a decision on the basis of their analyses. That may be basically two things I wanted to come on and I already mentioned, that is, first of all, 7. I feel that there is good reason to consider how to keep it so that we do not prevent a government fund from working against economic hardships without even giving in to the idea of holding on to something rigid. Second, I believe that the Council needs much more support in order to become a strong member of this cooperation on the budget. But third, I wanted to mention 13. ... aboutthe financing. I don't have any memory in my earlier discussion, but I wonder if there can be more than three agents. I think it'd be better if they were five. I'm not going to fight for this, but I think there's good reason to look into it, because this is going to be a very big commission and power to give a score of statesmen's conduct in the realm, and it's important that a broad group come to such a grade.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u120	President. I just want to say something, especially because I think it's a very interesting bill. There is hardly anything against its goals in my view. It's making rules about how we manage the budget, which has not been very modern to date. No doubt the 1997 budget has been fixed, I think, but it will soon be 20 years since 1997, so it may have been time to update it. I think it's a very remarkable bill, and although it doesn't mean that I agree with exactly everything in it, I'm really happy about it. There is no new truth that economic management has not been the hallmark of the Icelanders. This is shown in the report with the bill. There's nothing new about it, but it's being handled here, and a very big attempt is being made to link all government and government. During the discussion today, I found that there was much to say. paritaprevir Proppé, he said there weren't two pockets to fight, it's all a bit each time. People in general are not making as much distinction as does the local government and the financial community. Although I'm dealing with this at the council, I'm not making this much distinction between my country's capital and my state, although, of course, it's done in the Ministry of finance. I think it's really good that this is being handled and wrapped in context. After that, financial guidelines are set. General baseline values of 6 g. I think it's very difficult to disagree. Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson has suggested that there be one more, i.e. "foreseeable." Well, I may, but I don't think anybody's against the idea that these baselines should be guided. Then the budget is set in Article 7. and, of course, they can be disputed. Are they too strict? Do not allow them enough space to apply government funds, government funds, and, for example, rural communities. by reason of the precipitousness of the lack of the economy, which they might want to use for the money? It just needs to be discussed. A very detailed discussion must be made and the interaction between Article 7. and 10th par. which tells us when to deviate from these rules. It must be done on a budget. I think it's important for people to go through it and listen to one another in their discussions. There is a new process on how financial laws are approved. In spring, we received a glimpse of this when the government budget was submitted. Of course, that doesn't mean that the politicians don't have anything to do with the budget, because it does because the emphasis must be on the budget, as we said here in spring. That is why some of us said that we missed candidates because they did not participate in the discussion. We said: "This is a four - year - old political issue, and do you really agree with it? The budget will, of course, continue during the spring season. Maybe I misunderstood. Jónasson Ögmundur am afraid not only of this financial rule or financial order but also of the council's career, of what's decided at the council, that it's in some framework, and the council can't protect small organizations and so forth. That's why I think that's why. Harðardóttir I heard her do that, that some kind of play or scheme would be set up to work at the council so that we could see what the frame would be like. Unfortunately, there was no time for this financial program, which was put forward in spring, since the first time men were experimenting, these frames were not like that. I think it would be very good if members of the Parliament could see how these frames looked, what the council was deciding, what the exchange would be, and later it would come into the budget. I think it would be really good if you could make some of those rules. Hv. paritaprevir Ingibjörg Ingadóttir has stressed that the council needs additional support in order to deal with the government and the process. You can agree with that. Then it was mentioned in a talk. paritaprevir Katrín's daughter, Jakobsdóttir's Catherine, quoted Þórólfur Mishiah's Matthíasson, who is now not an old man, but he is still my old professor, that perhaps it would be right to set up a new national interest system, such as the one removed and that the goals would be set and not necessarily bound by law. It may well be the same. I remind you, we approved at the council hall of a famous Senate resolution. Was it not called the 63:0 convention resolution? When the World Council Report on the collapse of the banks was completed here, we agreed that they should set up a new national interest agency. I think it's time we thought about it. I think it's necessary, regardless of the fact that we're making so much changes in the handling of the money. It may be said that the wave and everything that took place in the 2000 or around the world - that was clear at the time of the collapse of the National Institute of Economic Health and was no longer independent of an organization that dealt with the economy. I think that even if we had a good career on how the budget is set and government money is handled, it would be necessary for us to get an independent economic agency that worked here in the field of research and plans, and would be there for everyone, for the sake of professional life, for us and for all people. I believe this bill is just a revolution in how we approach the government budget, but there is still a need for an independent national economic institution. I think we should start fulfilling the promise we made to set up such an institution. I repeat what I said at the beginning: I'm not saying there's not something to turn into the bill and act differently. It'll have to be checked in. The financial standards of Article 7 especially need to be considered. and mix with Article 10. which allows exceptions from applying these rigid rules. Other than that, I welcome this work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u121	A respectable president. I don't want to extend this discussion much, but there are several articles in this bill that I feel are worth discussing right now. Much of this has already been discussed, including in reply, but I would like to add just a few points. First of all, it's 6. which covers the baseline values of five, i.e. Sustainableness, caution, stability, firmness and transparency; all good and beautiful values as they have been applied. But I would like to suggest that the sixth value be added that would be prudent. The reason is that I don't feel wise over the long term about how optimistic people are in general, especially members of Congress, and those who influence them when they speak, about possible future setbacks. I myself believe that economic collapses, and at least crisis and crisis, are inevitable, the inevitable consequence of the future being unknown. In a very variable world, where investments depend on unknown size for an unknown time, only time will be a matter of time before a very serious economic crisis will occur. In fact, I think this will be more common in the future. As technology progresses more rapidly, it becomes increasingly difficult to predict how the latest technology or new ideas will work out in the future. A fine example is the so - called dot.com pool that exploded just after the turn of the century. The problem was that people had made investments based on expectations that they did not understand. This happens regularly. It's growing. New devices are always being invented. There are three-dimensional printers coming in and drawings, and God knows it. The real value of this technology is unknown in advance, so they invest to some extent blindly. This leads to regular vaccination and unavoidable explosion of such bubbles. In view of this, I think much of it is responsible for economic management, and to a greater extent over time, assuming economic problems. Rather than focusing on avoiding the things we too are supposed to do, we need to recognize that we do not know the future. We do not understand and will never understand what our expectations for the future are realistic, and especially among investors. I think it's important that the situation is over before the crash. Enough about that for now. A lot of talk has been made about 7th degree. The bill is about the conditions of financial policy and financial agendas, but without the precise analysis of the percentages, there's a link between 7. and 10th par. 10th par. is a review of financial policies in the face of economic crisis, national pressure, or other situations that are impossible to deal with with with with with certain options. 10th par. It is part of the perplexing speech of influential people to minimize possible predictable setbacks. As a result, I fear that there would never be a 10th parr. Until it was too late. It would never have gone into operation until something had already gone wrong. In view of this, I think it would be good to think that it would be wise to soften only the goals of Article 7. Actually, I trust a dog. The body of elders did well to examine it carefully, and certainly we can look at it more closely at the 2nd. However, this context and the trend for optimism, not to strategize the market, makes us feel that we are moderate in our goals. If my goals are unrealistic, I worry that it will become foreign to predict wrong and that it will be part of the tradition that is formed, comparable to those we now have financial laws. We expect institutions to overtake the budget, and then people argue about where the responsibility is, and even when people find out where it lies, nothing will change. Of course, this bill is a major factor in improving the problem. But how tradition develops over which goals are achieved and which are not achieved is important. I don't like it if things develop right away because they don't get caught, so it's important that they have more realistic goals than they do when they're out there. V.E.G. Financial and economic ministers earlier said it's not a law, it's a set of standards, and that's correct. It is the nature of this bill and of the supposed law that it is not a law of law. Rather, it is important that our goals be realistic and that we immediately have the tradition of living up to our assigned goals. Count 9. The bill discusses a long-term report that should be submitted at least every three years. I would like to suggest that it might be wise to submit such a report more frequently because the world scene is changing more rapidly. For example, it would now be good to have a clearer view of the effects of subsidies in the Chinese economy on our shopping and export. It would be very good if such things were to occur. There are a number of big things in the global economy that we know to be important, such as if there's a recession in Russia or something about the same thing or, as just recently happened, that there will be commercial pressure. It is fine for us to discern in advance the effect that such a situation will have on us. We can't predict everything, but we can predict some things, and I think keeping that in mind is an improvement. The world changes rapidly and faster, I think, so I suggest that it might be wise to have a report like this more than every three years, possibly every year; maybe just every two years, it might work. There's something I would love to hear. The committee would discuss. This is in line with the Q12 report. I now refer to it only in relation to the 9th paragraph. This will include a quarterly financial report, which should be available within eight weeks of the completion of each quarter of the year. I like that law very well, and I think it will greatly improve the discussion. That makes it 13. The bill on the financial council. I don't have much to say unless I want to agree with the idea that this will be just a multi-organized scheme. I'm also a little jumpy, like a whisk. paritaprevir The wonder of Ögmundur the son of Jónasson, over these fitting conditions of the Chairman. We live in a very small community and I find an interesting question about which individuals would be eligible for such a position by education in this particular field. I may not be quite as suspicious of it as I am. Jónasson I think the question is valid and interesting. Section 16. is the last person I'm going to discuss for a while, but it's about the budget. Every time we've discussed the budget here, the time I've been at the council, the budget is being discussed. We, who are more computer candidates, perhaps new members, often beg for funding; it can be confusing, and it can be difficult to find some kind of fast evidence. At times, something that is vague, inaccurate, and misleading may even appear in the media because it is difficult to examine matters quickly and carefully. There's a few things in the budget that you can do, and no one's spoken against it so I know. I've never heard anyone come here in a pit and say that the budget is in order. That's because she could be so much better. It would be very convenient, incredibly convenient, if budgets were published in computerized form and in relation to previous budgets so that you could see changes in physical sizes, changes in the context of many indicators not only one index number but a consumer marker, a pay number, even a mortgage number; to publish these in computerized forms would one and make a lot better because of them going into town and companies interested in this or institutions, research sites, universities, etc., looking at these data and working from them. And while not necessarily understanding computer data, it is not the goal, it is the goal of creating data that others can create and provide more clearly in beautiful color cookies, etc. That's all I'm gonna talk about this time. I think this bill is a great improvement or what I already know about it. I look forward to seeing the committee's opinion, which I now hope to be one, but firmly assume will be two, and I look forward to the second.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u122	A respectable president. I appreciate very pleasant discussions here today in which different viewpoints have been developed. We've tore up the case from different sides. The amount of time has taken to discuss the financial rules, but other aspects of the bill have also been established; those involved in the series, what dangers might be involved in making the separation that is being proposed between the bill itself and the copy, what negative consequences may come from this. The need to strengthen both the administration and the council has been discussed. We have also brought up the discussion that we agree that we can do better, and I'm going to let it be my accession here at the end. Of course, the Law bill is not perfect, as is the case with other laws that we put at the council, and in the future there will be suggestions for changing these laws or even new universal laws on this subject. However, this is an effort to improve, build on the basis that we have built up by the budget and on the experience of the past few years and decades and development of the environment, the legal environment and the order of public finances so that what is going on in the state of the budget and in the countryside is to support the goals we are in spite of all conflicting differences that the pursuit of stability is important. I have not mentioned it much today, but this is in my mind one cornerstone of the new overall agreement with the labour market partners, that the state shows that it is ready to contribute to stability, that men respond to the faults in the existing rules, that action should be taken to show that one can be done better, among other things, in supporting the Secret Bank in the legal objectives he is intended to achieve. By taking these steps and demonstrating that people are willing to submit to even rigid financial rules, I believe that people are in a strong position to ask for it at the workplace to change how they work, to make changes toward what has turned out well elsewhere. Then I refer to the work that has been done over the past few years and was largely combined in the report on the continuation of collective agreements published in 2013. But trust has been missing from the work market to the government, to the council. There is concern over the implementation of money policy or the fact that the council is not due according to incidents, that the council and the European Commission do not speak enough at the level of government, etc. It's a lot of these little puzzles that you need to sort out to get the overall picture. This is a very important entry into the overall context of the objects of my knowledge. For the financial rule and the interaction between 7 and 10. g., I suppose the committee will do well with that and natural that there are problems that will be handled well in that context, but about that I'd like to say the same thing as I mentioned earlier, we're not putting a constitution. Sometimes we just have to take the step. No one's saying that this is the only way, but it's my way of knowing how we feel and what we've done well elsewhere. It has been examined in the World Bank since its birth. It has been read and examined by international specialists in this regard, and it has been examined repeatedly on the budget board, and it tolerates an even further opinion on a committee and conference, and I believe that these steps are the right course to take. Then time will tell if you want to make small changes, and that would only be a change of law. We don't have to go into any complex, long process to make some adjustments. But I believe we have found a rule that is good for us to go along with for the purpose that we have been discussing today. I'd also like to mention that, if a small part of today's discussion has begun to question whether it is too extreme to tie the lawyer's hands or to set a bit of rigid standards that will even be difficult to follow, and it may call out some negative response elsewhere, that in general discussion of the matter, the view that these rules have not been sufficiently advanced. May I remind you that many have claimed that the budget is still missing in the case. It would be a step further. It would really be something that I see in my mind that we are simply putting ourselves in the budget until five years of age. It would be to say that the Council could not be joined by a five - year financial programme except the budget, i.e. The growth of expenses would have to be under certain predetermined criteria. We will be content with the bill to refer to these general criteria, and we will allow these criteria to be the core opinion of the financial Council, and we will leave the financial rules otherwise enough to ensure that caution is shown, that humans follow criteria of debt and total recovery over a five-year period, etc. This is what I'd like to reiterate to what has previously been said that we are offering all possible financial assistance to clarify the situation better and I hope to have a good cooperation with a financial committee. Actually, I can't finish my case without specifically mentioning that I have the hope that we will finish this case this year, and that is a reference to what the validation principle means, that the law will take effect at the beginning of the next year. Thank you for a great discussion here today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u123	A respectable president. I wanted to express my frustration that we had not been able to discuss the nature protection tonight. I understand that discussion will be held tomorrow. Unfortunately, I can't participate, but I will listen closely to both control and opposition. Environment Minister will be here to answer, as is customary with 1st. and I would like to state that I hope to have a good cooperation and a good consultation with the Committee. There's been a fine deal about that. It's been on the way of reconciliation, and hopefully we'll be able to close it quickly and safely, but unfortunately, we don't have much time, we only have room for November 15th. I wanted to say that I was hoping that the case would be on schedule tonight, but I understand that it isn't, and I'm disappointed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-22-10.u124	V.E.G. President. I am delighted to recommend for a bill on fair compensation for the Landakot School. Transporters besides me are nuts. Councilmen Elín Hirst, Helgi Hjörvar, Birgitta Jónsdóttir, Willum Þór son of Þórsson, and Brynhildur, the daughter of Pétursdóttir. This is a parapolitic, reasonable matter that we transporters hope to achieve quickly. I refer to the bill's report on the explanation of the subject's growth and suggest that the bill go to the General and Education Committee after this discussion.
