ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u1	It is a pleasure to know how well the program was handled on June 19, when we commemorated the 100th anniversary of the women's election, as well as at the meeting here at the General Assembly, which was established on that program at the General Assembly Hall that day. It is not excessive to say that a great degree of harmony was the decision of the Generals for the establishment of an equal rights fund. The public participation in the Eastern program was great, dignifiedly conducted, and was in all places memorable. All those who came to prepare for the program and to deliver the statue of Ingibjörg H. Bjarnason deserve much gratitude. On Saturday, some 1,500 visitors visited the General Assembly. The house was open to the public for the 100th anniversary of women's vote, and it was a presentation for women at the General Assembly and the Women's Opportunities. The guests were of all ages, women and men. On this occasion, the president would like to present the members of the Parliament, who took care of the show and received visitors, along with several members of the council, expressed appreciation for their large and excellent contribution, which is in order to open the public access to the council and to strengthen the bonds of the common people and of the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u2	Borist has a letter from what? 5th a.m. South, Páll Jóhann Pálsson's son, that he could not be a senator in the near future. So as reported on the Generals' Web site, on June 18, the General Assembly took up residence. 1 strategist on the favorite party list, Fjóla Hrund Björnsdóttir. Fjóla Hrund Björnsdóttir, who has taken up residence at the General Assembly before, is welcome to work. Borist has two letters from the head of the Congress of the House of Booths, either about Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, 1st. Witchest. "I'm not going to be able to do Congress any time soon. So today, at the Second Council, a deputy of the Apostle Party's list in the district, Anna María the daughter of Elíasdóttir, and 1st, a deputy of the district's list, has announced predestination and that Karl Garðarsson, 8th. Smoke. So, you know, can't do Congress soon. Today, then, at the World Council of 1st, a deputy of the district art, Sveinbjörg Birna's Sveinbjörnsdóttir. A letter has also been received by the chairman of the Council of Birts the future saying that Ólafsdóttir Ólafurdótttir will not be able to perform Congress in the near future. Today, therefore, a second substitute in the district of Eldar Ástþórsson Þórsson is taken, while the 1st substitute in the district's list has announced pasturage. Anna María Elíasdóttir, Sveinbjörnsdóttir Birna, and Eldar Ástþórsson have previously taken their place in the Council and are welcome back to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u3	Borist has a letter from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs asking for deadlines to give a written answer to a letter on the spell. 1414, about the sex wage among government employees and publicized companies owned by Sigríður Ingibjörg vóttir Ingadóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u4	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you very much. A president to the Generals for their work recently around the anniversary of the woman's election. I've come up under this team to make a comment to the fact that we're working here at the General Assembly and it's been about three weeks without any plan, and it's been known how long Congress will be. It must be minimal enough for the government to settle its priorities and to have some plan on how she wants to conduct matters at the council. We can, in itself, act here in September, and we have no problem with this, but Generalis's staff's time is badly spent in need of a legal vacation, and it's not a model for a good government if the government is not in the first place and doesn't know what they want to be delivered from the Congress. [[The president calls.]] I must call for that to be discussed with the front of the government. It has now been six days with celebrations and other events, and there has been no talk of anything. [[The president calls.]] I must be calling for someone to suggest how the council will continue in the summer. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u5	President. It has now been three weeks since the council ended here. It is clear that the greater part is the target of providing a number of practical programs for the end of Congress. We see no evidence of interest in providing such a plan. We're just like the rest of the community that are going down because there's no job management, there's no perspective on priorities, whatever it is people want to be done at the end of the council this summer. So I, a respectable president, on behalf of the Left Green Team, very strongly request that we get a summer meeting schedule so that we can arrange, in particular, where we have to take care of our role in caring for the executive authority and including having a program for specific discussions, the materials are enough. I ask a respectable president to part with such a plan for the first. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u6	A respectable president. I'd like to thank the successful meetings and celebrations for the 100th year of the Women's Amendment on Friday and on the weekend and an open house here. I would also like to agree with a request that a plan be established for the summer council. Actually, I think it would be possible if they wanted to sit down and agree to complete the council. There are a number of opinions in which people can be resolved and taken along if there was a will. I don't think there's ever been a meeting in a six-day sample that there's no one willing to do anything like that. Then let us face reality. Then we'll just have to meet up here this summer. These matters probably all need time in the discussion, and then, of course, we'll have to do some work plan. [[The president calls.]] It's only polite to the House of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u7	Mr. President. It's June 22nd, which means that we've been here for more than three weeks on an adventure, if we can put it that way, and it's about to affect a person at the council when each day is more inexplicable than the previous one. So I want to take this opportunity and say what I want. Senators here have spoken. It's very important that we get to the point where we're going to take care of things this summer. The requirement is that we get a plan for the summer council. It is only natural for us to find out when the prepared questions are going to be answered, or do we need to start asking them in unprepared queries? Will there be a special discussion? Each person sees that there's no mood for action on the council, as it's been in the past three weeks. The sooner we get some vision in that regard, the better for the Generals.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u8	President. It is clear that it is difficult to negotiate some form of agreement on the end of the council, because I believe it is necessary for us to have a work programme. It is also clear that if it becomes so difficult for the president to bring a work plan to us, the members of my body simply offer me to present some kind of programme if it is so difficult for a president to do so. But it is absolutely essential that we have a routine routine to arrange for people to be organized, whether they are members of a smaller section or more of a body. We can't be here on an adventure tour, as someone mentioned earlier, on standby. It's a very bad government. That's what President knows, and the senators know the greater part, just like us in the smaller section. I challenge the President to bring up a work plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u9	Mr. President. I thank the people who were preparing and performing the celebrations during the past few days. With regard to the situation here at the council, the matter is not quite so simple, as is suggested here by those who come up and are concerned about how the matter is during the Senate work. Let us not overlook the fact that conflicts have been here on certain issues at the council that have led to the misuse of programs, such as the President's conference board for weeks has changed in recent months. The government puts the government against a wall and says: "You will not be allowed to handle this. You're not allowed to set up a frame plan because we're against it. The greater will will not be allowed to appear there. You don't get to take care of the mackerel business, and it doesn't matter if you bring some other outlets. You are not allowed to provide the Development Agency. You will not be allowed to handle this, and you will not be allowed to do the rest. We don't care what the majority of the people are doing here at the council because we're going to stop these cases from reaching votes. This is the message the government brings. Of course, humans cannot just bow to it. If there's a problem with anyone here at the council, perhaps they should look a little more at the outcome of the election and how the majority will be here at the council in specific matters. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] There is only a limit to the number of cases the government can set up against a wall, the majority of the council's will, saying, "This is out of the question. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u10	Mr. President. It's not really about the ban here at the council. It is clear that the people do not trust this institution, and they rightly do not. The majority of the council is the highest. Secretary of finance is always talking about, but what if the more part of the council wants to go against the majority of the community's parts, the ones who are actually going to lie down? They only talk about a vote every four years. It's just a very basic democracy, a very basic democracy, and the people want deeper democracy. The people of the land want things to get to them, big things. Of course, what we've been doing here is because more of the council wants to go against more of the population. Now you have 51. a person signed the challenge not to be approved at the General Assembly, and to legalize that long - term fishing resources are held in place over one year. But that's exactly what the majority of the members of the council want to do, he wants to make arrangements with the legal fishing resource, macroil, a new resource, for a longer time than one year. If this goes as the officials wish, the mackerel is inserted into the standard quota system, they've backed it in, it'll take six to thirty years to get it back to the nation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It is a provision of a fish resource, with legal requirements for longer than one year. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u11	A respectable president. Unfortunately, time did not work out so well since last Tuesday. There has been no talk of government opposition, and there have been no conferences in order to solve the situation of the council. I'm sorry. A minister of finance, as if he did not understand what the government can do through it, is about what it can do for him, as if he did not realize that this is not a matter of what the government can do through here. Rather, it is about what can be done without anyone taking advantage of his right to talk about matters at the council. That's what's at the top. The secretary of finance prefers, or so he can be understood, is that these are a case on a handstand from the council three weeks after the work programme has been completed without discussion. It is truly unacceptable to take such an angry reading from the highest point of view. Secretary of finance in this position. He must realize that we are three weeks ahead of a work schedule, and he cannot bring the issues up and down into the council and expect them to be done without discussion. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u12	A respectable president. I'll be allowed to agree with the last speaker, why. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall, because the highest. The financial minister who lived here has evidently completely forgotten that he negotiated with us to come in here with a big case after the work programme ended at the beginning of June, so we gladly accepted it because of the big issue and would like to pay for it through the council. A respectable president. The same top one. The minister of finance then stands here and casts shame on us, the opposition of the government. Are we putting up a case in June that people want to come through this month? No, we're not. It's this government that can't control the big picture, the big picture of the issues it needs and wants through. But there is one thing that is right for him; this position of government will never be allowed through a matter in which a new kind of law, the mackerel, is to be delivered into the hands of those with considerable potential. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The Gafavota system will not be available here on our watch.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u13	V.E.G. President. I come up here to inquire about the council administration. We've been here for over three weeks without schedules. There are no special discussions here, no queries can be asked for an oral response. There's hardly been a meeting on the Presidency Committee. We in the memory part are ready to stay here all summer, there's no problem, but we want a program so we can work, that we don't just have some protest program of the government classes. That's not welcome, topv. President. We're just offering a case by case, and the resistance is so great for this government. One of her deputies spoke here very largely. I would like to remind the fine minister that the government's members in this government received less than 50% vote in the last election. There are signatures where you have more than 50. a man objects to their action. There are repeated protests and the government has very little to follow. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Now I suggest that the president take control of these matters and together with the Committee for the Presidency to prepare for us. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u14	Mr. President. Like others, I want to thank the council members for its arrival on June 19th. I was about to commend the Independence Party, but I don't want to do it anymore, because I believe that it's possible to negotiate with the Independence Party. A respectable president. About the abuse of a meeting board. The minister complains that people are talking here. But as presented here, matters come way too late, way too late, and that's what the government wants to do now without discussion or at least without much discussion. That's what the 10th says. Congress, by permission of the President: The Parliamentary Parliamentary Committee organises a strategy for each assembly. And later it says that the Council's summer break is between July 1 and August 10 and that no committees should be offered at that time unless absolutely necessary. Hence, it is not surprising that we ask: Need a prime committee and a supreme committee. President assist in making a work plan? [[The president calls.]] I'm sure there are some of us here who have made plans, whether there are watch tables or schedules, and can offer our assistance. This is not easy. [[The president calls.]] Like everyone else, we have families, likely including those in this government, and we need to be organized. [[The president calls.]] You can't move on like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u15	A respectable president. Here is the position of queries for the minister of the current council, so there are 16 queries. In a normal year's trip, it would be a time for inquiry today. The 16 queries remain unsatisfactory. Besides, I'd like to say something else. I disagree with the highest degree. Secretary of finance on his understanding of democracy. I don't agree with that. I disagree with how he repeatedly suggests that the greater part, no matter what, is in control, no matter what. You see, democracy is about to make sure that the memory of the part is heard, that's what's turned, and first it's gonna be difficult, first it's gonna be challenging. Only then will it be a real project for the real government to listen to the voice of the minority part as well. When people come in with big fights like a change in a frame plan, and like the mackerel case, the smaller part will talk, he will, and he will do it, and he will do it as long as we're going to live under the name of a democracy community. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u16	A respectable president. It was nice to hear from the highest. Secretary of finance learns of the interaction of my share and much more at the General Assembly of the Icelanders. The smaller part that is present at the International Assembly of Iceland has never occurred to be like that of the then party president of the Independence Party during the last term, which appeared in front of the Court of Justice, saying: "What seven cases do you want? You can choose. This has never occurred to us. We respect majority power at the Council. But we have material reasons to demand to discuss such fundamental changes. In what way the macrotic system is organized, and whether a new species is introduced into the saying that there is wide disagreements in the community without being discussed or not. We leave ourselves the right to discuss this matter, and we feel obliged to have that view. But this is not to say that the government has a requirement to take place without any consultation with the lesser part. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We've dealt well with the problems and we're working with the government for their release. But we must insist on a serious agreement on the end of the council and that there is any promise of when the council ends. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u17	Mr. President. I'd like to inform you that, of course, there's nothing to do with being here this summer, but I'm going to take walks in the fall, so the President knows it, he will apply for permission if necessary. I was just trying to imagine that momentBenediktsson Bjarni It would be nice to hear him give such a talk about St. John's Reaping in 2010 or St. John's Reaping in 2012, but somehow I don't remember. It is true that any controversial case, large case, from the government, or rather more of it at the council, which has now been more wary than the Ministers, and is then much said, especially the head of the professional authorities, is part of the problem here than only part of it. Of course, it is clear that the government came very late with much of its affairs to the council, had to be very different. Changes made in the council have since brought this to the fore. The government groups themselves have been incontinents and are still. Because the government groups have not agreed on these matters, they still do not get prime radios out of committees. Then let's just tell that story from the top. The Secretary of Economics is here with Mexican sermons and Mass, so it's time to record the whole thing. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Isn't that right, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u18	A respectable president. I come up here for the words of the highest. The minister of finance and his understanding of how the council works or does not function, as well as his ideas of democracy that I have repeatedly criticized and others from this platform. The democracy cannot keep a single letter out of every four years to say everything you have to say about politics in the country, that's not possible, because Piratar and I have proposed fine, cheap, self-persuaded, democratic, fair, and generally good ways to settle the deepest differences at the council. That's more democracy, more honorable President. More democracy. It's not complicated. It is very easy to go that way, but instead of being stuck in these traditional Senate work. The minister of finance knows well, cannot come here, and pretend to be surprised. Hardly. It takes more democracy to settle these difficult issues. A respectable president. One last, or next, it's absolutely certain that we have at least a work plan, that's a fair claim, no matter who it is to blame. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u19	V.E.G. President. I agree with the wish for a schedule to be established for the coming days and weeks at the council. But I'd like to give my motive after a speech. Ministers of Bejana, Bjarni of Benediktsson, once again remind us of what is between theitarian powers and the democratic states of the world. What is seen as they examine the state of the Assembly? It's the government situation. It's the right of the government. It is an opportunity for people to have opinions, to get their own way, and it is intended for governments at any given time to negotiate with those who represent less part of the council. I demand that the government get together in the first place, what matters it wants to end. Second, it offers a request for what she wants to finish so that it can be discussed. Neither is present. We have kept on saying: " We want things done, but we don't want them thrown out of the program, we'll have time to finish them. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But to know the priority, we need to hear from those who are clearly in trouble convincing one another. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u20	President. There's a lot of language going on. Secretary of the budget is so sad. Amazingly sad. Especially when he's seen his work during his last terms, when it came to being in a position of government. I can't understand, Mr. President, that here is a decision to put such a fixed moment in motion when everything was in the attic last week to give people a chance to talk, but things don't happen. There's been no contact between us in Piranha and any other groups of government opposition. I'm sorry, sir, because I know that the President was trying to give space so that we might find a way to solve the deep and profound issues here at the General Assembly. But instead of looking into a part of this, it's the highest choice. Secretary of finance putting into our midst members of Congress the minority. [[The president calls.]] I just want to remind you that despite the fact that it would be late for the council, we received a very large and important welcome. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I just feel like the highest. The minister of finance is ashamed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u21	Mr. President. According to Congress, with the permission of the president, the Committee of the Presidency arranges the Senate and organises a program for each assembly. Now this program is out, and the prime committee is not planning the council. It's just not like that. The Presidency Committee has not found anything in the second week. The Presidency Committee is not planning an assembly, but the President does it alone, and does it on behalf of who? This doesn't seem to be very well kept. Of course, it is reasonable for us to have some schedule, to see how this is to be done. If we are to continue, we must have other factors, such as special discussions on the program. The minority has called for a vote, tomorrow at the beginning of a meeting or later, that we will have special discussions on the program. There is one important factor to be especially concerned about, that is the health - care crisis that has been brought up following the implementation of laws on health care professionals strike, and many are resigning. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We need to know what the situation is, we need a good discussion at the council on this and other matters. [[The president calls.]] ... we'regoingtogo on. That's good. Let's move on. The smaller portion still has its own tools. Let's just go as far as we can.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u22	A respectable president. There is Bjarni Benediktsson about the situation here. V.E.G. The president of Allegis, Einar K. Guðfinnsson, called attention to it as soon as the fall saw the need to bring in on time if they were to obtain it. The government did not, so there are a number of cases that are unsolved. To remedy this situation, the government wants a meeting this summer. It's a correct, respectable president that we have a work plan here. For example, I miss not discussing some important reports, such as the report on insurance, the report on internal Affairs and other matters waiting for the discussion and coverage that must be held at the council, as well as the number of good inquiries that are important for reaching the Ministers from that hearing should be held for weeks.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u23	A respectable president. There is always talk of this agreement at the end of a council like some horse wedding, but the reason why people are making a deal is that both government and government councilmen agree to indulge their freedom of speech in certain matters so that matters can go faster than that, that's what it's all about. That's why we take it seriously. We've been ready for this now for weeks to cooperate on how this can happen, but it's absolutely clear that such an agreement is not possible; neither is there any desire to achieve such an agreement with the government. And then we'll just say well and well, Mr. Honorable President, put together a meeting schedule, a meeting table, and start giving us a special discussion that has been requested since January and queries that would be important to come up on the agenda and stop them from thinking that this is going to be the deal. There's not going to be a deal. [[The president calls.]] Let's set up a meeting table and a work plan because it's just getting silly, respectable President. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u24	Mr. President. The time is now lost; the Bjartmar Guðlaugsson of God. I think it's very relevant these days when time is lost for the government, and men are completely confused, and they don't know what month is or day of the month. We celebrated the anniversary of women's votes and votes. Is it not true that we appoint a group of women here in an effort to take control of the council and get some action to complete the matter? Well, it seems to me that the men who are in charge here, the highest. The secretary of finance and others, here and there, with eternity in mind, should be given only to women of their own category and other classes the task of evangelizing. You can't get here in a hurry to cry that the government has spent so much time on a meeting board, and that's why the government is all over itself. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's just not like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u25	A respectable president. When there is much to say about a meeting board, it is only natural to say things about a meeting government. A word of the highest order. The secretary of finance asks us to further discuss the democratic arrangement in this country in general because it is the highest order today. Ministers mean that this is somehow an irresistibly incredulous practice on the part's smaller part. And you know what, Mr. Honorable President? All I'll say is that the Alllis's strategy in general is not necessarily as democratic as people are in the country. That's why I'm always messing around with the fact that I want more democracy for the nation of the country so that they can make their own decisions as high as possible. Minister cares so much. The less part of it is the lesser part elected during the council to employ itself, but it is not incorrigibly opposed. If this were a perfect democracy, which I realize will never be, then 40% of the council would have the 40% power and 60% of the Council would have the power, but it's not like that, a respectable president. V.E.G. A minister must know and understand. [[Up front.]] A respectable president. Again, to settle these matters, they sent to the nation, either through the smaller parts of the council or by a given rate of elections in the country. Thus we can resolve these matters peacefully without the so - called horse purchases that are held here every year. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u26	President. We must be amazed that during the six days that the council has not attended - certainly a great celebration, both the celebration of the festival day, and then the 100th anniversary of the woman's vote was glorious, yet it is surprising that time was not used in trying to reach an agreement here in the hall. I think that most of us are used to trying to finish the work that we have, even though there are holiday days in our lives and our nation. For us, it is a task to complete this council. If not, we must insist, President, on having a work plan so that we can do the usual congregational work with all that it belongs to.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u27	Mr. President. I didn't think that was a smart entry from the highest level. The minister of finance is putting all the blame on the government in the way he did, just because the government doesn't want to sit and stand and shut up like the Supreme Court. The secretary of finance shall use it all as her fault. Now, the government has reenacted over the past few days to address issues that require swift payment. We gathered here on Sundays and a financial and business committee began to move a bill to stop the blanks in the currency bill. There was an evil law against BHM and nurses in fierce opposition to government opposition, but we did not delay it, since the bill had been passed on and the damage done. And we received large currency bills long after deadlines to provide administrative products had expired, agreed to adopt them with variations and are working with great solidarity on the outworking of that matter. Is this government situation at the highest level? Is there any particular reason why a minister of finance should stumble in just because things aren't everything exactly what he wants? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I think the highest. A minister should think only of his course.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u28	Mr. President. I'd like to say that now the government situation is like barbarics, considering how the government side was during the last term. That should be the best. Secretary of finance to know the best of men. Today, we are involved in this mackerel affair, which is now no small issue, but the main part of the government feels that there can be a gap in the council as long as three weeks have passed since the end of the council, after more than 51 of you have arrived. signatures that should be used only for one year. No, it's supposed to run through this bill as a mackerel share site to the future, thank you. It's this little thing we're supposed to let go through like that. Of course, that is not possible. The subject is to be discussed in the winter when all these issues are under way. Government opposition cannot be expected to allow something so unfashioned.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u29	Mr. President. It's like every time you say something here, you try to pull and stretch what you've been saying. I have called attention to the fact that the will of the greater part of the council needs to be done on a large scale. They say I want to shove my share. That's not true. It's just a whole different thing. There are a number of cases that have been well prepared in committees throughout the winter, which have not been on the program. Because this has been the case with a discrepancy. It must be recognized. Men have almost repeatedly accepted the fact that they are not going to continue speaking because of a filibuster. It's just that simple. About the right memory of the object. I can quite agree with that. A senator who came up here said we should develop our democracy more in the direction of a direct democracy. But what will be the right of the memory of the section when the vote for a solid democracy will be paid nationally? What will be the rights of the 40% under? [[The president calls.]] It's just going to be underneath. That is also true in the case of a representative democracy. That's the way it's always been here. If a man votes, it's more of the part that eventually wins in a vote. [[The president calls.]] Exactly like a direct democracy.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u30	Mr. President. It's a problem with this democracy, the democracy, because it suits some just sometimes and sometimes it doesn't. In this case, as we have discussed, it is important that a large number of cases go to the nation more often than ever before. V.E.G. Ministers are frustrated because we're not doing a big thing, we're doing it, and we're doing it right. We have acknowledged it, and I am not ashamed to speak here in red death on matters that I am not at all pleased with passing through the council. It is my right to prevent a case that I consider to be bad from what the government class of the Council considers. That's how it is when the government groups don't want to change constitution, now at the highest level. The secretary of finance, who was in the last government opposition to know, stood, even standing. To prevent this, and the Independence Party, they did not want and did not want the resource regulations and other things into the constitution, and they used it very strongly. That's their right. That's not wrong, chief. Minister of state. [[The president calls.]] That was repeated here. Among other things, it was what my present partner wanted to negotiate on a table like many other things. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u31	A respectable president. I just wanted to close at the end that, of course, the government can go through the council with all the issues she dreams of going through. She just needs to come out early. They need political treatment... [[Up front.]] These dates are published, topv. Secretary of finance, at the beginning of Congress. They know exactly which dates these are. [[Up front.]] We're dealing with a case long after that date. It's those things that block everything up here. So, of course, they knew what they were going to do when they brought remarkable changes in the frame plan. Among the still remaining issues, which will be settled and negotiated, what will be the value of the protection laws now intended for the month - to - month conventions. I made a special trip to the Environment Ministry last week, and I went to a meeting of environmental ministers to express my opinion on how it would have to be done, what treatment would be desirable, and I'm sure people would talk about it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] What has happened since then? Nothing. It hasn't even been sent an e - mail, not a phone call, not a text message, to decide where the sequel will be. [[The president calls.]] It's just not acceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u32	A respectable president. I can't quite figure out how to give this speech. Secretary of finance here, under the discussion. I haven't had it so far in conversation that he was the principal bottleneck on the case or that he was the control base and the highest. A minister may find it difficult to achieve a mutual understanding of what was normal and fair in the relations of government and government opposition. There's been other persistent ones in that street, to be taken into account. However, it is clear to each individual that a government that does not wish to discuss with the government for six whole days about how it can best handle its affairs cannot, of course, expect that it will present matters that she does not speak with anyone about how to act. The premise is the ultimate one. Secretary of the budget, talking to each other.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u33	To answer these questions, Prime Ministers, Economic and Economic Ministers, Health Ministers, Education and Culture Ministers, Industrial and Business Ministers, Social and Housing Ministers, Marine Elimination and Agriculture Ministers, Environmental and Resource Ministers and Internal Affairs Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u34	A respectable president. After the government sector made the disturbing decision to administer legalization to strikes more than a week ago, it has happened that a large number of 200 nurses have quit their jobs. Earlier, about 20% of midwives had obtained confirmation of education in order to look elsewhere for jobs, and radioists have been on a strike for weeks. Member States BHMs and nurses will not be able to detect large movements in negotiations. It was given time to a month's match to make deals. That's why I want to ask the highest. Prime Minister of what orders the government has given to the Convention Committee. Has the government made any difficulty in extending the negotiations of the state to achieve agreements with nurses and with BHM members now while there is still a chance? I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister also: Where do the statements of the agreements he made with the doctors in January show that there are no additional financial provisions to the health system at any time, whether in a national budget or in any proposal at the General Assembly of the Icelanders? Have they been handed over to the superior authorities or made aware that they have additional funds. Finally: What is your highest plan? When the health - care system is upset, do the prime minister take the initiative to deal with the terrible situation that has come up? All our warnings have been correct. [[The president calls.]] It was a very bad step to enter the national legislation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u35	A respectable president. Hv. A senator knows how treaties work in a public employment market. Ministers are not on day-to-day meetings with negotiaters or order that these changes or others should be made. There are a series of main points that will be followed by a government contract board. There have been some main lines of agreements, not only in public markets, but in public markets as well. The main lines are that we want to continue to increase the level of money - we want to keep on increasing real money, including the cost of money. so that classes like nurses can be better elected and moved to continue working in the country. There is no solution to the promotions that result only in increased inflation, economic instability, and the low prevalence for all groups. Hence, since negotiations were reached in general markets, there was, in fact, evidence of what could be done in contracts and, fortunately, a very high level of money gain can be achieved, including for health groups, especially in particular. We are talking about percent that are far, far beyond what people see anywhere else. Nowhere else in Europe, especially in the North countries, can you expect a similar amount of pay, as it is being offered in Iceland. Happily, most of these elevations seem to result in a real increase in financial resources. We will not now sacrifice it by destroying the achieved benefits, destroying it by placing the inflation on the slopes and the economy on our side. We will protect ourselves from the power of money for every class in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u36	A respectable president. V.E.G. One prime minister does not hold back from making such a decision by the government. V.E.G. The prime minister gave a line in January when the agreement was made with doctors and declarations regarding increased health - care funding and the agreement with physicians would be made on certain grounds because they were important to the health system. Other classes, large groups of women, who are important to the health system, do not experience similar agreements and solutions today. I must reiterate my inquiry to the highest level. Prime Minister: Where's the money at the highest? The prime minister promised in January in the preparation of the health system? Where does it take place in a government budget? Where does it take them for a proposal here? In what way you intend to go to the highest. The prime minister ensures that health - care services in his country work as we look at reports he must take responsibility for? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u37	A respectable president. I'm pointing out what. In fact, a senator's opinion is that he must have already seen, that contributions to health, including the Land Hospital, have never been so great today. After a massive cutdown during the last terms of 30 billion dollars. Not only have we made up that cut but we have had the compensation that the contributions have never been as high as today. The government will, of course, be able to live up to the agreements it has made about continuing health care systems because it will not be possible after the completion of the final terms. As for the situation of nurses, I hope and begging health care professionals in general to take part in increasing the level of money and achieving the greatest rewards these classes or any other class have been facing in Iceland for decades.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u38	Mr. President. During the dawns, the joyous news came at the height of the day. The prime minister would have been selected into a group of ten national leaders who would lead a new project, HeForShe, an assignment on gender equality by the UN Women. I wish to the highest. The prime minister is happy about this. The project, including the project, says on the Presidency Department website, that these leaders have all committed themselves to dealing with differences in sex rights, but Iceland's commitments, including the removal of pay in Iceland for 2022, equal the share of the sexes in the media for 2020, and get more men to join the international and international equality struggle. This is the best of matters, a positive assignment, and a joy to hear the highest. One of the ten national leaders to take the lead in this work is the prime minister. Part of the project is basically bridgeing the gap between the sexes when it comes to paying. The target is set on 2022, so it's seven years away. There's a lot of pay differences in the sex population in Iceland, 5.7 to 18.3% on the homepage of the project itself, and I would like to ask the highest. Prime Minister, how to achieve this goal. It says that everyone should be consulted, the public, the private sector, rural areas, state and whatever, but how is the highest? When it comes to large groups of women, would the prime minister consider reaching this goal? Of course, I mention it because it has recently been passed on to the function of one of such women's classes, nurses. It's the highest. ▪ The prime minister, who is the head of this project and thus the government will use specific measures to increase the pay of women's classes in order to eliminate gender pay? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u39	A respectable president. I have long spoke of men trying to raise the wages of the classes that have fallen back from other classes. Sadly, there are quite a number of classes that are sometimes called women's classes because women are there in the greater part, with relatively and often very low wages. It is absurd, however, to argue that legislation on a strike has something to do with a certain level of gender in the affected class, as if it were a special law on men when laws were passed on to aviators, pilots, or sailors. It must be the common objective of all of us to improve the ideals of the community and in the case of women's classes. A senator calls it this way, having extra sheets, must be our goal in particular. It should be encouraging to work to achieve such goals in view of a significant increase in the recent loss in Iceland and has, in fact, been more than ever. In the past of this government, equations have continued to increase, income balance has increased, and poverty has declined. There are fewer and fewer groups of people who feel that they have low incomes to support such basic needs that they have certainly achieved a lot of results, and there are results to build on. We will continue to do so. During the last government meeting, the government adopted a program for a sensory economy that will include such factors. V.E.G. A societal minister has introduced some measures to further the equal rights of the sex and to work on sexual wages, so it is a project that we must be able to work together and work in all our resources. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u40	Mr. President. I think it's right to say that I didn't say anything about a law being passed on a nurse's strike because it was a women's class. V.E.G. The prime minister saw reason to correct this, but of that I did not say. However, I have serious doubts that such laws serve the ultimate purpose. The prime minister has set an international level of sexual pay in Iceland. It's not just me who's talking about nurses as a women's class. We just have to look at their gender ratios as they are. We know very well that there are women in the greater part, and that is what nurses have suggested in their struggles, that their wages have fallen back from similar classes, and that they mention this as one for potential reasons. I think that sooner, as they say in this world, we accept the problem, it's easier to deal with it. That's why I reiterate my question to the highest level. Prime Minister. He is correct in saying that income distribution has increased. That work was not least done by the last government, as can be seen from 2014 numbers, but how is the Supreme Court going to do so? Would a prime minister work to eliminate this sex - income wage? [[The president calls.]] Does he think that there is something special to do for those classes where women are in much greater and therefore are often called women's classes, not just the one that stands here, but the common people in the community?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u41	A respectable president. Remuneration for those classes as well as for others. A senator calls the women's classes a significant increase in their final losses. The pay of teachers was substantially increased, and the pay of nurses and other health groups is now expected to be very significant. Comparison with doctors because of what? A senator mentioned this, showing that nurses are in the same position as doctors in the past ten years. And that is before today's growths, i.e. After the rise of doctors to tens of percent, and before there is an increase in nurses, the pay rate of these classes is comparable in view of the past ten years. Therefore, this should be viewed as an opportunity to continue improving the benefit of this group of women. There's nothing of it, we must agree on it, and here we are going to take a huge step to do that. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u42	A respectable president. That's what they say, at least On holidays, education pays, and you want to say in good conscience to your children that it pays to educate, and you want to live in such a society. I think it's wise to have society so that people are somehow rewarded for education and knowledge, and that we get more valuable things in society and a more healthy and beautiful society, but all of this feels like I'm in danger in Iceland. A survey was now being compared with other European countries to whether university education will result in higher pay. We come last of all, a university education pays itself in a higher salary than any other level of education in Iceland of all European countries. So there are tools on it in Iceland whether it pays to seek education and whether people are really rewarded for that investment. I think we're looking up at a society now that is marked by people simply seeing and experiencing it on their own. For a long time, the Union of college has been in the main workforce, pointing out that there is not enough power left in Iceland to try to develop a wide variety of society and a variety of careers that reward education. There is concern that the motivation for education may no longer be abundant enough in Iceland. Of course, there should not be too much gap between people when it comes to education, but there should be some space in which people see their interests in education. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of Education whether he is not concerned about these numbers, how to pray, and what his view of this problem is.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u43	A respectable president. I can mostly say I'm worried about what. foreground on how pay is paid for education. However, it is vital that we try to discern what is going on. It's just what we talked about before, there's been a tremendous increase in Iceland in terms of a decrease in income gap. Actually, I heard why. One senator noted that, of course, there is a need to be careful that this is in moderation, i.e. While the difference between those who receive a high income because of education and others, these results show that the difference between those who receive education and those who do not. This goes exactly with the results we see about the Giini, it's now at a historic minimum in Iceland, I looked it up under the debate of both. Senator. It stands at 22.7 degrees, which is very low in all international comparisons. It hangs together. Of course, I believe they need to consider factors like the composition of our university education. Where are the currents, what are we learning, and how does it benefit us into today's economy? And then there's as good as that. A senator rightly mentioned, and is for the consideration, the development of our economic, the economy. Are we making good use of education? The nature of the matter is much of our economic activity dependent on the export of raw goods, but it has also been a growing array of scientific activities around our basic working roads, such as the seabed, in which the factor grows and is a source of value based just on science and knowledge. I'm going to allow myself, a respectable president, to be optimistic in this regard, but I completely agree. There's a senator who's really in the eye, and he's worried about us.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u44	A respectable president. It is good to know, though, that the highest. Minister is concerned about this, as another strange thing would be. I think there's a reason to be really worried about this without me going to some competition with the highest concerns. Minister. I simply think we're in an international competition for educated workers. It is bad economic model for society to be educated at costs, available for education, in our case for a free education in many cases, and then fail to have a society that accepts and rewards this education so that workers are looking to foreign countries. We are naturally seeing this now, an educated labor force is looking for something else, since they earn a lot more money for their education. That hurts. We're costing our education, and people are going to a foreign country and paying taxes there. Just because of that narrow economic point, it's not gonna work. [[The president calls.]] There has to be some broad plan of action, I think, in order to increase the value of education in a labour market in Iceland and it needs to be published.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u45	A respectable president. This too is cultural. We are the people who made the saying that the writing would not be in the asparagus. Sadly, that thought has long been endemic, but I think it's changing. I once again suggest that we may also have to be ready to look at the structure of our university system, what we are learning, and how our education will benefit from the entire community. It should not be forgotten that education itself gradually changes society, not just the way society is responding. I'd also like to draw attention to the fact that with what we're doing right now in regard to a short study course to a student test, we're increasing the biography of those who walk educated by going from a four-year system into a three-year system. That is why BHM emphasized in its academic policy that it was done. This means that the income of educated people will increase at that rate. That step on its own is important to what is right. A senator brings up here, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u46	A respectable president. Here is a subject that, in my opinion, would require more time, such as so many others at the High General Assembly. I'd like to speak to the highest. Minister of Internal Affairs on the grounds of a top-secret surveillance of the public. Now people must agree that people have the right to know if they are being watched. The case of hidden surveillance cameras is simply forbidden in Iceland, which, of course, should be the case. However, there are quite a number of cases in which cover-up surveillance by uncharacterized police officers is normal. I want to go to the highest. A minister by her view of the basis for such supervision. Then I'd like to discuss a particularly recent festival, Secret Sostice, where there was something about an unidentified police officer, and even one gentleman who thought that there was something like a policeman in the appearance of a man accused of being an unidentified policeman. Now we live at the time when cameras are on the phone, so people can take pictures of one another, and therefore the city's suspicions toward one another may be increased by such methods, especially in my opinion, if actions are not required by some major public interest or, at least, a well - defined public interest. It was drug surveillance, I suppose, but I haven't exactly confirmed it, but it's the norm for the use of these techniques. I think it's important that we conduct the civil rights conference like theirs to know when you're being observed for the public.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u47	A respectable president. I think in these things we must take care of what I am and what I have. A senator has discussed, for example, that there must always be a balance between our civil rights, which we hold in honor and the rest, to be careful for the safety of our cities. It is always these two things that we need to be weighed on, and it really matters how we feel when we build up our community. I see why. So a senator is specifically asking when officers do their jobs and are not wearing uniforms. Under certain circumstances, the police may have to be able to act without wearing uniforms to maintain law and order. This was a reference to the festival that took place in the Valley of Saturday this weekend. I think it went well. I couldn't see any better. In fact, I live on the next street, at least watching the music that was heard from the valley that weekend. I think it went very well. I think it's very important not to be afraid of it, though the police are engaging in such open festivals. It is not to do anything but to maintain a measure of security toward all, those who are guests at the festival, and even if there may be some sort of transgression in some individuals, who can always be and who are always there and anywhere in society. I think this is where we need to be careful that the police have the right to do their job and not worry that the police are not wearing uniforms under some circumstances. I don't think it can be the focus of what we're playing out here but primarily this: Could the police begin their march in order to keep the country safe?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u48	A respectable president. I can't object to that, at least not the last one as the highest. Minister said. Then, too, we need to ask ourselves this political question: When have we decided that safety is threatened? For example, I wondered, " Why do police officers have to wear uncharacterized clothing during such a festival to be safe? ' If a man goes mad, a policeman does not have to dress uncharted in order to come to the scene and deal with that situation. Likewise, if you're super-slash, it's not enough for him to hide the chef, it's still supersonic, and it's usually obvious. I don't see exactly what is needed to justify uncharacterized police officers during the holidays like this, except that the political atmosphere has been that for a few decades, when it comes to using drugs, police officers may do everything, soon disappearing civil rights. That's why I'm making this up. What if the offense is not serious enough to make it simply necessary for an unidentified policeman to find out that it has been committed? How can such a violation be considered so serious that it justifies such actions?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u49	A respectable president. It is not a political question whether it is permitted to do drug sales in this country. There are laws in place in the country, and the police are monitoring that they are honored. It is not up to politicians to decide that it is in some other way unless they change the law. The way is then to change the law. However, this is the role of the police, and it must have been trusted by men and has had the confidence to enforce and maintain laws and order. I think it's important that people aren't afraid of what the police do in the way they feel right. I can't agree with that with what. On the contrary, a senator said that the police had gone too far in some situation during the outdoor festival held in the Valley of Saturday during the week. On the contrary, he was being careful that things would be done quietly. I think it worked, and then I'll say the police job was successful.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u50	V.E.G. President. Over the past two decades and beyond that, the Icelandic nation has been in formation against the marine ecology system, and there has been a great debate over how fishing management should be done and how the resource is treated and what its use will be paid. Now at this spring council, there's a lot of debate over how to complete a mackerel bill. Just when that bill first appeared, the worst defects of the system were revealed. On one hand, the system was closing and dividing it down on certain parties, i.e. share the system, saying close it completely so that others don't get into it. On the other hand, the bill originally allowed exposition, which meant that those handmen who received distribution in the mackerel were allowed to exploit it themselves. One of the points presented by the Commission of Peace and has repeatedly been made up of discussions at the council is that if anyone settles for this category, it is important to accept the national request that the resource directive come into the Constitution and to have the clear answer to whether it is at the highest level. The prime minister does not accept his previous claim, which was made in response at the General Assembly, that it is important to set a rules of resources in the constitution. At the same time, it is important to ask the highest question. Prime Minister, because he is the head of the Board of Directors and appoints a chairman, what he has done to ensure that he will obtain the law that was accepted with a huge amount of observation during the preparation of the Constitution. I think this is important because we need to look ahead and get out of the mess we're in. I'd like to hear the president's viewpoint as the foreman of this government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u51	A respectable president. Thank you for a very nice question on a very important subject. It is true that one of the priorities mentioned in the Commission reviews is to consider in particular and in excess of other aspects to begin with, such a priority, the so-called resource directive. We have been very direct about that in this government, and especially in my category, we want to see such provisions in the constitution and have encouraged those who are doing this work, whether it represents the greater part or others, in order to conduct their work in order to put this matter first. In fact, a direct increase in democracy has also been mentioned as a priority. I can answer a question why. A senator, definitely. I think it's very important that these regulations go to the constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u52	V.E.G. President. I appreciate your answer. Prime Minister. I think it's very important that he fights for this case and push it forward. I'd like to ask the highest. To this end, the prime minister is only precise. It was a poll of a specific wording on the resource policy. Is it not true that the prime minister supports the arrangement, as it was stated there? However, I would like to ask the highest. The prime minister, in view of the priority given to the so - called Syndicate Committee for Resources in the Constitution. This has been called on by everyone, and now more than 51 thousand have been signed under the requirement to enter this command before making any other decision regarding the continuation of the seabed. Is it not reasonable in the context of a man's waiting with a mackerel bill in the form it has come in and taking this law specifically into account as an attempt to settle matters? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u53	A respectable president. V.E.G. A marine minister has made it clear that if he considers what is just the best way to start, he should concentrate on reaching the resources into his constitution before he finishes a fish management law or at the same time that new fish control laws take into account that such provisions go to a constitution. This does not change because the indications and restrictions that have come from failure to share the mackerel as the last government should have, in fact, done. The agent of the Generals has been explicit in not finding pleasure in the same condition, so to speak. A secular minister has been responding to what would have been needed a few years ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u54	The President has received the following program proposals and the following letters: ▪ We signed it, making our suggestion in line with 1st. 77st. Conventional protocol that the next meeting will be as follows: 1st Unprepared queries. 2. The situation in the labour market, the oral report of the prime minister. 3. Special discussion of insurance. A verbal vendetta, Sigríður Ingadóttir, answers to the question of prime minister, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson. 4. Special discussion of planned tax changes and balance in the community. Painting is Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, and to answer, the minister of finance and economics is Bjarni Benediktsson. 5. Specific patient safety reports following the number of healthcare professionals reported. An apocalyptic, by Jón Þór Ólafsson, to counter this issue, will be the minister of health, Kristján Þór Júlíusson. We would like this proposal to be presented for release in accordance with the above terms of engagement. Under this letter, Katrín Júlíusdóttir, Jón Þór Ólafsson, and Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir. This proposal will be served at a later meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u55	A respectable president. The president was repeatedly asked about a new strategy because of the confusion of the Senate work. I miss the fact that the president responds to his wish, and the request reasoned that both members of the council and others here have some definitions of the work ahead of us. [[Up front.]] It would also be a pleasure to know whether somewhere on that project was a kitchen day, whether the president thinks we're going to get some sort of race on that day, whether we're going to get some sort of preparation to do it. I'm a little curious also about how generally late the kitchen day has been, i.e. whether we have an example of a kitchen date in the middle of a summer. Does the president have any examples of such a thing? This may have made arrangements for him to reach his original goal of being a conversation and a resolution about the assembly in the open language and in conversation with the nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u56	The president still wants to hold on to his firm hope that there will be a short period of action here, so the president has not considered a reason to set up a new strategy for the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u57	A respectable president. I lived in the same fantasy world as the President. Based on what he says here, he hopes that things will all happen now, I lived in the same dream world until the weekend when I realized that there is no one willing to negotiate the way the Senate works. So that means we have to get a work plan. You can't keep dreaming, it's been three weeks, it's getting embarrassing. It's not just embarrassing for a president, it's embarrassing for all of us. Then it is best to face reality, set a work plan, and start here as normal people. Besides, it's not working anymore, for example this morning we could've been able to use our time by meeting on a major environmental and transport committee. We did not because there is no set of meetings, and there is no work plan to do so that our time would not be any good. I'm asking for it, I'm done wishing it, I'm asking the president to put in a work plan and admit it to himself and to the rest of us that he's failed in trying to complete this council. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u58	A respectable president. If this were a television program, everyone would now be wondering, " What next? ' Or rather, is this just supposed to be the way it is? Nothing's supposed to happen? Because there must be some development in these narratives. Why don't we just go back to the same tire tracks? And hope that this is how things work out? I've believed that if you're ready to talk, all the issues can be solved, but obviously you're not ready to do that. This is not the time to gather human government and government, cross the situation, and wonder how much is needed and how it can be solved. This isn't the first time it happens. In one way or another, whole weeks are left in the sand. You're wondering if the government and the government are waiting for us in my part to come to their home to resolve these issues, that we just come and knock on and say, "Look, I've come here a very good suggestion, we'll just accept everything from you and not talk about anything in any matter, and everything will go through here, and everything will be in the heavens. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] What's to happen next, respectable President?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u59	President. It's really just kind of funny in its ironic and sad way that we're here in the fourth week after the work program ended asking to have some frame around our jobs, to pray that we can organize our work. We're elected here at the council. We represent our voters, and we cannot do our duty. I think it's a really awkward situation. I don't understand how -- maybe it's just a lack of experience, none of those who are now ministers has been before, and perhaps they don't understand the responsibility of having the great responsibility they have, the directors of the administrations. It doesn't mean, Mr. President, always going against the one who stretched out his hand, but we have repeatedly made peace. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u60	A respectable president. It's one thing to insist that these and the other sessions be held at this and the other time, one is to demand that some particular matter be settled, for it's probably a plan, I feel, once things are in this situation. It's clear that the members of my section are assuming to stay here for the summer, we're actually assuming the summer council, at least I assume because I don't see how to solve this knot. It is not my experience that it will take a short time to resolve a conflict like that once again. So plan is totally self-recognized. In this workplace, when there is a work plan in force, it is difficult enough to figure out how to plan your time here. It's completely impossible, it's really hopeless to plan your time when there's no working plan. I would at least be polite to bring a work schedule, so we can at least sort of plan our time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u61	A respectable president. It is reasonable to agree with the wishes that have been made to work here on some kind of schedule. It must now apply to the council, such as the general government agencies, that there is a program here for the operation, that there are some policies on how the operation should be conducted, and when individual matters should be completed, as is the case with the government's institutions. After his head, his penis dances, and it can't be a good thing to manage if the council is to hang around here in thin air without anyone knowing what's ahead, what the plan is. Therefore, there is reason to urge the president to put aside emergency treatments in order to set up a work plan for the current summer council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u62	A respectable president. I'm not interested in living in a la-land with the highest. President. I'd like to ask the president to tell us how they're gonna conduct this summer so that we can have a conversation with our families because they just want us to be people, we have families. I have four children that I have made promises for the summer, and I can start reorganizing with them. All we're asking for is: Start a work plan as soon as possible so we can start planning in the summer, because this is not how it works. It may well be that in the fall of some strange word, the board of directors finds it quite exciting to show us that he can now hold the council in the fall if he wants to. Yeah, yeah, we've all got it. But, a respectable president, still put in a work plan to work here on a plan. It's completely below all the caves. I'm waiting for the highest. President getting into reality with the rest of us out of the laland he lives in. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u63	A respectable president. I'm not surprised if the President slips into individual materials when we're in here well into the summer. It's stated in 1 0.... Congress at 3 mg. about a summer break, then, says, with President's permission: Since July 1 to August 10, no committee shall be called back at that time unless absolutely necessary. - Unless it's absolutely necessary. July 1st is next week, and I don't think it would be overreaching if a respectable president let us know where he draws the line to which it is clearly necessary. I guess that would fit, for example, the conditions of a financial and business committee that have to do with the oceans. But I ask about other issues that have been on the list here in progress between government and government situation, including Prime Minister's bill on the flag of the nation
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u64	President. I think it is very important that the more part of it becomes aware that, while it puts us on a table every day when it is being considered on a matter at the council and then goes out, it will be difficult for the greater part to disappear, for we will make sure that there will be a program of adaptation proposals that will call for more of the event to attend the council to participate in the Senate. I know that many of the council's employees who are supposed to have certain rights have not been able to take their summer leave at their appointed time. I think it's very pathetic. I'd like to say that more of the council is entirely responsible. Besides, I just think it's okay to consider that we senators are human beings as well as our families. I don't think it's too busy that we can't plan our vacation, if we're supposed to get some time off, that we can at least say to our children, "There's going to be no vacation in the summer." [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u65	Mr. President. Of course, this is a challenge if the foremanless government is not compatible, and much less mature to converse with the council or the smaller part here at the council, then, of course, it's hard to get it together. But what can the Generals do when it is time for the frame to go, which is usually our work here, paragraph 10. The council divides this into the autumn council, the winter and the spring council from Qumil week till the end of May? The box has a summer break from July 1 to August 10, specifying how a work programme is developed so that people know the days of the assembly, days of committees, etc. If it's all screwed up, what could the General do? Then I think people must sit down and write some plan B. Now that we've been meeting at the Presidency Committee. In effect, I request that we find a member of the Presidency Committee and discuss, for example, the possibility of starting a temporary program for the next two to three weeks, and the government will then be informed of what it will be if it is unable to try to solve the situation on its own terms. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u66	A respectable president. It is often critical that the smaller part speaks a lot about the President's conference board. It can be different when it is completely clear from the language and the language at its highest level. In view of the important issues we need to meet here and discuss both on committees and during conference meetings, if we can't even get a plan? Then I wondered what to promise a government over the high Council, and especially I wondered who is in charge. If it's the highest. For example, the President of the General Assembly, who is in charge of himself and of the council, is able to establish a temporary schedule for a particular time just so that we know what to do in the morning, important when you have a little time. At least you want to know what happens tomorrow. I don't think that's a very high requirement. I'm sure it's. And I think a respectable president has the duty to answer this question with a simple yes- that there will be a plan for work to be submitted. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u67	A respectable president. I believe that under these forces, there have been many excellent reasons for what is common in other working places in the country, that it is the right and duty to inform members of the Parliament how they should continue their employment if they are to continue. So in the autumn, the president declared that if government ministers did not bring up the matter in time, they would not have to expect that it would be done. Now, whether the president meant what he said to the Senate and restrict counsellors to how late and with how neglected the cases they can bring into the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u68	Mr. President. I saw under the pink peak. Minister of Education here a few minutes ago. I was glad that he came here for a meeting because when this discussion was released, about a week ago, a loud call was made for his stand. Of course, this is because it needs to be applied to the highest level. Minister of why he does not bring himself a bill on music instruction and funding a music school in the country. Why is that so? The Minister of Education and Cultures has the World Education and Education Committee deliver a bill that is redundant to save what will be saved and prevent its failure, even the failure of a number of music schools? V.E.G. A minister has probably had two years to establish his own policy and a vision of this lawsuit. He hasn't. True, it shines from a distance to the highest. Minister has settled down on policy in the case. However, it does not seem to be able to withstand daylight or light in the halls because it has not been introduced to members of the council. I went a long way ahead of me, and I said, "Why?" paritaprevir An Unnur Brá Konráðsdóttir here ten days ago, when she with great prowess recommended this bill, that the future course would be clearly identified in this matter. Hv. paritaprevir Unnur Konráðsdóttir Konásdótsdótttir, chairman of the Committee that presents this matter jointly, said that this case was redundant. I'm gonna let myself repeat what another senator said on this matter and hope I don't walk too close to the fine shades of taste. A president, but the one who did it. A senator called it a piece of shit. Of course, that's true. It's a piece of shit and nothing more. At one time, an agreement was made between the government and the local community on how to deal with a crisis that arose because rural communities were set free from the movement of music schools. At that time, an agreement was made. This involved suggesting that the 4,80 billion mercenaries were brought to the party. K. to study music. Hv. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, who was then the highest. Education minister, had a preemption. That was 250 million. K. new ones, but the rural community took on projects that cost nothing but legal and illegal, up to 230 million. K. In other words, the first government put in new 250 million. K. on this matter. Hence, lovers of music schools, both parents and children, were delighted to attend these schools. Even those of us who have been in the past and who have even lived elsewhere but in Reykjavík, 101, know that even the music schools in the country are a source, a source, and the main core of culture. There is no part of creation that attracts as many people as the music schools do. There are places in the country where music schools were, in effect, prepared for the cultural reputation of the local community. I only mention my old town of Iceaf as a farm for decades as one of the main cultures in the country because it was a very powerful music school. If this cannot be placed on a permanent foundation, I fear that music schools are being supported and that they simply do not have a future. As the situation is now, it is absolutely clear that if not agreed on the bill presented here as a redundancy, they will face bankruptcy and possibly failure of many of these schools. That's why it's normal to go to the highest level. The Minister of Education is moving this bill much more than the committee that takes it to save the highest. Minister of shame and shame and prayer for the local community. I feel at least at the lowest. A minister of education comes into the hall and realizes how he has decided that there is no policy in these matters that the High Council has enjoyed. I recall that the original agreement was made in 2011 when the so - called living room came into existence. During that time, after a crisis, the city of Reykjavík did not trust to receive students for music studies in music schools that she paid for without paying them. That was understandable. The government of that time understood this, so in 2011 these changes of law were attacked, resulting in 250 million new ones coming to the seminar. This agreement has since been extended, and it is being extended once more. At one time, at the end of the last terms, the present was the highest. A minister of education had shaped and introduced a new course. It was a course that could have been built permanently. Earlier it could not be done, including because there was no information. The database on which the music schools were based found to be poorly equipped for the lack of information about the number of students, so some schools received less of their share than they really were. The policy was introduced, and in the spring of 2013, no one spoke against her. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, introduced her. Well, you can't, can you? The Minister of Education launched behind the fact that he had no policy because the Ministry was then equipped with this bill. On the other hand, it is perfectly understandable if the highest. Minister wants to go some other way. But he needs to tell us where that path is. It seems that he did not have the strength or space to take care of policy in this area. That's why it is. A top-of-the-art Board of Education runs under a tab, takes over the corners with the Minister and rescues him in this matter. The committee does, as I told you earlier, in the local local local local saying in order to prevent an emergency in music schools. I'm grateful for that. The committee's chairman, Unnur Brá Konráðsdóttir, who made this case and immediately dismissed the situation. I believe, however, that we are required to get an explanation from the highest level. Secretary of education why he is not prepared for his course. Perhaps, Mr. President, that was the ultimate intention. A minister of education, when a very controversial trend was seen to wait for a presentation to be completed by the General? We, as noted in the discussions about the council just before, were to be a long time ago from the council halls. That was at the height of it. A minister was going to study his policies on these matters? The fact is, the course to take is the highest. According to vague reports from the media, a minister has not found himself anywhere in the soil. It involves, Mr. President, in effect, cutting off a local music school and using the funds that the government has placed in their behalf to set up one central school for music in Reykjavík. This is at least the news that humans have received. If it's wrong, I feel like I'm at the top. A minister should clean the air and tell us how to split these problems in the future. I've said that while what I think is right about the council, before it ends for a vacation, to accept this bill, it's impossible to go to the top. Ministers come and tell us how he will conduct his policy and his government with music schools in the future. True, I can see why. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir has asked for the highest court. A minister of education to see what future course he intends to follow. I don't think that's enough. I feel like the highest. The Minister of Education is here for this discussion to help us appreciate who he intends to follow the music program in the future. Now that the council comes and saves my affairs, I feel that I have an obligation and a natural demand on my part as a senator who has the benefit of the music schools, who know them from their own experience as the parent of two girls who have been successful students and for all in such schools to know this. Mr. President. Is it possible to make an issue as to whether it's at the highest level? The Minister of Education is in the house?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u69	The president sees it at the top of the world. The Minister of Education is not in a house.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u70	That's very sorry, Mr. President. I'm not going to let go of my routine and I'm going to insist on doing the best I can. Ministers come here to the conference exactly now, but the other would like to state clearly that I thought it would be a mistake to see below the pale pink peak. A minister as soon as this discussion began. V.E.G. The minister was here before unprepared queries, and this matter is first planned. I would have thought it normal that he was here, and I realized the state of these matters to the council. Finally, Mr. President. The agreement was made in 2011 to save a very narrow situation. That meant a new 250 billion. K. came to the fore of a mid - stage singing study, an advanced level of singing and playing musical instruments. It saved what was saved for the music school back then. Since then, this agreement has been extended. Then, too, there is the fact that a previous minister of education had developed a policy in the language that had a great deal of understanding and desire for those of the music schools. I don't recall any man telling her at a convention. That is why I feel that it is only natural for the current government to tell the Council and the people behind the music schools in the country and the students who study there where they will go in the future. Mr. President. Just to be said out loud, it's going to be the highest. Education minister of music to land in a certain country literally make up one central music school in Reykjavík? Now I believe that the State needs to share in the cost of higher music, just as in other subjects. I believe art should be equal in all other studies. I have nothing against it, and I think it's worth a lot if it's the best. A minister aims to create and build one large school to receive and make students even better. In my previous speeches, I told of people like the Víkingur Man of Heiðar Ólafsson pianist, one of our outstanding fruits of the Icelandic music program, who had much good to say about it. So I'm not going to shut down anything in advance, but the other thing I have to say, Mr. President, I will never agree that the local music school is literally stopped. I'd like to conclude, Mr. President, that as soon as I declare my support to this bill, I don't think it's possible to accept it until the highest level. A minister of education has put the cards on the table and told us how he will solve this matter in the future. Will he solve it by getting his money out by borrowing funds for the music schools in the country? I don't think that's an option.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u71	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a good speech. I'd like to take this opportunity and agree with the demands he made here. We had this conversation last week, and that demand came to the top. A minister of education would come here and explain his vision of the music schools. I'd like to agree with that requirement as a matter of course. A senator will submit and order that the president be asked to see if he has the highest power. Ministers can come here and be at the discussion. As mentioned in my talk on this subject less than a week ago, I support the matter, but at the same time I believe it is very difficult for the council to resolve the matter without the prospect of the future. What I want to do. A senator's view of that future is still open to him. I considered it in my language that I had long felt that it was reasonable for the State to take care of the posts in music like the general school system, but the solution offered in the bill presented in the spring months of 2013 would have been such a compromise, i.e. The state, by law, committed itself to strengthening the rural communities to pursue into the advanced stage but would not take up the advanced stage as such and would run it. This, then, was primarily such a practical approach in view of the fact that the country's future is being spread throughout the country and that higher levels are in many schools. That would have called for quite a change. Now we're hearing about the highest. Rather, the State directs its support to a single music school in the capital area. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the council whether he has since we began this discussion developed a further view of how a future view would be desirable in these matters or whether he feels that it is normal for us to take the time to discuss it at the highest level. Minister when he'll ever be here to account for her.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u72	Mr. President. In the best world in all parts of the world, it would likely be possible to think that there were strong and powerful music schools in the country where music lessons were associated with high school and would be paid equal to other studies on the part of the State. But also, I think it would be very successful to help that in the future there will also be an excellent core in one place that could receive best students who would put it ahead of further study. I think that would be a wonderful prospect. Of course, that will cost a considerable amount of money. But I believe that all kinds of art are totally equivalent to a second study. I think it may be a better way to develop creativity, to stimulate creativity, to bring in initiatives, and to what kind of creative thing. I realize that there may be a need for humans to walk into such a future. So I believe that the views are valid. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, has presented herself in a positive way and has a strong desire to promote music in the country. As a result of this case here, I find it very generous of the General and Education Committee to pick up such things as you might say is iron and a plea to the highest degree. Secretary of education. Of course, you wonder what that long worm has been for two years. How on earth does it mean that the ideal period is more than halfway? He hasn't set a course in this case yet. Then, at the end of the council, we hear of some kind of course that obviously is very controversial. Of course, the best way to make peace with such matters is to bring up the ideas, discuss them here, discuss them at the music school, and do not put this into practice at the Ministry. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u73	Mr. President. I agree with what. A senator regarding his final words. Of course, this is a big issue. It needs to be treated as such. All stakeholders need to be called to the table. It has to be an effort to create a broad political reconciliation and should not be difficult for me to believe that, in fact, the debate between all of us on the contrary, which is, of course, building up and continuing to develop a top music degree in Iceland. I agree with what. In his talk about the need to cultivate creativity, a member of the council wrote the words he spoke. It has sometimes been said that the education systems that want to fit into the new century, the 21st century, we still call it new, at least even today, need to emphasize the creative element. In fact, this is being done in a new primary textbook. But those words are not the same. paritaprevir A certain question, which is the vision of other branches, was raised to me by the rest of Skarphéðinsson's son. Not just the study of music but other arts. I wondered that the music may have the deepest roots outside the writing itself, which, of course, is an art form and is rooted in the traditional school system. Then we've watched other arts, dances, dramas, and art that are more on the edge, we can say when the school system goes further up, in special schools. Of course, this is one of the things I think it is important for us to consider when discussing the future of music studies and where it belongs in a country - to - country amendment and how it is at home that we also consider whether it requires additional responsibilities to form the State when it comes to advanced art, acting classes, and so on. In fact, there are the changes we are seeing that the normal schools, the so - called ones, are filming it. I mention, for example, the University of London, at the University of London, which has established an art program that is an art program. [[The president calls.]] What a beautiful prospect that might be! A senator traced here where all the schools offer something like that, more creative study than the rest of the articles, Mr. President. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u74	Mr. President. I believe that art studies should be equal to other subjects at high school. I believe that the community we're supposed to go into should offer such opportunities to young people. The most important thing about this bill, however, is that it shows a continuation of a pattern that you have noted in the management style of the highest. Secretary of education. He seems to be in charge of the directives he then published through the budget. We'll see it happening in this place where it's the highest. The Minister of Education seems to be completing, at least changing, in the main order of learning music in the country based on news reports. We saw that through the budget, he took up control of the access to high school, i.e. cut out those 25 years of age and older. This was never mentioned in the council as being different from the budget. In fact, he took steps to apply the laws and directives they made in order to bring the little high school into larger places. At the latest, I recall it to the highest. Well, wasn't he here at dawn going to take the high school of Hafnarfjörður and drag him into Technical School without asking a king or a priest and just doing it through the budget? I think so. I'm against this management style. But the highest. The Minister of Education seems to avoid the council, but he does not seem to go along with his suggestions for a discussion at the General Assembly. Instead, he chooses to wait on them, as in this case, until the council stands up and goes on vacation, and he brings it. This isn't what I want to do and what I want to do. A minister who is courageous should not cultivate such attitude toward the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u75	A respectable president. There's good reason to agree with what's happened. A senator for absence at the highest. Secretary of education. It doesn't go well here already. The General and Education Committee is setting up the Minister for a position in which the music program is in a state of turmoil that the Minister does not see fit to attend and participate in the discussion and answer many persistent questions that exist there. Of course, one of them has to do with the strategy at hand. A senator spoke that after more than half the terms of the election, it was reasonable to ask where the minister's vision is in this important matter. Then I'd like to ask who. A senator who is not offended by anything must we conclude that financial policies need to be followed? Is the real reason for the wealthy Minister not of apathy. Education minister of music studies, for certainly no one is questioning the highest degree of interest. Education minister of music studies, but does it not only reveal that the minister has not established the priorities of his case in a way that makes it possible for him to solve the subject of music education, which is, of course, a ideologies of reducing the public educational and health systems, to cause him to fail to play at all with his policy?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u76	Mr. President. I'd like to make it clear that I don't believe that there's anything left to stay away from. The minister's motive is that he does not care about the seminary. Either now, the man has gone to study with the mother church in the eternal city of the music concert, and he certainly has a lascivious attitude toward the music. Much may be said to say that the highest. A minister in recent years lost some sort of game jump for those in charge of the cutdown committee. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur of Þór Þórðarson's son and why. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, and they seem to have a price at all. We've seen that he's been involved in half a striped by this committee's meetings in financial terms. I'm afraid I think the highest. A minister has lacked the power to gain sufficient funds to provide lasting support for his music program. Mr. President. Then you can wonder why the highest. A minister is not coming to see the council to discuss this. Now I stress that this case has been brought by a global and educational committee of her great generosity so that he does not have a solemn obligation to do so, but he has a political obligation to have been here on the affairs of the country, snooping before people, and the media as to what kind of policy he intends to run and get quite a bit of subjugation. Once he's talking about the policy of such an important non-SECE group, it's justified that he also comes here and steps out of his ivory tower into our ordinary senator's gear and tells us what's going on in there. But could the explanation be that because of the collapse of these rocky soils of a new direction, he has once again begun to think things over, even since he has no direction? Could be the explanation, huh? paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u77	A respectable president. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator hit the nail on his head. I think the highest. The minister is out of control, for it is of course necessary to explain to the audience that a bill delivered by an General Education Committee, as is done here, does not have to be considered at the Ministry of finance, be approved by the government, and proceed to the members of the Congress. V.E.G. The minister of education has been having a bad time taking up his affairs in this administrative business, especially money for the things to be done in education. You may suspect that this route has gone because of the narrowness of the minister's office. Perhaps the same is true when you see that for this relatively small amount of expenses that should not be covered by an entire government, there are acquired funds for another ministry and the exact Ministry, which has also gone badly to collect funds for the most advanced legal committee and through the Congress of the administrations, from the highest level. Social Affairs Minister of Eygló Harðardóttir. Because what I want is because of what I'm doing. A senator is a longtime minister, and a member of the council, recalling whether he is a member of the council, because several times I have seen money provide this means in a delicate way at the end of the council, it is not entirely new, though it is rare, that such a matter has come in, since the funds are brought to another minister and to another legal group. At the very least, I don't recall it being done before.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u78	Mr. President. The answer is quite clear. For the past 25 years, that has never happened. But it has never occurred in the last 25th century that there has been a bill that is not just in the 11th hour, that is, the 12th hour. This bill is stated when the council was due a few days ago to be left on leave for summer vacations. It's kind of hot when it's 12 o'clock, and the night's down on the Ministry on this matter. So you might wonder, " What is the point? ' In this discussion, I've said many times that I'd wanted the highest power. A minister to discuss it with him, but as we know, the best seat in this hall is the highest. Minister, and has been the last weeks and months, a rare visitor in these sales. I feel, though, that it is in the knuckles when men are discussing these matters and the highest. A minister does not arrive until the key statements and tips have been made to give him. But the highest. So the minister's here. One is coming for a long time. If so, he can first explain to us how he does not contribute this bill. Second, I think it's right for us to take this discussion to the highest level. A minister explains his policies regarding the future of the music schools and whether it is the right thing to do in this discussion that he is considering reducing, even dropping funds for the music schools, and using them instead to build up one media school at a high school in the capital area.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u79	President. I asked about the time before when a regular kitchen day had been held here and so fortunate that a nice friend of mine would send me information about it from out of town because I haven't been told about it from the President, so it's good to have a good time. In the past 30 years, the kitchen date has been five times in June, but never later than June 14th, that was 2010. So, of course, you're wondering, Mr. President, when it will be time to keep the kitchen day on this occasion and whether the Senate's officers will imagine that the kitchen day will now be the first time in July 30 years, whether or not it is a turning point in this council, since it has become quite a matter of anger.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u80	A respectable president. I have a lot to do with the President's conference board to examine these days, but not the president who now sits on the President, but the chairman of the Council Board, Einar K.. The Guðfinnsson of Chefnife, because it is absolutely clear to me that he is not in charge of his assignment when we are here three weeks ahead of a work programme, and there is no news of any new programme or Congress contracts. I don't know how many times I have to come up in this chair to ask for it. Do I have to get on my knees? What do I have to do to get people to come up with something at the council, set up a work plan for the summer council, and stop trying to say that there are men trying to negotiate when it is clear that nobody has talked to anyone for six, seven days? It just says everything that needs to be said. I hope the President of the Council, Guðfinnsson K. Guðfinnsson, is about to come to us and tell us that we have started a new plan, and put it to work as soon as possible. A respectable president. I want answers to these questions as soon as possible because it doesn't work to make you come up here over and over again like a broken record to ask about the same thing. [[The president calls.]] All you have to do is plan for work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u81	A respectable president. I suppose a man will be able to take advantage of this team when we come here to complain about the President's conference board, but that's all we do because there's a lot very important about the President's conference board, including that we don't have a plan. Personally, I'm starting to think that this is not how much talk really means to the highest. A government on something that will end the council, so I think we have, in fact, decided, whether a respectable president likes it or not, that this will be a summer council, in fact, a summer council in case of that. Therefore, I feel that there is a requirement for a work programme. That's exactly what it's all about. We are to stop self - deception that it can be avoided. In my opinion, it has become quite a bit since it was still possible because every time you see in the country something new comes from the government, which then takes a very long time to settle. It's always been that way. I have no faith - none - of being anything different now. We need a plan. I demand it, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u82	Mr. President. I agree with that, I have nothing to check out at the conference board of a private president, but that is what I have to do with the meeting board of the head of the council, Einar K. The Son of Guðfinnsson. When you come out of your school system, you know that there's a program for students and staff and teachers, a plan that people walk out of, and we do most of their work, whether they are students or teachers. Things are different here. This is not about whether members of Congress want to work or not, it is very important that people discern it. This is about knowing when meetings should be, how long they should last, and so forth. This does not mean that the government's situation is delaying matters or such. Rather, it is late for the government to present matters that she wants to be handled without much discussion. I've been joking to read only 141, a council on the faults of the present government opposition to the local government of the day. Not always beautiful, but, among other things, under the supervision of a chairman of the government, it seemed reasonable to complain about the government, just as we do now. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u83	A respectable president. Although the subject we are discussing may not be much involved in growth, it is about a very important matter and a significant problem facing us regarding music studies in our country. This bill is trying to meet an emergency problem or a problem that has been forming here recently, which has to deal with a number of music schools. The question here, a respectable president, was, how was the committee involved? Of course, such things are common here, especially when it is assumed that there is a good political agreement on the subject, and this is one of the open ways in the council to handle matters. It is the committee that brings out the matter that reflects the nature of the matter that it should be possible to achieve a solid solidarity on this subject. As for this matter in general, the position of music school, we are faced with the fact that it is and has been so since 1989, if I remember correctly, that in contracts between the state and team groups, music instruction or music lessons in basic, middle and extension stages are being placed in the hands of the local community. That arrangement has its own explanation. That's the way it's been. It began to be a point of view around 2003/2004, especially in Reykjavík, that it would be necessary for the rural population, e.g. Reykjavík, opening the study so that it would be available only to those who had settled their home in the local community. That's why I feel like there's something reasonable about it. Of course, it can be said that it is unnatural for a community to serve in this way those who do not pay an answer to the local community. At least there is a perfectly valid basis for this stand. In other words, if it had worked out completely, it would have meant that students who would have wanted to go to school, for example, in Reykjavík, would have been very difficult, even impossible. At some point or until 2011, the then government decided to install some money into this system to help break such housing, as was the purpose of the agreement to support in general at this school, although it may have been less likely to have been done through the labour agreement or the exchange between state and rural society. There's another discussion. But for one thing, it was to place money into the equation fund so that it would be possible for students to go in between. Unfortunately, the implementation of this agreement has varied according to rural areas. There are rural areas that have come close to this as planned, that these are listed as supplementary items, that these were funds designed to add to the music study, while other rural communities have interpreted it as such, including Reykjavík, the largest rural society, that, with the agreement, some of the state's taking place, financed all the higher levels in the musical playing, teaching the playing of musical instruments, and the press and the extension in song. Of course, that was never a government plan. Minister of education, now of course. Senator Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter. I have fully agreed with the understanding that it is very strange to approach this agreement in a way that, for example, has been made by the city of Reykjavík. This does not make any difference, for this is the attitude of the city of Reykjavík. Of course, the recent conclusion is that the operation of many music schools in Iceland is very uncertain and quite clear that we cannot continue to use this system in the current way. That's why, a respected president, is now working on a committee with the members of the council, one of the Ministry of Education and Culture, two members of the European Union, one from Reykjavíkurburg and one from the Ministry of Education. The working group is working to see what we can do to make a system change, not just to place more funding for this, but to make a system change clear to what it is that the government is doing, what it is doing. The problem with the 2011 agreement, and it was probably done under a huge amount of time pressure, as it often happens, is that there were donated funds, but perhaps we would have had to look more closely to how to use them, it would have been necessary to write it more, since the agreement could have been understood in a way that would be made by the city of Reykjavík. All things will not be provided. At least we know what the situation is now. That is why the first work we are in today's definition of these things is needed. Let me give you a few examples that need to be looked at. A few years ago, in the opinion of an agent, I believe that it is reasonable to believe that because it is a major degree of research in music, which, in turn, comes into the student's high school for a student to study for a student's study in a student's school test, it is normal for the State to arrive and pay the cost. There's one approach. Another is that all the study useful to a student's degree or at high school should be in some formal way paid for by the State. But it is not just such a study, i.e. what is going on in the music school, which is accepted into the high school. There are a number of others who do not study in high school. The question is, Should we consider that when it comes to such students, it is something to be handled by the communities? That's what it's like today because it's the community's job to attend. Should we try to build up the system so that it is quite clear that when it comes to those in a unit-sized study, if it can be used, it is the government to pay and for those who are not its citizens. There's a lot of ideas that will rise up if you're going to approach it like this. Making such a system is not easy. Although that is somewhat reversed, we still need to resolve it, and that includes the work of this group. Then, once you've figured this out, you'll find the money question, how much money you've got to put in this group of paintings, so we'll be happy with our duties, i.e. both the state and the communities? As for the discussion that I have to say, there has been a strange debate about watching, that somehow it has been decided that there should be only one higher school or one high school in music, of course, that such a decision has been made. This committee is working now. She's met twice and she's been back in a few days. The general view of the arrangement is still being made, a significant possibility that people can start working with the financial resources. But there has never been any suggestion that there should be only one college in the advanced phase and that it should be in Reykjavík, on the contrary. What has been examined and wondered is whether to go to a model that is at least one school, which would certainly be in Reykjavík, which would be open to students from anywhere in the country. What is more, if a student could study at that school but would like to remain in his home area where further study in music is offered, the student might remain in his home but be in touch with such schools. What we especially need to consider is that we need to consider only the study and study ways we are offering to those who intend to make music for themselves as a career, since there is a big difference in the way we offer Bible counsel to those who want to study music to enrich their lives and to play musical instruments and those who are going to make music a career. The careers of those who are pursuing professional careers in music and those who are going to a regular study that leads to university, traditional academic, or academic studies are quite different. These students may be much sooner on the move. What then needs to be assured, and I think we should look into it when we're looking at this arrangement, is that we have a way of learning for the students who are as powerful as possible. It is of utmost importance to us because as we progress toward education, those who then make the effort to do so are blessed with powerful music. This does not diminish the importance of teaching those interested in music and then becoming listeners in the future. Therefore, there is no way to suggest that there will be only one school, and it will be the only school to provide advanced education in the playing instruments or in the extension stages of singing, on the contrary. They are not looking for anything to interfere with the other arrangements but even to strengthen them, so that in the case of high - school students, they can remain in their home but in connection with such schools. I want to reiterate this, a respectable president. It's all on the drawing table. We're taking our first steps here. We are still reviewing how we should define the approach of the State and how we should define the arrival of the local community. This must be done in a more precise way than did the 2011 agreement, for it was fully recognized when it was concluded that it was expected that a bill would be put forth at the council to sharpen it. That's what we're doing right now. I hope this work will all be here so that we can see a bill coming into the council right next fall. About this kind of school, i.e. This school I just described earlier, as we would be looking at the group that truly needs to be able to move between rural partners because they intend to make music as a major subject, however, I still want to reiterate that, of course, it remains that a student who is in his community and intends to become a professional musician can well be viewed as the school there is good if the student wants to finish his entire course there. Of course, it remains open. Of course, such a school as I'm describing and discussing here would always have to be so that it would continue to be run by auditions. They would be expected to go to such schools as those who planned to make music for themselves as a career. Of course, entering such schools is no guarantee that they will become professionals, but this way of study needs to be available. I reiterate this: Those attending school in the country, or not in Reykjavík, the capital area, or in other parts of the country, may, of course, continue to study in their hometowns, but it would strengthen their study if they could have some form of cooperation between such schools and schools at home. A respectable president. I believe it is important that this bill on this subject become a law as soon as possible, but I would like to discuss only the position that exists in the work currently in the extension of the musical and media and extension phases of a song. I reiterate that this is a question of how we define the government's work in this regard and the work of the local community. Since 1989, this has been viewed as the work - exchange arrangement as a direct control of the local community. In 2011, the agreement was, in effect, just a respectable president, adding money, adding money that was to be added to music in the country. However, in Reykjavík the decision was made to take the money off the table and leave it alone. I'm very sorry, and I've described that in the past in public, and I know why. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir, former U.S.A. The educational and cultural minister has had the same opinion as regards the content of this agreement. Therefore, we now have great reason to explain this precisely. Or there may be a need to look at the future trade between the state and rural society, and this may be, a respectable president, that it also needs to look at the switch between the state and rural unions in the existing labour agreement. The point is that these things need to be clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u84	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for coming here and putting us in a little better on the future music program. I'm going to start now by saying that I agree with the highest. Minister, to be said here, on his understanding of the 2011 agreement. Therefore, it was designed to promote music study, as it were, for the support of high school or for the advanced study of music. The intention was not that the State would take the assignment, so the translation by certain societies was shocking. It is important that this is clear in the long run. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers, based on his words about the future: I understand that the work force now active in the Ministry or on the Supreme Court. A minister and a model for the future has the prospect of supporting the state to one school in the capital area, which, at the same time, will continue to support further studies in an advanced stage around the country? If this is the correct understanding, would it not call for more money on the part of the State? It's the highest. A minister realizes that there is even a discussion between the state and rural society of changing workers in some other frontal bases? I don't know if it's the highest. A minister gets to answer this question, but I would like to say, "My greatest. " A minister may think that this will only apply to music study, that we take it out of parentheses in this way, or does he think that this too will affect the study of other arts, which are, of course, in other ways? I mentioned in a talk earlier that we would see to it that we are developing a great deal of progress in field arts within the traditional high school. We can name the University of London, and I know that more schools are doing this. But I'm especially asking about what is involved in the study of music.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u85	A respectable president. It may be a little early to claim something about the budget. Already, a large percentage of the students in Reykjavík are doing a significant part of the work going into the Slurpee Fund of a local community. When it comes to the dating emphasis, I suggest that, for example, if we do. Consider also the idea of running one school that had a service duty to other schools, a school designed for students who planned to do this as professionals, who took students on entrance exams and entrance conditions, that does not mean that they intend to give up some support for schools that are wide and wide around the country. In fact, these are not very many schools, they are not in many places in the country, but they are important in these communities. You need to know why and what support is involved and how the system is built. Much details must be explained. I know we agree, me and what. The 2011 agreement between Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter teaches us how to write it much more accurately. This may require a change in income change or a change in how the agreement is established. In contrast, regarding other arts, this is a very interesting question. Of course, the idea we've been discussing about one school that was once discussed as to whether a school should be in the advanced stage of art. It would be such a step, but it would not be considered a public, open school, but especially for those who are going to this art. This, of course, could lead to another list being considered. But the difference between the discussion that was then and the one now being considered is that it was thought of as an open school that was open to all. This would be a course for those who would have shown it and who could show it, including through an oral test, that the person was very serious, and they were going to go to the art track as a working artist.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u86	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I have an additional question to ask. First of all, if it's the highest. A minister sees that on the other hand, the State's support for advanced studies in music across the country and some such school in the capital area is highest. One minister envisions that other schools in the capital area, which have an extension of music, would not be part of this united school? That's the main question to be raised. The second question I would like to contribute here because of the highest. Minister has announced this work, the bill is being built. There must be a significant basis for this, for this has been quite a long time in the Ministry, longer than I was there, since my predecessor in office began this job. It's the highest. A minister is imagining that this bill will come in here the next fall? Of course, it is vital that we receive a clear vision so that we will not be doing such a thing anymore as what we are discussing here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u87	A respectable president. I don't think there's any reason to look at schools that are different in the capital area, working at the middle and advanced stage of singing and advanced playoffs, can continue working. In other words, a student may be an excellent student and would like to be in school if he becomes a reality. That would be one way, but then the question with financing models, e.g. if the student at the same time attends another high school and is taking units, I think it's perfectly normal for the State to come in there. Besides, it can also be thought that the State generally supports the communities in a special way. So there would be some limited amount of money that would have been determined exactly how to distribute it. How exciting it will be to see what we get out of the work of the committee we are trying to build up and then discuss it at the council! I hope, most respectable president, it will be the next fall. [[The president calls.]] I've been determined to do that. You're absolutely right. Senator, we need to get these matters settled. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u88	Mr. President. I appreciate the Minister for the speech. It's fine, as shown here, to review this with a music school, one, two or more. It was reported in the newspaper that 25 music directors considered this to be the reality they were facing, i.e. that two music schools would be united in the capital area and there would be one school. In fact, I felt that there were discrepancies in what the minister said, that there should not be a school, but a school that was open to all students, that there was one of the ideas, and at the same time, it could strengthen highly favored students who could become students at the city of Reykjavík, even though they lived on land. I didn't feel quite clear in the Minister's speech. However, this was only explained. At least I assume that students in the country will be assured of high school studies, at least in these biggest music schools. But what I wanted to talk to the Minister is that I now sit in the General and Education Committee and she wasn't very nice to make this case, I can inform the minister of it, but in the light of the situation, it was decided to do so. Among other things, I was concerned about the reserve of housing and still have it. I'd like to ask the Minister about that. Here, 30 million of the reserves are to be taken out more than once. It was observed by the Department of Social Affairs that there would then be expected that this fund would be laid down. Now I come from a region where there are still unhealed apartments and like the highest. The minister knows a great difference between sales prices and the benefits of social apartments, and many of the rural communities are not equipped to add it to their operating accounts, and they had not expected it. [[The president calls.]] Despite the fact that the relationship will certainly appear here as this party, I don't think it's speaking for all the small communities. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking if the Minister feels the same way about being laid down. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u89	A respectable president. About what question? I just want a senator to say this: When it comes to government relations, on the other hand, at the council here, we must have a conversation with their Icelandic community. We can only hope that those who speak and speak on behalf of their organization will have adequate authority for their policy. It cannot be concluded that we need to talk to every group in the country for every single case. The Syndicate is speaking on behalf of the local community. They are the ones who turn to us with this matter to ask for this solution, the source of the report. I think we have to look forward to putting this into the Union of Iceland. In turn, the funds as a dog are involved. A senator mentions, a reserve of housing, and I'm not going to, and I'm on no alternative to take my stand on that matter. I don't know the business of the fund, but I imagine, and I'll assume, in fact, that those who have recommended this on the part of my society will do that thing and know what to do. If that situation comes up, it will be necessary if something happens there, then there will probably be some time to do so. I'd like to mention that, given cause and reason that what's being thought of this school, if possible, isn't that everyone can wear it. It would be a well - thought - out school for those students who are likely to engage in music as a career. This means that it will not be open and you will have to give an oral test to get into such a school. What I want to say in addition to that is that if a student lives in a country, in the capital area, or elsewhere is in his home school but wants to have contact with this school and meets the inclusion criteria, you can visualize a system where a student can remain in his own home, study at his high school, or at his music school, and be in touch with this school that would develop a personal study.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u90	Mr. President. I thank the Minister for the answer. What I wanted to talk about was a reserve of housing. He came in as part of a project last time, i.e. Rather, he was taken. Now rural society is concerned about this, I know they've talked about it, and they've booked it in their meetings. What I find special about this is that we're talking about billions of dollars on the budgets of this year. We're talking about billions of dollars the government has decided to contribute to this year's budget, including with the suggestions the government has made the day, the road, and the road. Here we're talking about 30 to 60 million over the New Year's Eve, that it can't be put in another way, even though I don't necessarily recommend it, it doesn't seem possible to put it in here, these little sums of money are much more important in the past, as I said before when I mentioned the difference of sales prices and loans, and it seems to have to be taken off. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u91	A respectable president. In this case, there is no need to forget that the project, the musical program in the advanced stages, and the singing in the middle and advanced stages of the country is in the community. This is part of the community's work, not the State. [[Up front.]] It's a little bit like the discussion begins, like it's a government project. The arrival of the State was determined by the 2011 agreement on increased financial contributions. That's why it can't be that if your community needs more money to run the music school, you can just say to the state: you're supposed to take this through the money! because it's theirs. It is the local community that needs to find money - yes, the agreement is for a certain amount of money that comes from the state. [[The meeting song...]] - It's not like that, and that's what we agree with, me and what. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir, former U.S.A. Minister, that the State took over or advanced the music.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u92	No, no.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u93	These are some of the extra money they're putting in there. If they need more money, it is only natural for them to come from their local communities. They're the people who negotiate with the music instructors, that's the people who negotiate the purchases, that's the ones who decide the number of schools, take the students, and all these things, and carry all the business responsibilities. [[The president calls.]] That's obviously an agreement. [[The president calls.]] That's why they suggest it. It is not to be confused with the fact that the State is responsible for this operation. It won't.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u94	Mr. President. I have three questions to the highest. Minister. First, I want to thank him for coming here for the discussion, as well as why. Class president of the Independence Party who apparently has human discipline. V.E.G. A minister said that he hoped to present the bill he has been describing here quite detailed next fall. He now has second orders, if he's going to do it. If that bill isn't ready now, it won't be able to get into the government budget done by a summer break, and it's kind of hoping that he can bring it back in the fall. But let God know. V.E.G. Also, a minister said that it would probably be necessary to have discussions about a change in income and labor exchange between state and rural society. My question is, Can he turn up the bill, or does he intend to contribute the bill even if it has not yet come to a conclusion? V.E.G. A minister well considered how he approved his study of music in such a way that a school in Reykjavík would be held for special students who had to meet certain requirements. However, the teaching in the country would not be the same as understanding, and prominent students who met the criteria could be in study with the new school in Reykjavík. Question two is this: Will this lead to some kind of decrease in donations to school in the country? V.E.G. Ministers have explained a disagreement between state and city of Reykjavík. He's going to build this new school here. Question three, then, is this: Does that mean that no contributions from the state will be made to another music school in Reykjavík?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u95	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the questions. In terms of the switch-in between state and rural unions, it is obvious that the agreement made in 2011, which actually involved adding money, is not enough. It must be written much more accurately, it must be defined as the approach of the State because, according to the arrangement we've had since 1989, this is the very work of the local community. That's really new, i.e. From 2011 on, the state brings funding into this school. I think it's been very clear from an ex-fiancée. A minister named Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, saw that the arrangement, that an agreement, has been interpreted differently from the State. That's why this needs to be explained. I have noted that there is an opinion available from the U.S. commissioner Generalis, one of which is the requisite study that is taking place at an advanced stage in music and how the State should do so. There could be a key to this solution that then covers the whole country, not just the capital area, and then I'll take it as an example: a student who was in school, and then comes to a third question at each time. A senator, at an advanced stage in Reykjavík, and not at the school we are discussing here but, for example, if he were to receive a personal study to be one of them, would it be possible to think that the exact amount of money would come from the government? In addition, it can also be thought that the State has defined funds to add this to this school level. Of course, the question arises: Wouldn't it be more pure to make any changes in income exchange between the state and the community if we are changing the arrangement set out in 1989 that this is a project of the entire community? As to whether a man can bring a bill, I think he can do it. It's going to work. That is why this committee is set up. That's why two members of the European Union are on this committee in order to have a conversation with us about these factors.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u96	Mr. President. I think it's the highest. Ministers have cleaned the air pretty well. I'm happy to guess with that answer for the highest degree. Minister. He claims that he is trying to present a bill on this matter in the fall, even though he does not smell the outcome of a change in income exchange between state and rural society. Second, I understand that this will not lead to a reduction in the interest of music in the country, and thirdly, I also understand that a contribution comes from the state to this new school which I think might be very much needed to become a contribution to music courses in the country, but he also aims to provide funding to support the level of the music courses of those who are in the schools or seminars that provide units for the student's study. [[The president calls.]] I understand the highest. Minister like that. I like it all, and I can't wait to support him in getting money for this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u97	A respectable president. After listening to an answer to a man. I'm starting to question the whole thing because he liked it so much. I still think we're getting the same understanding now. But I'd like to reiterate that this arrangement we're looking at, we still have it on the drawing table. All these ideas will be updated, and there will probably be other ideas about what is best to do. The important thing is that before we move a bill, all of this needs to be placed in place and that all of this needs to be defined by what the government has been doing and what it is to be done by rural society. That's obviously what this is all about. I want to point 'em, too. A senator in a fine article written by two fanciful pianists recently in the News newspaper, the Víkingur of Heiðar Ólafsson, and Jakob Frímann Magnússon, pointed to the very importance of our taking in reexamination the question of how we men and train those who are going to make music professionally. [[Up front.]] This includes what we are considering. So we're going to try to strike two birds in one blow, one that is clearly involved, and the other, in order to solve the problem between the state and the group when it comes to this study and to create as good a way as possible for those who intend to go this way, regardless of where they live on the land. [[The president calls.]] By approaching it this way, i.e. I think we're doing a lot of good. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u98	Mr. President. I'm going to start by celebrating the Supreme Court. A minister of education came to the discussion, and I think it was discovered that it was absolutely necessary. Of course, it is mandatory to have what is true and not to be overly concerned about plans. Ministers of education and to some extent my concern has been reduced by what was observed here in the Supreme Court. Minister. That's fine. Actually, I feel the highest. A minister might follow this and do it more often to inform the World Council earlier and more about things he's doing in the Ministry so that we would not at times have to learn about what is going on with high school in the country or college in the northwestern district or what else. Sadly, it has carried us over and over again, so to speak. A minister has started with some plan in his Ministry, writes letters, preached something to the graduates or other sources, and does not seem to have much to do with the shape of the policy in this category except in financial management. In this respect, the management device in education is actually more a matter of financial interest and how it is used in terms of financial matters than of the fact that a minister puts on the table and talks, e.g. I'm at the General Explanation of Education and Education. The music program under here is very important, and it has been a joy to see how much progress Iceland has made in this field over the past half century or what we can say, and there is no doubt that the music schools and educated people in music that we've moved into the country on a grand scale and that have had a place in the music schools play on a very large part. I think it created the fruit that is in the musical life of the Icelanders to a great degree. It is also a matter of equality. I know that I have grown up in the community where there was no music study at all. I still miss not being able to study that way, to do anything that would have led to it. [[Up front.]] I'm not going to argue that I've been amazed by my skills, but I've enjoyed watching my activities through music schools, and I've also known a bit of my own experience as a family that has to rely on music studies in a other country society than a law-oriented group society, and I've only been affected by the evasion of the years in these matters of community relations, as well as now the state and rural society. I have to say, just as it is, there are disappointments and surprises at the moment that the situation has come that we see here is a reason. The General and Education Committee to accept it, I almost want to let myself say, a respectable president, a dirty job, save this case in some part of this year's way, and have to take great mountain backs in those waters. V.E.G. In other words, a minister of education has had such aground on the matter and chooses to consult the committee, which will take place after a clean run. Of course, most of us do not all get, either at meetings or through mail communications, information about the status of certain music schools that are seriously serious. Of course, that's what makes this so strange and sad that what man was trying to do in 2011, as here has been very good for the present and the former Supreme Court. Education conferences, trying to further this study with a considerable amount of money or even a few new funds, that a few years later, four years later, the situation is not less fucked up if not just in a worse situation than it was there. However, it should be noted, Mr. President, that this communication between the administrative points had not been neglected before. It's not like that and it's not the right kind of luxury, so I was sold as a financial minister of my time, that it was finally trying to handle years of fuck-ups in the relationship between state and rural society that men pushed ahead of me and couldn't handle despite all the fine ions committees and partnerships that state and rural society are supposed to interact. It had been an endless problem with the way the State was going to do this or how a higher school or an advanced level of music would be conducted after saying that the quality of the situation has gradually developed in the study at the base, not arguing that it is the task of the rural society. There are relatively simple rules that I think are in a fixed form; if a student is attending a course other than his legal group, then there is a fixed frame around which the law-oriented group society pays on that subject, it is necessary that the annual approval and subscription of the local community are required, but it usually goes smoothly. Now I'm not in the details, and here in the hall are both the former and the present highest. A minister of education who knows better than I thought the meaning would be that if it were to be held up in the after-stage, some sort of state involvement would replace the establishment of the legislature society, at least to a large degree, if it were not for the study. It has to do with the discussion of school in Reykjavík, who has a central role in the State. I'm not going to judge that idea to death in advance as it is presented here, but as she could look out at the beginning, it didn't sound too good if the State was going to draw completely on these subjects and to offer just one school in Reykjavík and no other opportunity for study at this stage. Then there would be the same problem with fellow workers in other parts of the country than in Reykjavík and/or in the country where students of the country met the requirements for such a study would have to do so well and come to Reykjavík for that study. Of course, it is not a future arrangement that we can accept. I think it's so elaborate and obvious, especially when it comes to the country, that it is important to make good use of and strengthen all the opportunities there are, to reduce the need for this study for very long, to strengthen the existing units by integrating it into powerful music schools, etc. Of course, people don't negotiate in advance of the Allegler's debate for money or anything, but I have to say, as it is, if that's what it takes to get these things done properly, I think the state should be ready to put on the hook. Since 250 million new money could be scraped up in 2011 and not grew on the trees back then, not yet so, I understand that everything has now been smiled upon with goods and golden age and a joyful season, the highest. At least from time to time, a prime minister says that there has finally been a change, good and good, then the State should be reasonably generous in that. But I agree absolutely that it must be on the basis of some arrangement that has been carefully developed and that, of course, is trying as much as possible to avoid disputes and such. [[Up front.]] Yeah, yeah, I'm sure it could have been done even better over there in 2011. It was a difficult birth, as it often is. In fact, in a few cases, it was tried to take a little action on the part of a country and to move over and clean up the shift, and some of it was successful. The rural population responded completely to any of the remaining items that had been brought up or left behind by the state, and of course, it was the course of the long way to make these communications, income and activities the state and rural society, more efficient. But I don't buy it that it has to sail on the coast in 2015, since it could be started in 2011 as hard as it was in the year 2015. I'd like to mention one thing in this bill, which may not be particularly about the top. Education minister, except to the extent that he has as a minister in the government, is involved in the agreement, which is this strange method of resorting to 30 million. K. From a reserve of housing. I must say, most respectable president, that I resent that. I don't like it, especially if it's a prelude to the laid down of spare housing funds. I don't think that's what I'm gonna do. Then may I remind you again and beg pardon, a respectable president, to recall a tragic time at the end of the crisis, that the reserve of housing was maintained throughout the Depression. Why was that? Yes, it was because people wanted him to be there, so they could become more money than less when it turned out to be better. There is no equal to the local community involved here. This system was set up at the time to assist rural communities who were trapped in a very difficult position with a large amount of social housing in areas where the market was very small or not at all available for housing, it was set up to help them remove their positions by meeting the difference to some extent through the funds of intermediate loans and market prices. Some rural communities in some areas managed to process this problem, usually in rural areas where there is a small market, so the apartments can be sold for something. But elsewhere, it simply did not have the circumstances, and it may not have been until now. So the share of the rural communities, or fate of the rural communities in the country, is very dissociative in these substances, from rural communities with an enormously high percentage of such housing, up to 30% I know examples of those who have been able to sell mostly or even entirely what they want to sell, perhaps keep behind a few apartments in order to meet the temporary need, over to others who have only been able to survive and sit down with all the money they want to sell. Should they completely pull the short straw if the shelter's reserve is to be destroyed? Clearly, that would not be fair. This problem has come a long way, so we are no longer talking about the impossible in these substances. Let me guess, this is about ten rural societies remaining, but in a few cases considerably. In my opinion, it would be completely absurd to leave these societies entirely alone. In some places, these are neighbors, where professional conditions may have been better in one place, and reasonable population development. In other parts of the world, it was harder during those years when the fund was active, but now it may be opening up a situation to move it into the market. Then I feel totally lonely that it should. So may I avoid this usual slander about the kind of terrible evil it was that local communities could build in the social housing system over the years, pointing out the obvious fact that they are now many of the settlements in the country that live on this facility today simply because this is the only home that is of that kind and is the youngest housing in the area and in the best situation. It wouldn't be better if this place had never been built. It is true that when circumstances developed in a favorable way, the real estate markets did not maintain full value, etc., but the apartments are in place and, in the vast majority of cases, are fully used, although they are not available for this price at high price. I feel that there must be some answer before we understand this matter about the housing reserve. Perhaps the head of the General and Education Committee can add something to that sarp, a check on what is this strange way to reach the reserves of housing and then skimming out 30 million this year. I think it's very fucked up and it doesn't change anything that my community's made of itself, as I understand it, because it's still more urgent to deal with the problems of music schools. A respectable president. I repeat, it was useful to have the highest power. A minister of education and culture for the discussion, and hopefully he can stay with us until the end of the discussion so that further questions and opinions can be answered.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u99	A respectable president. I think once again that it is necessary to bear in mind the story in this case, i.e. that a deal was made between the state and rural union in 1989 on the switch in which rural society began to run the studies at the second and middle stages of singing and during the extension of the musical game, and was introduced to the income farms. Then there was a special problem when Reykjavíkurburg, in particular, revealed her goal that she would not pay for the study of others except those who had a home entry in Reykjavík and pay an answer there. For this position you can reason, but it had a major impact on our academic and cultural disorder. The strongest evidence for the 2011 accord and the main weight in this matter were: We need to put money away from the government in order to create this mobility so that it can be possible for young people and others to go from country to country. Then the question that I think is fundamental here comes up, turning them to the school idea I've mentioned, i.e. To define who is needed and must be able to go and choose a school somewhere other than a country club. Then you will do so in particular to the students who are on their way to such studies as some preparation for their lifetime work. This need to be absolutely certain that these students can go from country to country. It can then be held that in other respects, it should not be so important if a person studies his own home and stays there in the college if this is a study that is different from the one I described here. But it is precisely the policy of shutting down the study of certain societies that call for the administration of the State. It is certainly our responsibility to explain exactly who this is and how we will pay for it. Another way would be to make major changes in the system, and the government would take it seriously. Of course, this would call for a major disorder and would be a difficult task. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u100	Mr. President. Of course, the very thing that happens is right. Minister, this is not entirely simple. This is an old work exchange and, on the other hand, how it developed, rural society in general had a much larger definition of the ideal populations that come from other rural areas. I know that very well after having lived here for a very long time but having a legal home elsewhere. I've watched these changes; from above the local communities did not necessarily require, they didn't view it as a big thing, and they even looked at it as a result, of course, that they were moving in both directions, and that there were a number of students who had a legal home other than here, which would be replaced by others, etc. So began wanting to get into the situation, and perhaps it was mostly the larger societies in the capital area that believed they were so much more hosts than the recipients that it would no longer work. We know that story. With regard to the school concept, I understand it if there is some thought to ensure that those who are pursuing a higher level of study with the highest quality in preparation for further study, therefore, outside the country of music, but that is, of course, not always so that when they move from basic to medium level, the way is quite clear. There may be a little open for students over a period of years where what is going to happen in that regard. I do not recommend that the State take all of this back to itself. That's what I think should be a complete puzzle, mainly because I don't think there would be any support for the whole music school job, because I feel that the additive effect is so obvious if there's any other way to find out. So I have the good sense that people are trying hard in this discussion or the current committee, hoping for the best in that regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u101	A respectable president. The question is, Who do you need to go between school and rural society? I think it might be a good solution to put it up in the way I've been describing it here. It is also true to bear in mind that those who are going to study music, such as college, have special skills in this field rather than regular book studies, for example. There needs to be a learning program for those students. This, in turn, is the factor. A senator spoke about the reserve of housing. I can totally understand any concerns I might have. A senator has, but I would like to point out that because this project is part of the rural community, it is not the state of this project, but the government has just added money to support it, it is normal for the rural community to provide solutions to the problems that have developed, among other things, because of the way Reykjavíkurborg has understood this agreement. It is not the government to bring in an increase of money beyond what is in the agreement, that is, the rest of the companies themselves. They have said themselves that it is more important to them, and it is shown in their report that certain funds go to solve that problem than to go to the reserve. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It may be a controversial estimate, but it must be the rural society that has to come up with a solution because the state has done its part in the agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u102	Mr. President. Yeah, but I guess the deal is about to change. I don't know if there's anything permanent in these materials. If I remember correctly about the reserve, it was also for him to make some money. Was it not a part of something that makes up one of the income farms from the rural communities in that fund? And so, every year, the state put into it some small amount of money to keep him alive in that respect. At least during the years when I came to do this, it was very difficult. Of course, there is no regional failure, even if this is done once this year if it is not prescribed for something else and worse in the future with the fund. I'd be most excited to hear what's ahead of us in that regard, without specifically referring to the minister of education and culture. It would be more likely to be a social and housing minister who should answer for that, or perhaps the head of the General and Education Committee, which is involved in transporting this bill. That's the kind of information I'm most after.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u103	Mr. President. Clearly, music study is so important, and we have seen that we have become a lot of very attractive musicians who add to our quality of life to having so much music, so it is also a good export product, if we want to look at it in economic sizes. What is surprising is that, first of all, a minister should not deliver the case himself but a universal committee and especially when considering the 520 million funding. K. a donation, among other things, to come from a reserve of housing. The reports given are that this is the contribution the societies have paid in recent years. The European Union, with the permission of the president, described the situation that under the present circumstances is an urgent task of solving the problem of a music school rather than the maintenance of payment for a financial deposit. This may well be the attitude of an Icelandic country partner, but what reasons do we have? It is now that the reserve is made up of a welfare committee. We have not discussed his matters much. He hasn't had any problems, so to speak, so he's just pissed off. But I would like to ask an ex - secretary of finance if he thinks this is the right thing to do, and if he believes that this is a sentence sufficient by the General to approve using a fund that is intended for all other things, he uses it to finance music studies, no matter how noble it might be.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u104	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying something with a what. A senator of the importance of music and music and the practice of music, which, of course, enriches and enhances the human life and often refers to as the creative branches that have flourished in various fields in recent years. The music is certainly big in it, a large export product from Iceland, and it is likely to play a larger role in land production and thus the rise of tourism than many realize. There was much to say. But coming back to this matter, of course, it's a mess. It smells long distances. First, it is odd that the committee should be forced to take on the dirty task of delivering the case here on the final meters of the council. V.E.G. Clearly, a minister has not had much interest in it or has not shown it or what it is now that makes it so late. That's 30 million. K. It's the money that's due for the reserves of housing this year. Of course, if I understand this correctly, it's new money, it's being tried to get into this another 30 million to save such a terrible problem, so that these funds that your communities would otherwise have brought to the reserves will have been involved. State and rural society have been in agreement on that matter too, and it was a firm will, at any rate, during the years when I visited it, to keep the reserves of living housing, which is why the State supported him with certain small sums of money, and the rural communities put their backs on it. So I think it's a great mountain back road. Of course they can say: Well, it's only their business that they decide to make changes in this arrangement, but it doesn't. That's why I've been asking about the future. What, then, is required for a reserve of housing to be released this year? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u105	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I hear we both don't have depth enough insight into the position of the reserve, and it's just as well that you'd like to learn about it here in your discussion about what this situation is. I have to say, I think it's odd to put the committee in that position to bring this matter when it's taking money from a whole other cause, money that I could provide for myself - if there are 30 million available, now it'd be nice to use it to map the housing status of our country's communities because there's not enough information about it in this country. But I'd also like to say that it's odd now, because the council isn't having any limits, it seems here to be working until after summer, that the Minister of Nature had been in the hands of the court of hand to deliver the matter himself. I wonder what. A senator knows why he did not.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u106	Mr. President. I don't have any direct information about it. Of course, you can let your mind wander, and you may have the highest. There is no special price for Ministers to bring this matter into view in view of what kind of mess it all is and therefore be very glad that a universal and educational committee began to take in the cup. Now the committee would probably not expect it to return to the committee, but I have to say just as it is, there is no clearer answer in the context of this in the future of housing reserves and after experiences as well as what the situation is in that committee's Supreme Work. A minister of the music study and communications there, I thought that because we have enough time, Mr. President, and all summer ahead, the General and Education Committee should take the case back to themselves between 1 and 2. and to be contacted by the Minister of Social Affairs and Hospital Affairs, even the ionists of the ionism Committee, who are then the best in this relationship between state and country on income and work, and the following events also referred to as the highest level. The Minister of Education was here informing us that he was at work and trying to reach some agreement on the arrangements of these music schools. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u107	A respectable president. As the discussion unfolds, I'm becoming a little unsure of this because it is evident that there is a good will here to try to save something that is at its height. The Minister of Education has not yet completed the winter, so the committee is building a problem with him and trying to get his part out of pressure from the rurals as well as because he has to face some contracts. All right. We also have a number of other cases that you would have thought were important, but when you can get so much money as you like them with all kinds of tricks, as we've done right here during the discussion, you'll be thinking about other factors. For example, consider an empty interpretation fund that means that those who use signed language as their form of expression do not have equal access to society as well as others while the funds are empty. We can watch other cases. We watch a Land Hospital, a local university hospital, and we watch the scene there. They need equipment, they need money to pay people money, etc. You get a little more concerned about priorities, too, when it comes to the factors as well. A senator spoke here at the moment. paritaprevir Sigríður Ígjöld the Ingibjörg of Ingadóttir before, i.e. the reserve of housing. Then you wonder about the priorities of these matters. I'm willing to help the Minister if somehow this has fallen between him for the winter, but I'll also need an explanation of what will happen to the housing reserve. It seems he doesn't need that money. Is he being laid down? Is this part of some particular plan for social living? [[The president calls.]] Then I'd like to know about other basic projects that could be considered as much like this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u108	Mr. President. I can say that it doesn't work on a person to deal with these big parties, the state and the rural society, that this is the way it should be, to come here, in the end, at the end of the summer in this enslaving mess. The 2011 agreement puts up another $250 million. The amount of money from the State is 480 million, and in the United States, it takes on a project of 230. Then it's extended 2014 and it so expires, its timeout, this year, so it's all upset. This is a further development in the development of rural society's ability to carry on these projects so that the state is angry at the number of 480 million, which is now 520 million. K. In all of this, 30 million have been added to the local community's efforts to contribute to the housing reserve on the basis of the 2011 agreement. This is the way I think it is, if I'm right, instead of the state's previously placed it directly into the housing reserve. It's the money the locals now say is critical to this, to save it from an angle, but I'd like to say that it's not in themselves some private community because it's part of the 2011 contract on the workchange and cost exchange. The conclusion is that the amount of supplies is eliminated from the reserves of housing. So I feel that we need to get a clearer line on it before the situation is resolved, and the committee will have to call it back and review it if there are no proper and clear answers about it in these matters. Of course, all of this has been so far overwhelming, that no more than this should have been wrapped in government and rural society. And the inconsistencies that have existed in these waters without teaching one or no one, naturally, all of us have a lack of ability to do so in the past few years. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u109	Thank you, Mr. Honorable President. If you look up the online reserve for housing, you will see - I have to admit that I didn't know much about him before this discussion began - that one of his roles is, for example, giving management contributions to rural society due to the exchange of social renters or long-term apartments. You can assume that this applies especially to rural society, as well as to any rural society that may have been involved in the process and that significant deportation has been done. It also indicates that this is to provide contributions to rural society on the basis of the provision of social ownership and rent-offs on the general market, etc. So this seems to be a small aim for rural communities where much transport has been since, and considerable of housing remains empty, and the rural communities had to bear the high cost, ergo rural areas in the region. It seems, then, that this fund has become unnecessary and that this project has been completed, or what? [[The president calls.]] How does that measure? A senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u110	Mr. President. No, that's the problem. The sea has not finished, and it is not unnecessary. He's going to finish things off with some of the rural communities in the country, like I just studied my speech. In my opinion, it would be a gross violation of commodities between rural society if the communities that are still in considerable trouble, especially when they have failed to sell and reduce debt due to social housing because the market conditions for the community have not offered it. This has been the role of the fund that man has seen mostly in the past few years. He's been trying sick for the past few years to let a few sales through, perhaps, each year for the limited amount of money he's had. Farmers have sent in requests or applications and may have had one apartment a year, one or two, several rural societies at a time, and have not been able to meet the need for it, as it has been in the past few years. It is important to map and look to what remains of this problem that is comparable to the one that other rural groups have already been helped to solve the fund over the years, and to plan for the funds and lifetime to complete it so that equals in these materials are properly cared for. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u111	As was previously announced in this meeting, president has received a program for the program, which is as follows: ▪ We signed it, making our suggestion in line with 1st. 77st. Conventional protocol that the next meeting will be as follows: 1st Unprepared queries. 2. The situation in the labour market, the oral report of the prime minister. 3. Special discussion of insurance. A verbal vendetta, Sigríður Ingadóttir, answers to the question of prime minister, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson. 4. Special discussion of planned tax changes and balance in the community. Painting is Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, and to answer, the minister of finance and economics is Bjarni Benediktsson. 5. Specific patient safety reports following the number of healthcare professionals reported. Adolescent Jón Þór Ólafsson, and for the answer, the health minister of Kristján Þór Julietsson will be Júlíusson. We would like this proposal to be presented for release in accordance with the above terms of engagement. Under this letter, Katrín Júlíusdóttir, Jón Þór Ólafsson, and Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u112	A respectable president. In view of the seeming inconsistency of this council, and the president seems to have canceled its administration to prime minister, we propose a new program because special discussions from members of Congress have been waiting since January. For example, a petition has been made to prime minister. Ingibjörg Sigríður Ingadóttir for a discussion on insurance insurance policy has been asked here in the early February. Since the President has not seen that there will be a work programme for special discussions, we believe it is important that a change of schedule be made so that they can come up and we can have a discussion on the most important issues. Then it is the labour market report. It is quite remarkable that the prime minister has not contributed to the two, three months that we have requested the discussion on that matter, and of course it is not possible to have a prime minister so thoughtless that he is not going to discuss these important matters in the conference with us. That's what we propose.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u113	Mr. President. We have made these program suggestions, and we have concluded that it is important to take the matter on a program there. As things are going on right now, it seems that we should stay here until the fall, and this all goes into one place. The points presented here to be discussed are all urgent. As we have seen, we have been waiting a long time to discuss the situation at the labour market, and we now face a serious situation at the Land Hospital following the operation of health care professionals or nurses and associates within the BHM, so there are a number of issues we have to take on and discuss here. As we work here until summer and as a result, we feel that their priorities are important.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u114	Mr. President. In recent years, nearly 200 health - care professionals have left jobs at the Land Hospital, and this assembly will continue to operate. It is time that the greater part of this section allows us to have a special discussion at the council of the more serious health - care facility after more of the Generals passed laws on health care professionals strikes, and the rest of the reports. We need to have a chance to talk about it. That is our request. That is what we propose to the greater part of the council, the majority of members of the council, that we discuss the serious situation at the council. That is our request.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u115	A respectable president. It turns out that the government wants to change the seminars here in the way that Congress operates throughout the year in a regular year. So it requires that you reach some frame, set a frame on which way the council should first adopt this practice. Hence, it is only natural that members of Parliament here offer suggestions on how they want to see the program, what subjects they want to discuss here instead of taking one - sided information from the government, as it is today's program.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u116	A respectable president. This proposal is the next thing that will come to be a sort of organization at this high council these days. Congress itself has to make some decisions about this. A respectable president is not prepared to implement a work programme that we can follow, at least knowing about 24 hours'notice what we're going to talk about or what we're going to do here. This council has recently gone into total mismanagement. I feel alone that we're going to be here a little longer, for the summer, I can see for myself. So it is best for us to start discussing the program over a period of time and after we hopefully agree on this program, although it was just to make it clear what we are going to talk about tomorrow. But the lack of organization is absolute. The Senate work is becoming very negative, as if we had needed more of it in this town. I second the suggestion, encouraging all to do the same. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u117	President. The employment is in complete confusion, and we are measuring the duration of a non-election council, i.e. We haven't seen such a long assembly, and then we begin our fall election and continue into the summer since 1985. That's the situation here. It's about to blow up the routine, and it reflects the incoherentness that's so perfect here. In view of protests outside here, I ask the members of the Parliament to give us three special talks that we have here on urgent and important issues and that are also, in addition to an empty interpretation fund used by the deaf through signed language.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u118	A respectable president. For three weeks this council has been directed from the Ministry of Presidency through the highest level. There's no organization here, there's no plan, and there's no sign of where we're going or what we're talking about. In such a situation, general members of Congress are violated by keeping them away from the possibility of having a conversation with the Minister in specific discussions. We're being kept out of the question period where there are verbal inquiries, I don't know better than that there's only 16 queries waiting, and here's a lot of special discussions waiting for us. What we are asking for with this program is simply to have these discussions on the program. One of these date from January 19 last January. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's cognition of equalities in society and taxes, January 19. This government is by no means successful in caring for the council and the Supreme Court. A president is directed by this same government. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] He now needs to get his shit together and take some form of control of this council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u119	A respectable president. As a result, if the government department wants to hold a council here for the entire summer, it will be necessary for Congress to take it normally for the rest of the summer. Ministers cannot refuse to answer queries, as if they have been available for a few weeks. There have been no queries classes on Mondays, as is normal and normal. Specific discussions have not been planned. I think there's every reason we talk about what's important in the community, about what is happening in the nation. Of course, it would have been good and convenient, for example, to have at this point a special discussion of the empty interpretation fund, at the same time as the protests are here in the East. We must arrange the program in such a way that it is compatible with the fact that the council sits throughout the year, and that is what this proposal is.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u120	V.E.G. President. Today's program is on 30 issues. We have so far been able to speak into case number two. I see no reason for that, while the program is not better handled as high as possible. Mr. President is setting up, that we're tearing off the program. I don't see any reason for that. I also admit that I am truly bored with the claims of senators to the highest degree. General President. It's uncool, and I think it's closer that we all encourage him and support him. I'm the highest. A president to extend the meeting time here. There's a lot of pressure on the heart. I think it's only natural that we have all the time we need so that people can talk things out and encourage evening meetings and weekend meetings, not help us to complete the council at a good time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u121	Mr. President. I forgot to mention one before. If the majority of the council agrees with this program proposal, we can discuss these important issues with a specific discussion, which is under the norm of our legal instruments to monitor the implementation of the authority. It's not in the power of a lack of a work programme here that can keep this surveillance tool for members of the Parliament with the Commission any more. There must be a greater, more efficient way of allowing members of Congress to maintain and monitor this government. That's what it's all about. If we agree with this now, it just means that we can have an active surveillance role at the beginning of a meeting tomorrow, and then the President stops a meeting and announces a new assembly meeting with a program. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's what it's all about. This is one other reason, the execution of the European Commission.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u122	A respectable president. I'm going to go out on numbers because of the situation that now prevails at the council. When a new government was formed in a collapse, the minority government of the Left Motion and Green Conspiracies, the Council's Work Programme was canceled on February 6, 2009. There was no valid work plan at the time until the election began. In the summer of 2009, a summer convention was held. It was between May 15 and August 28. In the autumn of 2009, we began our work again on October 1 and in the summer of 2010, we stopped on June 24. There are still two days to be evaluated. [[Take it up in: Okay.]] Although this list is as absurd as here has been about when and what has happened, it is now like this, and it was also to be followed, even though it is more than what we are facing today. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u123	Mr. President. I don't think we're here now because they're waiting to beat the record of the previous government. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I'm just hoping that's not the point, but who knows, maybe in two days, this will be solved when the target is reached. We have a discussion on the program that we in the left green have requested, i.e. Yeah. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, to the effect of planned tax change on the community. What is the meaning of the view that there is no room for improvement in health - class agreements and that there are hundreds of billions of dollars left behind? We are faced with a constant protest. Now they're protesting here, except that there are no funds in the deaf's interpretation fund. There have been protests here recently, June 17, and before, against this government. Will the government not open its ears to what people are talking about in society, and what are their messages? [[The president calls.]] Why not listen to the so - called grass root and notice what is being discussed in society and go home and do something about it? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u124	V.E.G. President. This was a request for a president's encouragement. I sure will. I would like to encourage all members of the Committee to Presidency to support the members of Congress and our role in monitoring. Now we have not been allowed to discuss here in special discussions or questions for a verbal reply for more than three weeks. Here's a request for a special discussion. The most important, I'd like to say, in terms of the health status, as well. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson has asked for and is very important. For a long time, I have been waiting to talk to the prime minister about insurance, the largest promise of the Action Party. We're back on the basic growth because of fear of inflation, and I think it's time we discussed this matter. I would like to encourage the president to carry out the role of the council and the greater part to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u125	A respectable president. The noises we hear outside are not sound in jet engines that carry Icelandic health groups to abroad, looking for better working conditions, less for jet engines that carry the highest level. Industrial and commercial ministers on one of her very important work trips to foreign lands, but protests because of the social interpretation funds. Has this been accomplished in some way? No, that has not been done, unfortunately. It appears earlier in a talk. paritaprevir It's the exact will of Seystein's Sæmundsson. parishioners when it comes to negotiating about the end of the council. You see, it was nearly two weeks ago that it was possible to negotiate for the end of Congress of the Independence Party. It's actually just for the advance party to be ready to sit down and go over and negotiate how we're going to finish this. But there's no one to do that. [[The president calls.]] We saw into the fire on it earlier when it hit the ground. þm. The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson spoke. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's good to know.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u126	A respectable president. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. This speech that has taken over here during this spring council is nothing like it. [[Up front.]] I'm not going to start recollecting the hours and days that have gone to the President's conference board. Now, the latest blow for the government opposition is to propose a program of adjustment every day in order to spend one or two hours discussing a vote. Today, council members are abused day after day by day by day. It is complained that it cannot be negotiated, and the forward party blamed for it. [[Up front.]] A respectable president. I refer these words to the fatherhouses, for it is up to the government opposition to provide practical solutions she wants to negotiate on another level, she wants to negotiate about the end of Congress, she wants to negotiate on another occasion on the end of Congress. [[Up front.]] [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's an unacceptable situation, a respectable president. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u127	A respectable president. The government situation cannot be responsible for the project of the council and blessed is not as well as the last one who announced to the government that it could get seven cases of its choice. [[Up front.]] This was done by a council president of the Independence Party during the last term. We won't. We will only suggest that if the government wishes to continue its council indefinitely, to violate the rights of the Generals, to prevent them from enjoying family association and going to summer permits as they have made arrangements, then we will discuss all the matters of the community, and government ministers will not be able to play the sun without the role of the administration of the law to the Commission being active. [[The Council of Christmas.]] [[The Council of Christmas.]] That's the basic requirement here. Because men are comparing themselves over the length of Congress, this has already become the longest council in history. It was set before September 10, the first time in the history of Congress that was set so early. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u128	President. The members of the greater part must agree with us that there is a need for a program so that we can adapt to action. Members of the government stand have called for special discussions about very important matters. I think it's a little strange that when we were so close to making a deal, we keep throwing sticks from the forward party. Unfortunately, the advance party has been acting very strangely, considering how much peace we had made over almost everything. That's what I'm talking about. Today's senators are a characteristic of an odd venison, which is reserved for me to understand, so I just hope that the members of the greater section will vote with this program-change proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u129	A respectable president. The speech from what happened. The members of the Convention illustrate one of the problems we face here, that's not the highest. Independence party, it's the highest. Popularity party. Yeah, the Honourable, that's right. The trouble is that he doesn't know peace, doesn't know how to negotiate, doesn't know how to compromise. It's the only thing that's ever happened. or the highest. A party of forwardness, or what we should call him, may be keeping things in strife and striking oneself to knights. There's been an ongoing pattern since the beginning of this council as far as I can see it and certainly this summer. To blame the smaller portion shows that it is not just a lack of communication between an independent party and a forward party but among the individual candidates, even though they are supposed to be in line.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u130	President. Here is the impression that there is a considerable more responsible part here at the council, which is the government side and the Independence Party, prepared to negotiate to complete a council, but each time you see a country on that expedition, some candidate with a bit of trouble will substantiate. It has been repeated quite a while, and unfortunately, it is not our problem but is also a personal candidate. Clearly, their problem is widespread and their position in the political spectrum of conversation with their voters, many of whom are on the run from theirs in the spring of 2013 and, of course, the position that the advance party has lost its business. [[Up front.]] It is not for us to figure out who it is, but it is indeed for the candidates to find it, and they have found their own self in their conflict with the team of colleagues in one case after another. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u131	A respectable president. This has been the subject of a special discussion and why it has not been made, and I agree that it is very strange since we are having a council that will not be held. I have one request that I have asked for some time ago to make a special discussion about the Senate and the activities of the council and subsequent changes to the council in the highest ideas. Economic and financial ministers on all kinds of political changes that are of interest to many people. I think it would be very good to take that matter to a discussion sometime, considering the nature of the council. And I'd also like to add my testimony to the agreement on the end of the council. Some time ago, though, negotiations with the Independence Party were reached, and, of course, it is very special that the government groups are in their separate places that they are writing separately at the opposition point. But for one thing, we could solve this dilemma that the council has established in the highest order. Ministers have expressed themselves here many times, simply saying that more parts of counsel and attention can apply the methods that they may have in their toolboxes, e.g. A filibuster, to try to stop them from making decisions. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u132	V.E.G. President. It's a fun thing, because every time everyone's set up bees and flowers in the fields, there's some candidate with trouble because he's telling the truth about the situation here. That's just a bunch of damned trouble, you know, it better not be a problem. I'm just going to say again that the basis for a deal is that a solid state can be negotiated. But this has been shown by the government at the end of the council that it is not worthy of trust. That's why we have to keep going, and that's why I'm the highest. To keep men in line, the president is still holding up a full - time ministry, good speech, and, if necessary, some trouble, but let's band together and try to complete this council with some voodoo.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u133	Mr. President. I think this is a good suggestion, and it would be interesting to have one day of good preparation discussed important issues in society today, seeing if it could not improve rather than continue the confusion. This, of course, is quite clear, and since it has been said that certain senators and Prime Ministers had a desire for a summer council, bruising the idea that they would be here this summer. It is also clear, however, that the advance party is on its own to refuse to negotiate and the problem has become isolated from the forward movement. From then on, we will see and will learn to see what progress this has brought upon us, what will be the progressive efforts of the advance team to guide this into the summer council. We're close to the skirt toucher. But when did this happen, Mr. President? This is what happened when the President, unfortunately, chose to set up a program of war proposals for more of the employment committees on the box. [[The president calls.]] How much did we spend on it? [[The president calls.]] Two weeks, two and a half weeks? It's been like this ever since. [[The president calls.]] So many must examine themselves here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u134	A respectable president. I can't help but come up here for the second time under the vote program. It is quite remarkable how members of the Parliament here speak of a group less than 100 years old, the forwarding party, and the highest. Prime Minister Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson. It's a big challenge to the council, and I declare it from this chair, a respectable president, that the character and harassment in this house today is much worse than it was during the last term, and it reached new heights then. The condition of the council is very serious. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] The last term was a child game with these same anti - government members, who were elected, many of them were elected by the council, better before the council. It's not possible. This isn't working anymore. This is a serious situation that should be discussed with the prime committee, and I'm also going to say in particular that these attacks on the President of the Council are repugnant. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u135	A respectable president. I don't have the custom of going through comments on the programs of the smaller section here at council to explain or review, but I'm not invited. This entrail of nonsense, with men up here on their feet and looking like they're having fun, and then they laugh in the hall, and this is not worthy of the council. Then, when talking about the fact that this has never happened before, recall that at some point this has been done, and now it is time to baby-sit, for example. The members of the council are absolutely right. However, in the summer of 2009, because there has been a review, the members of the council were not even notified on Friday for a shopping weekend that it would be a vacation the following week. It was the only vacation that summer. So I think men should think before they go up here to make fun of one political party. Is it now that governments have been negotiated with smaller parts of the world? [[The president calls.]] No. When the smaller part came up here, he offered eight cases, eight cases that the forward party could end. Eight cases. There's a deal to be negotiated. [[The president calls.]] It needs trust. And people should stop talking to each other like this today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u136	A respectable president. About six days ago, we were here at the council, where there were agreements in the range of 50-555 cases, that they passed through the council, and some of the loose ends. Then it was the highest. Seafood and agricultural ministers, it was the highest. Seafood and agricultural ministers, if I may be allowed to complete my case for the Supreme Court. A minister who shot a torpedo into those talks by bringing a full bill into the macrol language that had been negotiated in a given way. [[There wasn't a deal yet.]] There is now a difference of opinion on the subject. But could it not have been held a little better? Would it not have been reasonable to talk to humans before being sent to the professional committee? Would not the delicate situation that existed, and everyone knew that it was extremely delicate to be careful? I have to ask the highest. Ministers to stick to their zeal only when they arise here, shamed by the opposition of the government for reacting badly. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u137	A respectable president. Clearly, it's been quite sensitive to the highest. A marine and agricultural minister's attention was directed to the dire fact that all the issues that remain at the council represent the Minister of the Future Party. V.E.G. A minister can come into the public chair and throw in charge of members of the council as he pleases. Simply put, the problem is that the matter is quite late from the government, some of which have arrived long after a council was due to be completed, many months after the deadline. We still have big coverage from the highest level. marine and agricultural ministers, which must be completed, however, are in the middle of the summer. A respectable president. V.E.G. A marine and agricultural minister must be accused of someone other than the senators of this type of work, for that is absolutely the government itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u138	A respectable president. Of course, there is always room to debate how to win a case. When it comes to suggesting that the changes in mackerel into a job board where the experts from each category sit to discuss it - the matter is not out of the committee, the noise here at the council is not - it's at the level where you can talk about it. If members of the council have been passed by, or by the presidents, I can take it upon myself, if it would have been wise to do so, and it might have been reasonable, but it's the Jologists on the committee that's supposed to be on the subject, right? Since then, this council has not been particularly active, the government has been talking for over 24 hours below the President's conference board, in 1,400 speeches, or 1,600 talks on the President's conference board. [[Four days.]] That, of course, is a paradigm. And are events late? [[Foreground on: Yes.]] I have put matters aside that appeared in September that the council has not completed before, which is not a major problem. [[The president calls.]] There are unique cases that came late, that are correct, and I know that the committee has worked rapidly in many of them, and they can be completed if they are willing. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But it takes a choice, not just on one side, not on one side. [[Taken out on both sides.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u139	President. It's a very strange saying here at a councilroom and a little reality. First of all, we have been waiting for large government affairs for, for example, housing. There's a terrible situation at a housing market, and we're not really dealing with it. We've been invited and handled, but the bills came very late and were not working well enough. Then there are two big issues from the Ministry of finance, and they have been our conscientious work and have pushed everything else aside. They come so late that it would have been a much more honest, president, if the administrative part had acknowledged that they were very slow about these matters, and that they would have stopped a council meeting to create peace. But there's a fight here, a lot of things that aren't worked well, that's the way. Then come the subject, which is to be taken away from us in order to deal with them normally. I don't think that discussion is a good thing for most of it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u140	A respectable president. Here's why. Congress officials want to vote against our debates and their consequences in the medical system. Why? Is this because there are no policies, no solutions, and no answers when 200 health - care professionals have left their jobs? This is also a proposal to discuss the price insurance and to vote against it, a case that has been claimed to be the largest in our history, and the forward squad promised a great deal. Why don't people want to talk about it? Could it be because it turns out that there is nothing that humans can do, that they are not going to do anything? And it has, in fact, been confirmed by the chairman of the Board of Credits on a radio interview that people can't handle the insurance project. But they just don't have the balls to deal with it here. A respectable president. Our case is that there is a work here on our work so that we can provide the Commission with support and here we need to have a work programme where we are expected to have a conversation with the Minister. We cannot be kept away from conversation with the Ministers for weeks and months, a respectable president. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u141	Mr. President. The majority of the council refuse to activate the watch role of the council that has been down and the president has not wanted to activate for a few weeks now. It's not good, it's very bad. However, the president has caused this special discussion to be planned tomorrow because while the majority refuse to apply this proposal tonight, the president of the United States, according to page 60. Parliamentary meetings are scheduled for a special discussion where members of the Parliament can address whether a statement is made or an inquiry to a minister. Why is this important? Yeah, like 49th. Parliamentary convention: The activities of the European Commission are under surveillance by members of the Parliament, members of the Parliament, and members of the Parliament. The role of the Generalis is to advisers who are responsible for the administration, cr. 14th par. constitutions It's a very serious operation to provide a law on a strike that the majority of the section here approved, 200 health care professionals have quit. [[The president calls.]] This is very serious. We need to be able to have a special discussion with a minister about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u142	Mr. President. The majority have wanted to continue with summer conventions, but they do not have the confidence to take part in matters that burn on the nation. They not only burn on us in our government but on our nation, the consequences of passing laws on strikes, and the consequences of changing the tax system and giving up billions of dollars that otherwise could be used to build up the health system. These are matters that we would like to set in place, but most of the parts do not rely on him to discuss. Of course, it is very serious to continue the council here all summer, but it is not enough for the discussion of these great and urgent matters that burn on the nation. What kind of pussy is this, I just have to say it, Mr. President? If you're going to have a summer council and come in here, you're going to be with members of the House of forwarders, and you're going to say that they're ready to stay here all summer, they're going to discuss this serious matter. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u143	A respectable president. It is inevitable to set up a program of discussions about the most important issues in society. This greater part of the government must be through the consequences of the legal procedure that lost people's right to contract and ended a few days ago. It was a mistake. We warned strongly about that march. The result is to reveal the safety of patients, but the government sector does not want to discuss it. The same with the insurance policy. It is of great interest to note that there is much evidence to indicate that the growing growth and inflation that will likely make the country's home, so that the expensive debt transfers will be destroyed in a few months' time. Does the advance group want to discuss how he promised that insurance would be cut off in an instant, and now is the time to do so? [[The president calls.]] No.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u144	A respectable president. I say yes to this program proposal, which is very important and very objective. I'm asking, "Why does the greater part say no to this case?" Why? Is this because the government doesn't want to talk about the job market? Is this because the government doesn't want to discuss the Agency's promises on decommissioning insurance? Is this because the government does not want to discuss the social benefits of tax change? Is this because the board of directors does not want to talk about the safety of patients following a wide range of health care professionals? What of these four matters is so growing that most of the council do not trust to discuss the matter? What's the bad case? What is the situation that's so uncomfortable? What truth is the reality that is unbearable for present - day governments to face?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-22-134.u145	A respectable president. I'm going to present a certain hypothesis to try to answer the question why the greater part doesn't want to vote with this proposal. You see, I don't think that that's relevant to the suggestion. I think it's more about how the council works or doesn't work, more about how the contingency that we are leading up to these issues, and it's leading to the tremendous situation that remains here, and this council has become the summer council in effect. You see, I think that after all, the council failed to discuss its own plans and purposes. I feel that although here is a heavy word today, and I have no less part in it than any other, I hope we look ahead and try to find solutions to make this council work. We all owe it to the Icelandic nation. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
