ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-08-2.u1	We're moving to the highest. The prime minister of his policy for the government and will discuss it, which will be broadcast and broadcast from the International Assembly Hall. The discussion is divided into three rounds. The Prime Minister has 20 minutes to history, while the members of Congress have 12 minutes to first pass, the members of Congress have six minutes, and the third, five minutes, each of them. The order of the classes is in all of these: the forward party, the left movement, the green supply, the Independence category, the bright future, and the Pirantics. For the advance, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson speaks first - pass prime minister, the second Eygló Harðardóttir, the social and housing minister, and the third round Daðason Ánar Dedursson, 3th. Witchest. The members of the United States will be in the first round of the Árni Páll Árnason, 4th. We're out of here. "Katrín Júlíusdóttir, 11th. We're out of here. "The second and the second, Sigríður Ingadóttir, 3th. Smoke. So, third round. The speakers for the left movement ◯ green supply becomes Katrín Jakobsdóttir, 3th. Smoke. n., first round, second Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, 9th. That's the north side. , and in the third round of Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir, 8th. Smoke. n. The members of the Independence Party will be Bjarni Benediktsson, secretary of finance and economics, first round, Jón Gunnarsson 6th. We're out of here. , in the second round, and Sigrides On. Andersen, 7th. Smoke. So, third round. For Birta futures, the first round of Óttarr Proppé, the 11th. Smoke. s., in the second Brynhildur of Pétursdóttir's daughter, 10th. That's the north side. , and in third round Steingrímsson Steingmursson, 7th. We're out of here. To Pirata, Birgitta's Jónsdóttir, 12. We're out of here. "In the first round, Ásta Guðrún Helgadóttir, 10th. Smoke. So, second round, and Helgi 10 of Hrafn Gunnarsson. Smoke. n., third.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-08-2.u2	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. We have recently observed news of events that remind us of how grateful we can be for the life that our good land and peaceful society have prepared us so far from the world's war path. This situation obligates us to move those in need to help in the best way we can, as I will later turn aside. We live in a good country where strong communities, infrastructure, and resources are such that no one is supposed to suffer want. Of course, much is still unworked, and unfortunately, too many still live under difficult circumstances. The day will never come when all political assignments can be said to be completed, but with optimism and willingness to do better for all the inhabitants of the country, there can be a long way. Our ability to accomplish an incomplete task and to cope with challenges will be far greater if we recognize the results we have already obtained and let it move us to do even more. Some countries have made progress as rapidly as Iceland has in the last two years. This has occurred at the same time that neighboring nations in our business countries continue to face severe economic hardships that are beyond our reach. Economically, Iceland has grown to European countries since 2013. Remuneration rates have increased by 10% from the start of the forwarding administration and the independence party. This is an outstanding achievement in international comparison. All the international assessment companies raised Iceland's credit score for the summer after an introduction to capital evasion. Such an increase will lead to better loans and decrease in interest rates. According to the 2016 fiscal bill introduced earlier today, the Icelandic government will be removed by the third year in a row, and the rest of the business will likely be relatively more than anywhere else in Europe, with the exception of Norway. This is of utmost importance because, unlike most European countries, we have stopped collecting debt. We're paying them down. Instead of pushing the problem ahead of us and adding added burdens to the future generation, we are making an advantage for the future, enabling us to make more use of the more important things, the welfare system, and the strong infrastructure. But even if the United States is driven by waste, we will contribute to all the most important issues, not just a dollar but a real value. The pensions of older citizens and disability may be expected to increase more in the next year than he has ever done before. Yet, governments are aware that this is not a time to stop. Health contributions have never been the same. The same is true of contributions to almost all well - being, social and social security. For example, a clear increase in health and social contributions during the term is 26 billion. and has left behind both raises and prices. This means that half of the Lands Hospital was added to the welfare spending during the first part of the season. There is no chance that there will be an even greater degree of space in the years to come. Thus, it can be said that the government is now introducing the welfare law. In fact, the financial bill comes with a very large and unusual notice, but it also has a positive outlook. With the release of funds and the development of broken - up banks, the status of the state funds and the possibility of meeting basic services will greatly improve. Although the hundreds of billions of stable tax will not be replaced, correction of the state's position will mean that we can build faster where interest charges will decrease. This is not to be taken into account until it has become an object. It can therefore be assumed that national fanciful measures, such as fiber - opticization, will be more effective, but the preparation of the big ones is now over. The condition of the Icelanders has improved faster than any other country's votes. If we prevent the inflation from moving on, continued restitution can be expected. Never has there been so much behind such high rates of pay as in the last contracts. Nevertheless, there is reason to be concerned about the prospect of raising the pay grade, so that they do not return in the way that was established. So it is important that we work together to increase production and value production so that pay increases do not lose by increasing prices. Sadly, rapid growth of the economy and high pay increases often lead to increased division, but this is not the case, not now. Now it has occurred in Iceland at the same time as economic growth is increasing, and pay has increased to a greater extent than have been reported in the country's history. In 2014, income distribution became more balanced, and income balance is now greater than in other countries. In many lands, it is now a great deal of information on how to cope with the growing indiscretions. There, people set goals to reach their destination in years or decades, to the same degree that we have already achieved. The largest action by the government is all in terms of the rightness of the homes and the betterment of the country. The financial bill is an important part of that work. This involves significant changes in government taxation and payment, with the goal of strengthening the home accounts of people with income less and less income. In this way it can continue to be expected that the benefits of all benefits will continue, but particularly between gross and low-employers, thus improving the standard of living in Iceland, will continue to increase. Tax taxes lower and intermediate groups fall, and tolls will be removed from over 1,600 goods, thus strengthening the position of Icelandic consumers and Icelandic traders. Inland foods have for years held back in Iceland from inflation. Now the drop of others is to be returned the same thing. But it is important that shops continue to make the major declines that will result in toll decommission. There, the public needs to be on guard. Iceland's economic situation has grown strong recently and is now well characterised by stability with low inflation, low unemployment, increased buying power, decreased debt, and leaning government. We will experience the longest continuous economy in recent Iceland's economic history. History teaches us that we need to be careful when positive currents play on us. In particular, the situation in the work market is critical and has been for some time now. It is important that the workers of the labour market, both in public and in public employment markets, take the initiative and cut off the lure of what they think is the worst. Otherwise, it is unlikely that we will be able to catch the workforce that is necessary for inflation to be manageable. Otherwise, it will be replaced, just as it has made the majority of the republican era. The labour market partners also need to use the opportunity now available to cooperate with the government to improve the financial systems of the country rather than protect the entire network of insurance. In the government declaration on housing issues involving collective agreements at the end of May it shows that a project with a building of up to 2,300 social renters will be attacked in the years 2016-52019, although up to a maximum of 600 apartments a year. There are just as many apartments and apartments in Egls, as does Isenfidir combined. If a special community was not available, it would be the tenth of the country's largest rural society. The new apartments will be especially able to meet people in the lowest two levels of income. Thus money - stricken families will be provided with access to cheap, secure rented houses. There is also a new housing improvement system, which includes a significant increase in support of tenants. A respectable president. Hospital donations have grown dramatically during the election season and will continue in the next year, but it is also important not to forget that health services are larger than only the Landspians and in many parts of the country, health institutions have not yet regained their strength. So we will have to act. At the same time, we need to continue to increase the number of nurses, but the plan for the construction of three nursing homes is now being completed with about 200 new nurses. Health care will be strengthened as the patient's first stop and the patient's payment will be adjusted to protect those in particular who need much health care. Thus, they pay no more than a fixed peak each year. A major function is under way to shorten a waiting list for a strike. With collective agreements and results of a court order, jobs in Icelandic health care are becoming competitive at comparable jobs in other parts of the North. The most efficient investment possible for any health care professional is prevention. This is especially true for a nation in which the average age will increase in years and decades. Therefore, the Ministers' Committee for Public Health is now working to prepare and implement efforts to improve the health and quality of the population of all ages. But more is needed to improve the quality of life in the country. That's where education is crucial. Our future success as a nation will wonder how it works through education, research, and science. There is evidence that in recent years Icelands have fallen back from controlled countries in various fields of education, including in primary education of children in reading and mathematics. The minister of education and the government are responding to this with an effort to promote the locks and improve the effectiveness of the education system from high school to college. The productions for scientific, research, and development work will continue to increase dramatically, while simple regulations, positive incentives, and increasing sectoral emphasis will lead to a host of ideas becoming reality and create a great deal of value for society in the future. At the same time, the construction of major civilizations is under way after a major cutoff in the past few years, as well as a growing wealth of culture and art. In particular, a child's culture will be considered in this regard. The results of recent Icelandic athletes are awesome and important to remember that they are the product of the tireless work of the athletes themselves, their team members, the sports movement, and the building up of the past years. In accordance with the Treaty, support for members of the sports and juvenile community will be increased as well as voluntary movement, such as the rescue forces and other helper groups. Excessive growth in tourism has not resulted from itself. We need to adjust our circumstances so that the benefits of this largest export and the success of the future will be successful. There is no short - term simple economic hope with cheap unattractive buildings and inundated nature. Travel policies are being coordinated. A tourist position has been promoted, and the government stresses a simple rule for the article and for the general career. Many smaller companies have had to spend excessive amounts of time and effort on complex regulations. This reduces innovation and poses a risk to underground activity. A single portal is being developed so that all data can be returned and applied in one place. These changes will no less have a positive effect on larger business and industry. In fact, it is a special pleasure to know that there are many major industrial projects in Iceland at this time. Investors, abroad and abroad, have gained great faith in the future of the country. To defend the success that has been achieved and to continue moving forward, it is important to appreciate the results that have been obtained. Iceland has been successful in many fields, but there are two more than two ways in which Iceland can provide guidance, environment, and sea transport to other countries. Almost all Icelandic energy is produced by environmentally-renewable energy sources. No other country can reach the same percentage of green energy. The number of electricity cars and other environmentally friendly vehicles is now being increased, and even ships may be powered by electricity in the future, as Húsavík has already shown. Thus, there is a problem with the fact that in this country it is sometimes spoken as though energy production is sinful, not to mention the industry that uses the energy. The other stage is a fishing road. In most parts of the world, unsavoured fish are of little value, and the fishing grounds in the controlled countries are rich at the same time as fish stocks are overfished. This country has managed to maneuver matters so that the fishing industry is providing significant income at the same time that the institutions are being used in a sustainable way and it has become the foundation of great innovations and a number of successful innovations. Admit that Iceland is doing well in environmental and marine waters, and let this motivate us to do even more. New nature protection laws and national planning, as well as increased forestry contributions and land healing are among the things that will help us to protect the environment even better. In the fishing industry, we will emphasise on continuing to build fish stocks and promoting greater wealth production but at the same time working against integration in this article and maintaining jobs in rural areas throughout the country. A respectable president. The work of the Committee's review aims to achieve significant and significant changes in resource structure and historical change towards vastly improved democracy. I encourage the continued good cooperation of all classes. In the autumn Summit, the aim is to provide a bill for an intermediate level with the goal of trusting in a judicial system and securing the rightness. During the following weeks, a new estimate of interest due to instruments and solutions is also presented in the North Sea. It is of utmost importance that we succeed in making good use of the opportunities we have because of evolution there. Good citizens of the country. Many things are going well in Iceland these days, and we have reason to be optimistic about the future. But this also means that we have both the chance and the duty to do good for the nations that are in a crisislike state. The war in Syria has now lasted for four years, and it is estimated that more than half of the population has abandoned their homes, some 12 million people. Worldwide, there are an estimated 60 million refugees. Although the tide of refugees in Europe has not been around since recently, there has been a rapid increase in the number of people's awareness and discussions about the problem. The Icelandic government believes that we and other nations will respond as well as we can. Hence, a minister's committee on the affairs of refugees and immigrants was arranged to coordinate the work of recruitment and institutions to the most successful. We have also seen the great kindness and helpfulness of the public in Iceland and in many countries and in many ways willing to do good. That's important. The problem is so big, it will need international cooperation to deal with it. It is an international problem, and governments in different countries must agree on how, policy, and goals. The solution is enormous. We will need to make significant contributions to the seminary and prepare preparation to deal with the recent developments that we have seen. But we also need to evaluate things such as whether they can simplify the adoption of children from Syria or other war - torn lands. Today, thousands of Syrian children are orphans and live under difficult circumstances. In all its activities Iceland and other European countries must be careful not to broadcast the message that they will help people only if they search for crime and risk their lives to reach Europe. Therefore, we also need to consider the vast number of refugees living in the most difficult circumstances in the regions of Syria. No doubt, all of us agree that we should stress our ability to carry out our duties and our willingness to help people in need to the best of our ability. A respectable president. Iceland is a good country. It's better today than yesterday and it'll be better tomorrow. The standard of living is improving rapidly. Economic equations are no greater, and they are still increasing. We enjoy security in a beautiful, clean, wholesome environment. Each day, innovations and new progressive enterprises are formed. The Kingdom also seeks to improve its business and its service as well as to help the nations in need. In the United States, construction and progress are everywhere. Yet, we are still faced with large solutions. Experience shows that we can solve our problems and new opportunities. To do so, we need to appreciate what we have done well and to be motivated to do it even more. We have, and so we will continue.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-08-2.u3	A respectable president. Good Icelanders. I'd like to say hello to you at home and ask you to come with me on a short journey, close your eyes, and imagine that we've come up in the water cold in the sun and gentle and wide. Let's imagine that there are more people on Lake Bay, there are plenty of people on Lake Bay, but not as crowded as we can get our hands out. We've got people in sight. Now let's imagine that we've arrived in London. They just don't scare people on the streets and don't scare them in the subways because they're all on Lakeline. We came to Syria. There's nobody there, there's no fighting, there's nothing, all the people up there on Lake Bay. China - empty. India - empty. When we open our eyes, are we really going to argue that the world is so big that we cannot influence it to change and the crowd so great that we don't understand who it is? No, it's not like that. Is it not perhaps that we are more convinced that our feeling of solution is correct than that what keeps us back is objections and excuses for dominant power systems? That is why it was so important to see the willingness and initiative of the Icelandic nation when they showed all the best things they could do when people acted out and offered a good spirit and assistance in the welcome of refugees. We are the victims, and it is only natural for us to draw close to refugees. Iceland was initially refugees, and if there is anything that has marked Iceland since the release of the Icelandic slave labor, the storage, by the end of the 19th century, it is a continuous migration of citizens. The exchange between the European public has been to pursue employment wherever it is to be found, search for opportunities, empty the countryside, chase after Canadian work, British work, herring, fishing. Because the dream of a better life, the dream of doing better for us, and our children is united and eternal, the whole part of the country was emptied and others built up. Even today, people are moving in search of a better life, but for the first time since the western voyage, this move is not taking place in Iceland. The people who moved to neighboring countries after a collapse are not coming home, and last year the evacuation took place. The recent news conferences show us pictures of a world of dreams, and it's amazing to see the difference between the standard of living and how people we see in our neighboring countries and here. People describe a world that we know of only one reason, the mortgages that are reduced when it is paid, housing increase below 2%, and no insurance, or maternity for 12◯18 months that guarantees partnership with children, usually twice as much pay as here and a shorter period of work, secure rent housing, a health system run for public tax money, and do not call for expenses all day and less food. That's a long way to count. Why might it be that when people describe our next neighboring countries and the existence of ordinary people there, they feel that they are describing a faraway dreamland? Where have we been dressed for flight? We can't accept the same situation and accept the fact that people are moving out, we have to move this situation in. Our most important project is to build a future for people in Iceland. The United States and politics are lost in a struggle over the past. This can't go on like this anymore, we need a professional revolution, control and well-being. The premise of reversal is that there will be better paid jobs here, and this requires that we rely on our knowledge. All our power is to increase the increase in knowledge jobs and make Iceland the best country in the world to develop ideas and implement them. Knowledge work can grow indefinitely, it takes no space, it doesn't work on the combined resources of all of us. Therefore, we are to follow an example, e.g. to the good results we see in the sports field. What does the result other than the physical success of the athletes? Yes, we invest in the best knowledge and technology to lay the foundation for this success. If we rely on knowledge, we will enjoy the fruits. The education system must be supported by innovation. The government wants to turn the colleges into a highway for those who can make it fast. There's never been a problem in Iceland getting over in high school fast, but we haven't been able to take care that high school serves those who have had trouble with their feet there, and now it's the government's shutting down the way for people to get professional experience and then get back into high school, with more experience. We need a higher standard of health care, which is paid in taxes because people do not accept anything other than those in neighboring lands. And we need a top-level social service, if the people are to want to take the fight with us, the family here must be comparable to what they're doing in neighboring countries. When today's budget is read, the government is making wealth when it comes to strengthening the child - saving system, the growth - saving system, the rent - out system, and the birthworm and making these factors really comparable to what is found in neighboring countries. As the government now aims to achieve, elderly and poorer people cannot be transformed into what few are in the labour market. You can't make any wealth available in a nursing home and put people in uncertainty about living on a lifetime basis. Good Icelanders. I've noticed the messages you've sent me, my party and all of us in this room during the surveys of the past few months. I want to tell you very clearly that we in the United States are listening. The last assembly was huge, conflict was severe, and the council had little success, making few decisions in relation to the work period. It showed a frightening appearance to the nation, and now we must take advantage of the historical opportunity we have to change in basic ways in this institution by allowing a third of the senators to refer matters to national regulations. Then, in the United States, we are ready to take part in basic changes in the way we do things, shorten the time of the talk, and make the General Assembly and the work force here so that it is important to do so. The principles of order, you see, need to be sound. We saw it so well last year. Change in constitution is not some quality project that counts. The most difficult conflict last year was precisely whether or not certain resources could be given to the national community and whether people could be introduced to the promise to make a decision on a fundamental basis, such as the European Union's Member States. We can now give the nation access to the Constitution of regulations that allow the nation to bring a legal case to national terms, as well as to ensure national possession of resources. All the groups represented in this hall have ever promised this to the nation. I think the message we receive from the nation is that the political parties are actually on their last chance. Now, if you let this opportunity slip by, I think it is a declaration that the political system is not enough to achieve the fundamental changes in national harmony. In harmony with what the nation has expressed, the changes to the Constitution must continue to be carried on in harmony with the will that the nation has made. In this case, mistakes have been made, and I am not innocent of them. Good Icelanders. We're living amazing changes. On one occasion, the groups ruled what was on the program, had the program, even thought that they had people, gave out facilities, and carried out jobs. The party was set up against this immoral politics. Blessings have changed so much, technological advances have now enabled people to notice what they want. Motivation and the ability of people to act in an unprecedented way. Tens of thousands of people are signing protests against the administration of the macroil strain. Thousands responded quickly and offered help to obtain refugees. Tens of thousands of marches to protest sexual violence, and joy marches were a record. There is nothing lacking in the nation's will to act on the issue of justice. Just as we were convinced of it earlier when we went up to Lake Bay that we could change the world, we can also change Iceland. We can create a society here that attracts our people, welcomes guests, and provides us with equal opportunities and dignity.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-08-2.u4	A respectable president. My fellow Americans. Politicians are sometimes accused of short - term thinking, that the interests of the moment are more involved in their actions than in long - term public interests. This is a familiar theme of public discussions as well as the requirement for long - term guidance. There are many who feel that the collapse hasn't taught us anything, but I think it taught us a lot, including. The fact that politicians can no longer ignore the common public's natural requirement that we have long - term reasons to guide us in all of our jobs, a requirement for us to be guided by sustainable developments in all our professions. Sadly, this has not been the case during this ideal period, for the present government has worked too hard to reverse everything that the last one did without any special thought about long - term reasons. If the last government did something, it must be bad. It is so strongly said that there was nothing else to be heard at the very height. A prime minister who spoke earlier, but in fact, Icelandic chronology began when his government began. Here was the spring of 2013, but since then everything has been going well. Minister. To be honest, many people have become bored when politicians, no matter where they stand, speak as if they were the beginning and end of everything, and perhaps the explanation for the mismanagement of a sitting government as well as the majority of those in the opposition. Most of us can admit that since collapse most of us have agreed to build an economy and a community. Likely, it would never have been successful except for this concerted effort. It is such concordats that produce results rather than the highest level of mineral government. The prime minister seems to be in favor. My fellow Americans. I visited one of the largest rural societies in the country, Aarneshrepp on the beach, these days. Among other things, I visited the Finnbog State School, where students shared their interests with me. One teenage student drew out an old edition of Iceland's novels in a narrow library and told me that he wanted nothing more than to study Iceland history and later in the United States literature. We all have dreams and our hopes. My son told me the other day that he wanted nothing more than to be a ministry minister when he grew up. I myself, according to my 1984 book Class, was going to be a pop star, but as a precaution, I was going to be a surgeon. Neither dream has come true, but it was not because I could not get a chance. Today, we daily look at adults and children who do not have the opportunity to fulfill their dreams. There is no difference between our children in Reykjavík, Arnesf, or Syria. They want to live and to rejoice, but their opportunities are not the same. The difference between Reykjavík and Aarneshrepps is enough, since residents are often trapped for months because of closed roads and bad weather. What a contrast there is between opportunities in Reykjavík, where some children can afford to study music, sports, and other leisure activities! Some children know where they will live for the next month. Others live under the circumstances that the family cannot make ends meet for months, even if nothing is destroyed unless the basic necessities of life are gone. What, then, can we say about the circumstances of the children who have now fled their homeland of Syria, who set out over the Mediterranean in the light of a small sleazy smuggler's hands; and when they arrive at their destination, their refugee camps often await, absolute uncertainty. Some never get there, some wait to drown along the way and to beach on a beach like Alyan Kurdi, a three - year - old boy. Perhaps he only dreamed of continuing to wake up in his family's arms in the morning and of living the life that so many of us are doing. And some may want to settle this case so that they cannot think only of those who appear in the news movies, but do not forget, my fellow Americans, that the people of this picture are of flesh and blood. Its reality reflects the reality of many, and we are not to water up for such pictures but to act with fellow feeling. We must not look away. If we really want our fellow humans to fulfill their dreams, we must think about our position in the national community, applying ourselves to peaceful solutions wherever they may come, so that most people do not have to flee. Remember, no one is running for fun. Similarly, when we discuss the situation now, let us not forget that the Western countries are responsible for the situation in the Middle East, and this responsibility places us on a heavy duty. We can do better, and we are to receive much more people in need. The fact is, not all have the opportunity to fulfill their dreams. We live inexorably on this earth, unsettling within our little society between classes, between parts of the land, even greater inequities between parts of the world. But as soon as we live inexorably, we know that there is money, there is an opportunity. The French economist Thomas Piketty, who has been very concerned with the last loss, concludes with the words: ▪ The entire population should study money, the standards of money being used, the facts related to money. History shows that those who have money never fail in protecting their interests. However, refusing to deal with the numbers seldom serves the interests of the earners, and the figures need to be put in context. The richest 0.1% of all the world's wealth, the richest 1%, has about 50% of all the world's wealth. If it is meant that everyone has the right to equal opportunities, we should take action to ensure that it is possible to do so. We need to reevaluate how we divide this cake. This requires drastic action and change of thinking. And we need to realize that the financial system is man's work and does not obey any physical laws. The system is to serve the people, not itself. Changes in thinking, e.g. has come to realize that some debts cannot be paid without the sacrifice too much for the general public. A respectable president. It is the impression that the right forces have been allowed to control the economic debate over the last three or four decades. There is no reason for that. If our guide is that the system should serve the people, not the people, then we will change this discussion. I believe the Icelanders want to change in this field, and this demand is especially reflected in the requirement for democracies. As we know, much work was done during the last term so that the Icelanders could obtain a new constitution. That work did not end as many hoped it would, but I certainly hope that during this council the resources will become common to the nation, that a new environmental and natural protection directive will be agreed upon, and that a certain section of the nation and assembly can demand national payment on certain matters; as well as that there will be better prepared for the expedient authority of the state. I believe that if it happens to be, we will win a great breakthrough. Thus, the change in constitution is not complete, for we must work in harmony with the will of the nation that has already been shown by national law. But we can cooperate with him if that is what is needed rather than risking the entire matter for success that is not permanent. However, if there is no agreement to make any changes during this terms, the lines should be clear to the next election between those who want to follow the nation's will in these matters and those who strive to avoid changing the balance of power in the country. From the beginning, the Constitution has been about power, and who is responsible for it? Good Icelanders. That caught my attention at the top. The prime minister did not mention one of the major issues of today's climate. He said that the notorious ideas of more mines that sailed on the coast here in spring turned about transport energy change rather than a new plant. V.E.G. Ministers know better and should prefer to agree that Iceland and I use our energy so that Iceland can be at the tip of climate change, becoming a non-carbon land for 2050. There should be a message for Icelanders at the Paris Climate Conference in December, a meeting that may determine the outcome of our future and our children's lives. The dreams of children around the world require that we think for longer than the next time we lose when we make decisions. The dreams of children around the world require that Icelanders take good care of themselves before making decisions that will irrefutablely make customs of the natural world. The dreams of children all over the world require that the people of the country be given more power over their own fate, that we strengthen direct democracy, but also representative democracy, so that our community is controlled by the transparent and democratic means, and the voices of all people. The dreams of children around the world require that we take drastic measures to revise the change in the cookie. This does not necessarily mean that those who have the best possible opportunity to accumulate more wealth. There are no natural laws behind that arrangement, although sometimes advocates of the same state speak. This is the work of men, and humans can change it. It is the foundation of democracy and good society that we invest in education, research, and innovation, and we should allow schools to develop to the greatest degree, that as many as possible use their ability to develop and grow into strong citizens in a powerful society. Schools need to reflect the fast changes in society, but they can also become a force for change, and this is the result of variety. Investment in research and innovation will bring an increase in prosperity for the general public, and it is the foundation of society that we invest in wood, transport, and communications so that regardless of the facilities, as many new ideas and the ability to fulfill our dreams, whether building up a sushi-place in Suspiration or a travel service in the Deepvas. They have to invest in health care so that people all over the country can enjoy safety and well - being. Above all, our wealth is in people, and that is why it is necessary to ensure all basic progress, including micropier and older citizens, who have been left with all the rights to the same opportunities as others. And it also makes a big difference in ensuring legal rights in most areas, reducing public payment when it comes to health care and other basic services. Good Icelanders. With increasing equality, new economic and environmental thinking, increasing democracy, and the clear vision that the profits, the profits of our resources, the gains of our resources, not our people's home, the future can be great. Then it is important that politicians look for long - term, not all about themselves, and their short life in a long history, since that is a long - term, long - term thought that results, whether in soccer, art, or politics. The time of deforestation, with the short - term interest of the few at the expense of the long - term interests of the many, has passed. The sooner we get here in this room, the better.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-08-2.u5	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. It's got a bit of mixed emotions that you come across this time, one with a tremendous economic situation that appears to us on a new budget, that we are growing stronger, our position to improve in the future in so many areas to improve, and we are experiencing one of the longest economic growths in the later economic history of the country, while we are still in the position that the World Council of the United States enjoys an unusually limited trust from the nation. I recall that when I came to work at the General Assembly in 2003, at that time I was concerned about the key office of the council and that it had always been as the highest authority of the Agency on the basis of the constitution that we are working for. It is also here that the basis for the Constitution was laid for national independence, for the sovereignty, and for so many major decisions that have affected the development of society, the lives of all the people in this country, and for the progress and improvement of the life span of the nation. These decisions were made. The red thread in so many of the developments I am referring to the fact that the council had more confidence in people to resolve their own issues. It doesn't matter whether we look back at this year 100 years after women received the election, such as we celebrated in a memorable way during the summer, or we review other self - evident developments that may seem somewhat odd in modern society, such as that in the 1980's there was no free radio in Iceland. We changed it here. It was not free to sell beer, either to buy it in the store or to get it at a restaurant, 30 years ago. The government's involvement in commercial affairs, direct involvement in the state of the economy, was also relatively recently much higher than it is today in the shipping business, a variety of operations, an overexploited involvement in financial markets, etc. We took a substantial portion of the '90's to work out how we really wanted the State's role in the business. It didn't happen without a fight, but I think we've got a very good result in it. I am referring to this subject, as well as the fact that in recent decades we have been lucky to take long notice of trying to ensure responsible government of the money. I bring these matters to our attention when it comes to the situation of the council today, and I mentioned earlier that people feel that there is no reason to trust us better than they really do. Perhaps we stand in front of more small, even large, opinions that show that we have not yet come to trust people in the way they feel they should see from the council. I think we have a lot of cases like that. Last day, we heard from our professional career calling for more insurance money to be dropped. It is by nature a matter of freedom. It is asking for more relief from work to allow ideas to thrive, to take root, to put up resistance, to employ people, and to put ideas into action. By nature, it is a matter of freedom. However, many more freedoms have also been discussed in recent years. We should continue to discuss them and examine them with regard to this approach. Can I mention it here if we trust the people in the country to get alcohol at regular stores or not? To me, that's a very obvious thing. It is the wrong message from the council not to trust people to buy alcohol at regular stores, that government employees are needed to deliver such products over the store table. That's the wrong message. The budget bill that was submitted to the council today also presents a case of another kind. In its very nature, tax issues are also freedom issues. We leave more with people to control our affairs. This applies both to the job and to the employee in the country who are immediately granted the next year to keep a larger share of their income at the end of the month than it did this year, and we continue in 2017. Determination of tolls subsequent to the decommissionment of merchandise is also a matter of freedom. It's about freedom of business, it's about consumer freedoms to fetch product without unnecessary drug control on the part of the state. In recent years, customs on such spells were large sections of government income, but this has been reduced, has dropped to about 4% in 1990, and today we have the appeals of an out - of - date system. 1% of our income is about 1,600 tolls, which we are placing on all kinds of goods, from cars to baby carts, from hunting wares to electric tanks. There are infinite numbers of goods that are now time to cancel the fees. That is the furniture and the furniture, and I could continue to list them for a long time. In fact, I don't think any Icelanders have a clear view of what products we're making, and it's time to take them off. It's a matter of freedom of speech, a case that shows that we want to promote the freedom of business in the country, equal the competitiveness of our companies, the store, will establish the country's business on a competitive basis against the rest of the world. One of our biggest projects in broad context is also to ensure that Iceland will become the place for young generations where it is desirable to live. The whole world is shrinking. Not just computers and e - mailing are causing it, people's minds are changing. It has been mentioned in the above discourses. Young people's minds do not just look beyond the rocks. It can reach faraway areas, and moving across the globe seems realistic, of course, and even normal. It's all changing. This part of your work and decisions must be taken into account by the Parliament. Toll is one small matter that makes living in Iceland more attractive and ensures that Iceland's trade has more competitive conditions just as much as in the North countries, since the general value of the extra tax level in Iceland is as high or less than in the North countries. None of the northern countries have a lower worth of taxation level than we do with Iceland. I have to mention the responsibility of the government here too. When I talk about freedom and responsibility in terms of government, my mind goes to a man we missed in the council that died of earlier this year. Our friend Pétur Blöndal is not with us here to follow that discussion, but I'm sure he appreciates it from where he looks at us today that we continue this discussion. This is important for the future generations of the country and for its advancement. Let's keep in mind what I'm here trying to draw together for a few reasons that perhaps the council we're experiencing is a little less confident about and what we're doing here in that we're not sending out that message to the nation that we're really going to trust people to control their own business. At the same time, remember that one of the biggest progressive steps in our affairs was when we showed it in our actions that we would transfer power to the people so that they would control their affairs in word and deed. During this council, there will continue to be a number of important issues. This is natural when we have the class and classes elected here to be met by members of the council and special members of the council with different emphasis. However, we have a way of settling these issues according to Congress. Then there are other reasons why we should agree. I'm going to name the constitution. We've worked tremendously on the Constitution, which should be considered as a change in it. I know there are differing opinions on how far we should go in that material. I am convinced, however, that if there is a real will with all members of the council, we can make the Constitution significant changes that are important and are for the nation's advancement. They may have these symptoms that I have mentioned, that we are going to trust people even better than we have so far to resolve matters. Let me give you another subject, public financial matters. I think it was really important that we finish it. This is shown by this council, the third time. That is an example of what all classes have accomplished, and it is time for us to do so. That is the case that would show that we are going to look to the length of time and to show responsibilities in government matters. It's called for evening the poles. There is no law that the interest in Iceland is as high as it is in the past or as high as it is today. It's not a law. We're gonna have to work out some things to do to the labour market, I'm gonna go with the top. The prime minister who stressed this point in his speech. I sense the will of the labour market partners to make basic changes there. The provision of a bill to legalize public finances is a key factor in making this change and bridge a success to the workforce in this respect. There are other cases where we can get along well at the council. The international language comes to mind, associate with the nation that has been so outstanding that the heart is in the right place when distress appears from distant lands. We need to come together with the nation and provide practical, reasonable solutions in that matter and in other areas of international affairs in which Iceland can take over and use this opportunity because of the strong position we are now in to achieve its benefits internationally. In general, it must be our goal to be more effective, to do better during the council work during the winter and in the years ahead, to make the Allied a more effective organization for the nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-08-2.u6	A respectable president. Dear General. Good listeners. This is it, the season is half over, and there is good reason to ask ourselves if we have been successful. At the beginning of the 142nd Council, right after the 2013 election, I argued that coming Congress could be the best in history. I'm afraid it's a long time after the two years, but the next two years are still unwritten, and we have a chance to change in the right direction. Sometimes it is said that politics have become a competition to be right. This is not usually said in an awe - inspiring tone. Who thinks a bird is beautiful, natural? It is tempting to use every option to accomplish his will even to impose it on those who differ in the power of power or in the majority of it. It is a dangerous habit, for when the roles are reversed, the new object, once found, may use fresh force to turn things around and to force its emphasis on it. The methodology is a hook - up street that leads to a halt, for opposers of the saying system and its fans will not disappear even if one group fully accomplishes their will. That's one thing you'll never agree with. The only long - term way to make peace is by talking and cooperating with all those who come to the table, both politicians and others. During recent conventions, we have experienced both good and bad. We have seen things that have been done on a broad scale, in consultation and incomprehensiveness. Such matters have been successful during the council, and they have made good peace. A fine example is the first steps to take in school that were approved for the summer. But we have also wasted a lot of time and infinite energy on matters that have come in without consultation, issues that have been dropped like bombs into the council and have taken everything away. Examples are the EU Memberal negotiations and proposals for activation by the Framework Programme. There was no reconciliation with that subject at either the council or in the community. An attempt to make peace was not made, and there was never a chance for any reconciliation. Self - trust is not something that can be ordered or demanded. A bright future is a new political force. We are political to do good and to be reformed. Environment and human rights are what we love, and we choose to wear them glasses on as much as possible. However, we are not only founded on better practice and long - term thinking, on making a plan, a plan that can last, and that can become a reality, a plan that is something other than the words of emptyness or mental exercise. A real plan can be created only when it reaches a wide set of solidarity for all to share in it as a common partnership. With that attitude, we have drawn close to the council. We have handled good matters wherever they come from, and we have successfully resisted bad things. We do not intend to make a change, and we are proud of that work. Above all, we have offered and called after our long - term thoughts, conversation, and cooperation at the council. We want to help change and improve the process. We're ready at any time. Let's roll up the sleeves whenever we can. At the council, for some reason, I have often thought of an Indian independence hero named Mahatma Gandhis. In his struggle, Gandhi traveled across India all over, talked to people, and listened. He was ascetic, but he was a total workhorse and traveled with a large group of people. Despite the urgency, one thing was certain, and it was that an hour and a half a day was set aside for meditation. One day, his helpers did not see beyond the program. Then our man informs us: There is so much to do that today I will not meditate for an hour. The helpers were beautiful, but above all, they were amazed because this had never happened before. ▪ Today, it is so much to do, when Gandhi was told, we need to consider for two hours. Hot heart, cold head. Although there are many challenges and challenges, we must take time and/or empty time to solve them properly. And all the hands of a river. We live in remarkable times, we have major changes all around us and in ourselves, not just these losses, but just these decades. The world is changing. Iceland is changing too. These changes are larger than those that are related only to the economic breakdown and its consequences. These changes are linked to the greenhouse effect and overuse of the earth's resources, the gross increase in refugees, the cross-resurrections rising, the collapses and collapses of currency here and there on stupid confusion, etc. We overuse the earth, and that is not a good business, for future generations will receive it and live on this earth, and we will have no backup. The Internet, changing the production process, globalisation, the resolution of world powers, the increase in travel opportunities between countries and continents, all of this has led to dramatic changes in the lifestyle and quality of life of people, our communities, and our prospects for life. Iceland goes through many of these changes simply because we're part of the world and we're dependent on it. It is on top of the changes we have experienced since the collapse of both the financial crisis and the spiritual ones that can simply be compared to post - traumatic stress. Sister Rúnar Júlíusson often said: "It often dwells in the traumas. This is true in many ways for the years after the collapse, for as the economic events collapsed, and trust in society's institutions collapsed, new ideas about other ways, values, and other methodologies arose. Today there is a great conflict in Icelandic society, but it is not just about power and influence; it is not limited to the right or left; national or capital area; or capital area; nor is it the capitalist of capital or public. This conflict is about the fundamental changes, whether we are going to do things differently, in a democratic way, to build up for the future, and to jump in real life, or whether we will continue to lean on what we are accustomed to, even though our experience has not always shown us that it is good. This same conflict is visible worldwide as we look at the environmental issues, the debate on the dissociation of wealth in society and between countries. I don't think it's a coincidence that the lines in this conflict are more between generations than groups. The world is changing, and it has been that way for the last two, three decades, and it continues to do so. Those who are younger have simply grown up with these changes. They realize that the stillness and the old solutions are no longer acceptable. We sometimes talk about the lack of trust in Icelandic society. Public trust in the Generals and political parties is frozen. It's bad, but it's not a public problem. We must have a problem here. Could it be that such distrust is based on a lack of faith that we, at times, in politics are aware of the changes in the world? We need to prove it wrong, all of the council members. We need to be aware of and ready to bring changes to good even if this is difficult or even strange. I'm gonna talk about feelings. People's attitude toward one another, men, and languages is based on emotion. It also applies to the politics and affairs of society, which are the realm of government and Generality. The public is well - versed in the language, and he has strong, well - thought - out opinions on complex subjects, even though he is not in the full - time service as we are sitting here, the subject we generals face is helping experts to understand. A press conference is a seminar, and our role is to speak. Our role, though, is to listen and converse with the common people. The way we listen, or maybe how people feel that we sometimes don't listen, I think it's more important to the public if they feel that the Allied Council is worthy of trust. You can't talk about feelings without referring to the problems of refugees, and in my case, without referring to the giant Jóhann Pétursson. The problem of refugees has weighed heavily on my heart recently, as on the hearts of all the people of the land. It is an unpleasant feeling that we cannot do more to help people in need, to escape in order to save our children's lives and lives. Last summer, I was traveling through the Devo Museum at Dalvik. There's a show about the local man, Jóhann, the risi. Jóhann grew up in the crisis and grew up to be a young giant. He destroyed his feet by practicing too little shoes in the sea. In the end, Jóhann could not see how he could support himself in Iceland and move outside to do his own show job, a job that he always had on which he was ashamed, but the crisis teaches... and all that. Jóhann was actually a fugitive from his own country. I've always experienced that we Icelanders have always been ashamed of the lot of Jóhann the risi. We understand his story because he was a noted man, an educated good man, he was from the same environment as our grandparents. Similarly, at the beginning of World War II, we Icelanders are ashamed of our inactivity toward Jews in flight. Now there are more people on the run than ever in the last decades. We Icelands have a moral obligation to make better contact with refugees, but of course we need to make sure that they are properly and carefully held. It's a huge project. I welcome the Minister's Committee on Refugee Affairs. In a bright future, we are invited and equipped to do what we can to help and support good works. Dear General. Let's do better. We have two years of unwritten. Let's do a good job, but not a bad one. Let us promote justice and fight injustice. I have full faith in us generals. We're people. Let's just work like people and be like people. - Good times and good trip.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-08-2.u7	President. Before speaking to the people of the country, I would like to begin by thanking an advanced senator named Jón Þór Ólafsson for his memorable cooperation over the last two years here at the General Assembly. My fellow Americans. I'd like to see that we senators and I are unable to challenge any objections when the President of the Republic masses us at the beginning of every assembly, as he did today, to use the opportunity and challenge the claims of the president. The president tailored some very important points in his hearing on the possible national legal fees for responsoring with the election. First of all, this is unnecessary concern with our president Ólafur Ragnar Grímsson that elections for the Constitution in conjunction with the election will be irreverent. This is the only possible way to ensure the participation of the public sufficiently in order to offset the irresistibly 40% participation branches placed in the provisional regulations of the Constitution. The fact is, if the changes are made, more than 80% of all will have to be included in the terms of a vote to obtain a vote for the voters. The very best and most loyal way to get people to vote is by elections, such as elections or elections. It is worth noting that there are no comparable democracies or elections involved. The president also said in his earlier speech that a narrow time limit and savings impulse should not jeopardize the quality of the project. Dear President of the Republic, it is my pleasure to inform you that these are not the motivations to ask together these two elections, the motivations are primarily to ensure good participation. The president also said today that a challenge is needed. I can assure our fine president that there have been a problem with countless experts and finds, and I think it is surprising that the President will make the scene so unattainable that there is no further explanation for the cause of this distrust before the conclusion is realized. It is clear that the president of the Republic has moved into dangerous, arbitrary paths against the Senate today, and under which I cannot sit without fully contradicting. Clearly, someone needs to volunteer to perform the role of a president who cares about the direct democracy and who is ready to release the taking of the verbal shots to the nation himself. But then I turn to the main subject of the evening, Prime Minister, then, in my mind, a beautiful, wishful child celebration came when I read the speech this morning, a song that I often sang as a child, and I saw the highest. My prime minister is alive with pensil and a drawing sheet in the metaphor of this poem I will paint the whole world, my dear mother. The talk reflects a cartoon of prime minister who has an urgent problem with beautiful words and colors. Budgets do not promise that there will be a solution to many basic health problems, to the housing system, or to the storm clouds in the international financial systems; nor can there be such problems in the Constitution. It contains many beautiful promises that do not take place in the laws. So I took this liberty, and I only made out the baby's skin, with the permission of a president: I will paint the whole world, beloved Icelander. All clear sunshine, bright and equal. Though it be dark in the days of cold and light, Your days will be lights all the same. The Little Flowers You Would Like to Buy I'll look here at my drawing form. I will paint the whole world, beloved Icelander. I always shine in your house. Icelander, are you sad? Tell me what's wrong, I'm sure I can paint joy on it ♪ A lot of beautiful colours I got for you ♪ Don't cry, Icelander - smile for me. Make a wish, O Icelander, whatsoever thou wilt have. Yet I have colours for every thing. All the world's stars and adventures Have a wish, Icelander, that I may dye them all. But I don't want to be with all negative, dear people, and I wish that any request and promise and praise could be done in a simple way. The wealthy must be a guide to a real desire to do what is right. My dear people. I stand here, in the opinion of a ruler as an unwritten sheet of paper. I like it that way rather than being a paper-written paper on both sides, as traditional politicians do in the minds of many people. You see, being an unwritten magazine allows for you, yes, you can write with us. The course has not been determined ahead of you, or the course has not yet been set. We really want you to take advice. It is worth the effort that our piratian, the political center is rooted in our core policy, and our moral success is found in the piratic code. It's good to have a clear and, yes, the Honourable Minister of finance... deeply rooted in the ideologies, but there are many things we do not define to the right or to the left as we know. We define ourselves primarily as people who want human society by ensuring our civil rights in the laws as well as in the execution of human rights. Our unwritten magazine offers the ability to take advantage of the wisdom of the masses and by humbly acknowledging that there is no one or no one single force that has all the answers. Rather, it is the many perspectives based on real experience in living in the system that enables us to prepare a management device and to care for the community that is neither solid nor solid, no, much more flexible from the circumstances of every citizen in the country. Then there is a much less chance that people will fall into some systemic hell. Many things have changed in our society after the world has been given the marvelous tool of the Internet. That tool has given us an opportunity to connect with others between continents and rural communities, allowing us to gain knowledge that was not easy to access. Yet, what this tool has given us more than anything else is that opportunities to authority are far more common than before, and people can easily create communities in terrestrial worlds that produce communities in real worlds, as many examples prove. Now we're piranha in the peculiar position that we have a real chance to turn this community into a foundation. None of us were afraid of the great burdens we have had. How, though, will we use this responsibility? The pyramids and I will continue to follow the path to deal with radical change and to provide solutions in the spirit of the 21st century and at the root of radical changes and escape from the calm beaches of traditional politics. Of course, I am primarily action, a person who believes in the power and duty of individuals to change his communities if you experience, for example, injustice in society. But there is a real temptation that involves not intervening in all the same things as other early classes. It is not that kind of politics we want to participate. We can easily promise all the very needs of the changes that are being made through the bits of the present government, which is dealing with an emergency but not with the cause of the systematic problem and discrimination. It is easy to create policies, policies that can look good on paper and on speech, but to pursue a course and consider that, in turn, all its consequences are completely different and more complex. I'm not saying we can't create policies, but we can't do it properly and professionally in the present system without risking the development of the legal ecosystem. You see, the system is so complex that even well - meaning people can make things worse by changing their ways. You don't have to look beyond the insurance agency and all the complex, legal changes that often make things worse. To repair the livelihood of those of the most vulnerable groups in this area, more is needed than a piece of pieces. A complete change must take place and in order to be able to perform it, it needs access to information on how this system works and what it is to serve. Finally, I want to thank you for listening to us. Let us be the change we want to see in our community. Let's shake up these systems and stop being scared. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-08-2.u8	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. The course of the current government, the government of the homes, isn't just some home, it's all about home. This is reflected in the budget bill presented at the Council today. For the third time, there is a baseless budget, with considerable waste, as we lower taxes and increase contributions to welfare, so that there has never been so much money available to them. Everyone's terms will improve, but above all, they'll prefer middle-and-low payers. Young and old, healthy as the sick, will have it better. Health insurance and unemployment improvements increase by 9.4% according to the bill next year or by a total of 9.6 billion dollars. In addition, if you look at the ups and downs since 2014 and 2015, there is a cumulative improvement to 2016 16.6%. The cumulative incidence of inflation over the same period is predicted to be 8.7%, and as a result it is clear that the cost of combustion has increased substantially. As I said, the policy of the current government, the government of the households, not just some homes, is about every home. It's about the family that we know so well, the family that we ourselves may be, the family at the labor trade, which has wandered between renters, with the related costs and pressures of the last few years, is a word that is hardly known at the Icelandic rented market. It's about a single mother in disability, with two children living in a 50 - square - inch apartment in a basement who can't afford to move because of high rent prices or simply because the apartment is not found. As for the student who thanks for renting a portion of his aunt's garage, it's simply full in his student parks a long time ago or the young couple dreaming of building their first home and wondering how to get paid for a small apartment. Or just about the old woman who is once again faced with the loss of her apartment and has to look forward to taking the bed of her grandchildren again after she lost her place. In the topography of the government, which will be submitted to this council, this emphasis on the government is crystal established in all homes, not just some. They are about to change the reality of Icelandic households, where the government's penalties have yielded significant results for homes whose home is their home. They turn to the fact that less than one third of Icelandic households are now living in rented homes, and in recent years the cost of rent families has increased substantially, while the cost of housing has been dropped by people living in their own homes. The Government's declaration on housing, in connection with collective agreements at the end of May, shows that a building project will be attacked up to 2,300 social renters in 2016-2019. To appreciate the magnitude of this campaign, less than 1,200 apartments were completed on the land in 2014. We will finance the building of the apartments with the founding of countries and rural communities and with the government's direct wax pay, which is now worth about 30% of the cost of stocks and is expected at 1.5 billion dollars. ... infinancingin the fiscal bill. The joint contributions of the state and rural society, along with increased support for improved rent-ins across the years 2016-2017, should lead to a loss of a person with low income not to a greater proportion than 203/425% of earnings. So the majority take their first steps in rent - house living. As a result, it is usually the next step to buy one's own home and finance it by means of savings, family assistance, or loans. In my mind, there is a need for stability in a housing market, and for young people to have their own housing, an active tenet where supply and demand are held, and people have room and motivation to save for housing. That is what we are doing with our proposals for housing. This is reflected, among other things, in the increase in housing improvements between 2016 and 2017, where we expect 1.1 billion dollars. in the changed housing support for tenants. We're changing the taxation income of a rented apartment owned by individuals to reduce rent prices and increase the supply of cab baths, and we're going to meet those who buy their first apartment on the road to housing. We will do everything we can to make sure that the buildings will be built in the most practical way so that as many as possible can get a safe home. These actions of the government are promises, promises we made in connection with the collective agreements that were reached in spring and the promise that the government will exist. So great steps will be taken to make our good society even better. We can and should help those who need help, both here and abroad. There is a rich will for that, both for the nation and for here at the Council. And that's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-08-2.u9	My dear Icelanders. A proud, strong nation is well equipped for the oldest and the youngest. It has equal opportunities for education. It has as much access to the more efficient welfare and health care services itself. And no one is left there in the traps of poverty. It is our vision of equal men. In winter, we await a full assignment at the council, and let me mention a few of the people whom we as a fellow worker put forth great effort to become a reality. Various other matters are mentioned by my associates, Árni Páll, and Sigríður Ingibjörg, in his talks here tonight. All of this is a realistic task that we hope to achieve for a solidarity at the council so that we can make sure Iceland will be a good choice for residence now and in the future. Let's start with health care. Even access to the health system is the basic theme of the equal policy. No one buys in advance because he is wealthy. As proficients, we want to see major changes in health care for future losses and hope that our proposals will be able to achieve a good stand during the council, and I want to draw out some specific points. First, raise money to the hospitals in the country. Hospital situation is not good enough. They do not get enough money to care for the increase in the number of projects of a population growing older and the new tremendous flow of tourists to the country. Thus, we do not have the staff, our outstanding employees, the best circumstances in life to care for our jobs. Second, more power must be put in the construction of a new hospital. I don't think anyone's gonna get in doubt that if we're going to run a health system in that building, we're going to have to attack. The facilities for patients and health care professionals in the same setting are completely unacceptable. A third decision must be reconsidered when administering or what has been called S-labelled medicinal products. How could there be an idea of how many people can receive the necessary medication in this country? For example, how could money be involved in making a decision for hepatitis C - an example well - known - but not a professional assessment of what is best for the patient? This is unacceptable, and this is what we have to change. Fourth, there is also a need to promote health care, access to it, as well as home care in cooperation with rural society. My dear Icelanders. It would seem that when governments and governments are in the position of assuming that they can get rid of income from hunting costs, rid themselves of money taxes, and the electricity tax from heavy industry, they would also have the means to live well in the health of the health system. The government's financial bill, on the other hand, calls for laxness. There is not enough force in the construction of a new hospital. The increase to the health system is largely due to agreements with specialist physicians, while there is an increase of 32.6% between years in donations to them while the increase to the Hospital reaches just one quarter of that increase. Thereafter, the government suggests that people who are sick with severe illness do not get the best medicines, medicines that can change their lives, medicines that are being given to patients in our neighboring countries. And they continue to say, "How many can take certain medicines?" We as well reject this policy of the right government on health matters and challenge the council to achieve a solidarity of health care efforts in this wintertime. My dear Icelanders. In the ensuing of our last bargains, we astrologers took our heart to the demand of about 300 of you. K. Minimum wage. We're going to join her now with a pensioner that we can't leave out on a strip in the trap of poverty. This requirement is about 300 of you. K. The minimum income is not just reasonable but so perfectly natural in terms of the cost of driving oneself and its members in Icelandic society. Is there anyone in this room who trusts to run home and all that it holds for a 192,021 year. every month? How about 219.384 k.? These are some of the income we offer to our oldest citizens. There are cases of higher income, but there are also cases of less income than what I mention here. The same can be said of a person who has no choice or alternative to living in a way that does not depend on us, his community. And that's what we're offering them. They simply do not make ends meet. This is what we have to change. We don't want it like this. So we officers have suggested an increase in pension to a minimum of 300 yous. K. which I hope will be met at the council this winter. My dear Icelanders. We partners hope to have a pleasant partnership with you in the winter, and we look forward to the conversation with you on the way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-08-2.u10	A respectable president. My fellow Americans. Once again, the government has brought up a financial bill, and once again the prime minister has given his policy speech. These annual events at the right control always produce mixed emotions, and so is the case today. The financial bill certainly shows that there are many benefits in Iceland today, and it is also evidence that the current government took on a solid location in the spring of 2013. At that time, the left government had been more successful in dealing with the worst consequences of the crash, and the work of the present government is basically small compared with the major problem then experienced. We're in control at the highest. The prime minister is a master of praise. Some of it certainly has a right. Iceland is truly a productive country in many ways and has resources well. However, as attention focuses on the exchange of interest from the use of resources that are considered to be the national partner, the eye begins to grow. The value of fishing and fishing is indeed miscalculation, and the government, the evil whole, is totally fighting the task of ensuring a legitimate share in the valuable things created from the sea's resource. It has also failed to take steps to reduce the instability of the marine environment in which the hands of hunting agencies can select them freely, leaving workers and rural groups behind without employment and employment opportunities because the right to use the resource was taken away. The budget bill contained an old recognizable theme of consumer consumption growth at the expense of real investments in infrastructure and community projects. The habit of taxes is reduced by those who have it better in the community. Tolls are offered that tend to benefit most of the money and the highest level of consumption. In this way, the right management encourages greater consumption of imported goods, despite the present economic situation. There are others, such as large growths and inflation far beyond the objective of the Federal Bank. We must stop and ask what happened to the experience from 2008 and the years that followed. Is it really forgotten by everyone except those who arranged a rescue team? As a landlady, I cannot help but describe a great disappointment in not increasing much money on road maintenance. In many countries, conditions have become more serious and cannot be offered to citizens or tourists on the same condition. The inhabitants of the land's settlement must resist this and much less when it becomes clear that the promise of a fiber - opticization is not to be fulfilled. A selection for the residence and development of tourism depends on these objects being all right. Trouble has been characterized by the smooth efforts of the right government when it comes to travel. Plans and policies in the category are involved. There is a run when things are turned to waste, and financial resources are passed over all approved procedures. Amazingly, the entire government's sleazy career in the affairs of the rest of its tourism is a man who must ask himself and the government when he intends to launch this sleazy speech and initiate the real structure of the important tourism services. V.E.G. When a prime minister speaks of his alleged achievements as well as his government, he often uses high - sounding words and is now supposed to be the equivalent of whole social housing for funds from the state's funds and funds from the local community. I sure hope that's the best. The social and housing minister, who still publishes a number of bills, is in a position to fulfill these great promises of cheap and safe housing but who does not have to endure their shipwrecks on the co - workers' rocks. A respectable president. My fellow Americans. In fact, it is now an international parish for some time, in view of the fact that since 2012 the situation in the nation's economy has improved. In such a situation, it is important to know your steps in order to become a parish, not a waste. It is also of utmost importance to have an equality and fairness toward the goal, so that not all the majority of the benefits fall into existence, as is often the case when the right course is under control, since not everyone lives in security. Prime Minister. Here on earth are large groups of people, such as pension workers, who are in need of self - reform and are crucial to them, and also for the overall interest of this community, that they will not be left behind for an uncivilized share. The 2008 economic breakdown and weakened Icelandic society. Ever since then, we have struggled with the consequences of the right course and the reckless marketism that caused it. Now that attendance opportunities are restored, we should remember past experiences and instead of launching a wave of consumption, we should invest in the interior. Instead of reducing taxes, they should be used to expand the tax and to defend the tax for repair of health, education, and social inaccessible public services. In this way, the foundation of our existence would be strengthened, and we could be more lasting as individuals, both as a community and as individuals. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-08-2.u11	My fellow Americans. The extent to which we compare ourselves in the countries in which we live is generally inferior to the commercial industry. It is very important that everyone recognizes the context of things, i.e. The production and vote of the public. Between these factors, a relationship is not broken. 20% less available than in nearby countries, a prescription for less paid people is given in this country. By enduring as a weapon, the nation has been able to build a prime society. The use of natural resources plays a key role in this. While they are indeed limited in our land, we have a wise use of what we have. In Iceland, the sector in which industry is produced is highly efficient and industrially efficient. As strange as it may sound, these are the most aggressive jobs. We must work hard to achieve a more reasonable policy in how to feed our best dairy cows as we look at ways to increase production and variety in our professional life. The so - called McKinsey report has much to say about our situation in this regard. There are many practical suggestions and warnings. For one thing, it says that one of our greatest dangers is that there is once again a permanent business hall with increased consumption as commercial investments take their place. It also emphasizes the responsibility of all parties to agree on a credible economy strategy based on the economic strengths of the economy, increase the value of limited resources, educational improvements, and the growth of international employment. As we face the facts, we will face up to our main agenda. It is our responsibility for the Generals to come to a more reasonable conclusion in that regard, and I hope that we senators will be able to get out of the holes most of which have had enough and that we will try to control the national interests under control. The government is taking an important step in increasing the competitiveness of Icelandic society. In fact, something remarkable is being achieved in a short period of time. Of course, the execution of a currency has its highest, stateless business, the removal of tax dollars in recent years, the removal of tolls for the next and the next New Year's Eves. Iceland is on its way to becoming a tax - free country. It will strengthen shops and services, including productions, and so forth. because of these problems, very low. Increased education is important, and it is vital that we promote production in the education system. It is the key to having a better salary in these articles, providing more for our children and for their lives. For many years, it has been tried to achieve changes in our education systems, making them more efficient. In the two years he's been at the Ministry, the Illugi Gunnarsson of Education has managed to take a giant step. Shortened high school, where financial gains went on to increase the teacher's salary, will gain billions of benefits for students and national preparations at hand. In contrast with what we produce in other lands, young people in our country enter a labor market at the same age as young people in our neighboring countries. The public can take much action in this study. This is especially true in the health system where the production is not acceptable. Increase of independence and construction of a new land hospital are key to my opinion. Today the government announces 1,200 million. K. a donation to correct the waiting list in our healthcare system. Some 3,500 people are waiting for cataract surgery, some 1,150 people for replacement operations, and many more examples. The financial cost of this person's illness is tremendous, not to mention the suffering of individuals involved. The increased polymorphism of the healthcare system should play a major role in the rapid and successful destruction of these repertoires. As an example of our experience in this regard, there was Þór Guðlaugur in contract with an independent medical Þórðarson at the expense of cataract surgery in 2007/2008. The cost left 240 of you. K. of 105 up. K. The agreement led to a dramatic reduction in the period of time. The same way is to go today, where there is an opportunity, and we are to build a channel for such an opportunity. There are also complex, heavy - scale regulations and surveillance systems around our job life. It is important that the government and the personnel of the labour market come together to simplify this system and that State activities and projects be reduced to free markets as possible. The most significant point is to review the time when a public - based automobile examination was made, but today a wider and better service is being provided in a global competitive market. No doubt there are many causes of slacking our position, and here everyone has some responsibility; that is true of the public and the labour market members. There will always be a relative price for a small number of people in a large and somewhat populated land. Our organization has to take into account this situation so that we can build up and work around the country. Trends in the fishing industry were predictable by the eco-efficiency drive that is built into our fishing system. The response to it should be an increase in the variety of valuables across the country. Our unnew energy resources will play a key role in this structure. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-08-2.u12	A respectable president. Ladies and gentlemen. In my speech tonight, I would like to try to get the government to see the genius of cooperation and cooperation. In the bright future, we believe that cooperation is the key to our making progress and is the most effective way to ensure a bright future. I think it's a little special standing up in this speaker's office, encouraging candidates to cooperate, but that's how life can be weird. I think seriously about what I've been experiencing here during the last two years. I often feel that ministers act a little weak, and sometimes they don't seem to receive support from other advisers. They also deal with their stakeholders and even with the government, which can be conservative, and it must be a strength for ministers to have the Parliament with them and to use the force that lies in these 63 members of Congress. I have also wondered how little political policy is going on and little about long - term thinking. Somehow, it all turns into four years. There are many important issues. I think the executives could use some help, and I'm offering assistance here on behalf of Birt's future. This lack of cooperation, which is then an expected opposition to cooperative ideals, results in a high level of waste in the system. In some way, we always start over or delay handling matters. How many millions or hundreds of millions of people have been spent on work groups, committees, reports, and plans that are not done? How many reports are placed in drawers every week? How many members of the Parliament will we set out on issues that are at the same time being involved in the administration? Why don't we combine our powers? True, we share in various matters, but very often we are on some of the same lines. It is strength that we do not use as the standard is today. I feel that governments have decided that there is nothing to do with the government, that it is against everything, and that it wants the government to be free of charge. I'm saying, it's not like that. We want to do our part and assist you in all good things. And what good thing am I talking about? For example, I feel that it is a responsibility that governments do not work for an advanced, long - term, well - chosen, mental - health policy. Not giving good mental - health care is unacceptable to me. I don't understand why we don't use the services of psychologists better, a subsidence like that. that service and that we should not be able to ensure a good availability of children and adolescents into a mental - health service. This should be top priority, and that's at least two members of a group, each member of the Parliament, have proposed a mental health policy resolution, and it is likely that at the same time they will be working on such a matter in the Ministry. Would it be wise to unite your powers? Everyone agrees to strengthen the health care system. She should be the first stop and offer a variety of services. Then what is the coast? Where's the long-term policy? We offer our assistance, and I see in this hall an experience that a minister should take advantage of if he is serious about doing better. I could also name the prison cases. Where is the long - term policy of that class? Do we not all agree that correction is a better option than punishment or criminalism? So why don't we start working on it? I'm also thinking about what we seem to be having a really difficult time with the needed system changes. I can refer to the public pension system as an example. It has to be sustainable. There's gonna be paybacks and pay on the government's debt to the B Company. Achieving pension age and equal rights are needed between the public and the public market. This is not an easy task, and it is not necessarily desirable to be popular here and now, but it is an enormously urgent one. This will only happen with widespread solidarity. Another matter is patient payment, complex but very important solution. As with the pension fund, there has been a lot of work going on that we must complete with action, not another report ending in a drawer. The terms of collective agreements are also urgent. There, many look to the Norwegian model. It is our responsibility to make such an arrangement, and working together is not easy. The work of a panel on a bill for foreigners is a fine example of a minister seeking help, calling for cooperation between parties and stakeholders, and I have to commend members of the local government for their management. But I experience it after two years at a council that ministers find it difficult to get things going and it seems that they are caught up in developing long-term policies. Then I don't understand why the government doesn't use any means to make us responsible. We're here to help and help. Maybe this is about working together and cooperating just for some talk at the holidays that people don't mean at all. I have heard governments and the majority talk so that they can't trust the smaller parts. I don't give anything for that. To me, that's just a bad excuse. It's a decision to trust people. I encourage the government to make that decision. I can't see that any of us who have been piled up here at this council are something worse than others to make decisions and to enjoy trust, whether we may not just like other people go shopping and buy us alcohol if we go into it. Trust us. It might sound like I'm talking about the establishment and the legislature, but that's not what I'm talking about. All I think is that cooperation across groups, between council and executives, between more parts and smaller parts, is good. The responsibility is certainly government, but allow us to do our part. That's much better for success, I'm telling you. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-08-2.u13	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. It is my privilege to stand here in front of a body of Congress and be allowed to participate in the democracy that prevails in Iceland, especially on the 100th anniversary of the woman's vote. Today, we are sitting at a council of 44.4% women, the highest one in the history of Generalis. We of the piracy group will be able to work according to our core policy which is based on basic ideas about civil rights, democracy and transparency. We will begin this session with three priorities that all of us have in common to promote more transparency, power balance, and defend human rights, as well as that we will continue to speak for democratic reforms within and outside the General Assembly wall. First of all, we submit a Parliamentary arrangement for validation an Annex to the United Nations Convention Against torture. This additional contract requires the monitoring of the individual organisations that save people of freedom. These monitors, for example, are assigned to visit the country's prison regularly to make sure that all within them will receive human treatment and that no one will have to endure torture. The piranha have promoted improved concentration management of prisoners and further emphasis on reform in their prisons. What a joy it is, then, for us to see how well other members of the council have responded to these issues involving a vulnerable minority! We are convinced that the General will agree to validate this agreement so that the necessary supervision can begin soon. A respectable president. As the piranha and I give high priority to the promotion of the Agency's surveillance role with the executive authority. Two of our second priorities have special relevance to this role of the council. In a proposal for a resolution on independent surveillance of operations and police procedures, we suggest that the Council oversees police instead of Minister at the same time the highest police officer in the country. In an open democratic society, it is necessary to defend mutual trust between police and citizens. Police surveillance has been a significant factor in the community, including the U.S. magazines because of a number of issues that have come up in recent years. For example, there is hard luck with arrests, alleged violations of police databases, execution of wires, physical search, police equipment at meetings, and so on. It can be said that there was a significant awakening in the surveillance role of the Generals to the Commission. The change of viewpoint is seen, among other things, in recent reports, in particular, in a report by the World Committee on Causes and the conduct of the bank crash, as well as in reports that have led to the necessary response of the General Assembly to it. The third thing that we will put first in winter is the bill on the information and truth-friendly minister and is the matter of Congress I will recommend. The objective of this bill of our pirata is to better establish information ministers to the Council, both the Parliament and the Minister's Act. The bill on information and truth-bound ministers is not for no reason, but in addition this is part of a long - awaited resolution at the 2008 collapse. The truth of the minister's duty is to balance the authority of the council against the European Commission. The Council's right to obtain correct and prove information from a minister is essential and must be legally guaranteed. To oppose the truth is to lose war. The truth is not mere history, it is the basis of justice and the community in which we want to live. For example, I know that the longest continuous economic growth began in 1995 and did not end until 2007. According to the national economy programme submitted in 2003, the mean economic growth over 1995-2001 was 4%. After 2001, economic growth continued and has continued until 2007. Therefore, if I may allow, I give a question mark, a respectable president, to the government's truthual reviews, that it has led to the longest economic growth occurring in this century, much less in Iceland. The current economic growth has lasted about three years. V.E.G. Government's been sitting in two. The dream of a better Iceland is for many people to think about. Some people think that here is going to drop butter off every straw and that Iceland rose like a phantix from the ashes after the collapse in 2008. But we are not yet giants, and it is vital that we rise in the right direction, learn from past mistakes. The dream of a better Iceland is what I love about it. I'm here to help build a better country. Accounting after the collapse of the bank has not come true. The changes that contributed to real democracy, transparency, responsibility, justice, and open society have been put on ice. It is closer to mention our late New Constitution of Icelanders. The Report of the World Committee of Parliament explained what led to the collapse of the bank, and it is our responsibility to take the proposed indications there. It was not just the banks that collapsed, it was society itself. Just after a collapse, there was a rumor that no one could have predicted this. The WHO report on the collapse of the bank showed the opposite. A number of indications of the real status of the Icelandic bank were maintained, as was the case with an alcoholic's marriage. The national vessel was simply submerged by the dream of a group of people who believed they could make Iceland a bank paradise in five years. In every man's dream, his fall is hidden, so I now witness in Steinar's Steinn, by permission of the President. But the fall was not hidden from those who pointed it, it was hidden from those who knew it better. The dream of a better Iceland doesn't have to turn back into a nightmare. We have everything needed to establish better guidelines on political, media, and financial matters, thus building a better future, a viable future for future generations. I am willing to be the child who points out that Caesar is not wearing any clothes because truth is best, and there is so much we still have to learn. I'm not ready to give up on my dream. I'm not ready to give up on you, dear Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-08-2.u14	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. Everyone has heard of a country that is inexorable, economic, and political, and has two options to choose, on the one hand, to rely on the nation itself and the sovereignty to cope with the problem, on the other hand, to rely on the European Union or other foreign partners to solve the problem. These lines apply to Iceland immediately after the collapse of the economy, but they can also apply to Europe's southland, Greece. Both nations had a seven - year - old crisis, part of which was born but part of the international community. No one is saying that many things are not needed in this country, but the fact is that the Greeks are different from the Icelanders in a very deep crisis and are not at the end of it. Greece's national debt, except today, is about 200% of domestic product and has doubled since the so - called rescue action began, for Greece's rescues have been largely involved in the taking of the Greek State's vast debt of private members along with the taking of other nations on important elements of society. But Iceland, in the power of sovereignty, could put emergency laws on the banking system. History shows that the Icelanders are indebted to the individuals who were preparing and who fought for their legal advancement. Despite the emergency law, during the last term, the history of Iceland ended in a Greek tragedy. Under pressure from abroad, the people were repeatedly tried to take over private debts. It would be only a few hundred billion, including in the form of Icesave debt. The people rose, and the nation repeatedly rejected the property of private people. The president paid the nation's street to the case, and for that, he deserves it. At the same time that the Greeks still add to their debts, Icelanders under the lead of the reigns of Sigmundur, the son of Davíð, the son of Gunnlaugsson, and in the strength of their power, are taking the final blow from collapse. It's dealing with the swellings of fallen financial institutions through tax stability and stability that will bring up the government fund of large sums of money. Then they talk about right control. Our last spring was approved by the General Assembly for two prime bison. One assumes a fixed taxation of the swelling farm, while the other allows insistents for temporary time to provide reasonable ideas about contracts. Does anyone really believe that the European money bank approved of similar operations in Greece? In the power of the sovereignty, the final action of this case is to begin, and it is important to stand firm in Iceland's interests and defend the position of the public and the company. If certain demands have been proposed by the U.S. government and the Federal Committee for Economic and Business. This open process is important to ensure Iceland's interest and monitoring that the public's standard of living is sufficiently protected. Good citizens of the country. One of the best advantages for the Icelanders is that we are a people who solve their own problems, a nation that is not told what to do, a nation who wants and can rule themselves. Therefore, the general public normally calls for a more direct democracy. We need to act. In recent years, however, we have demonstrated that the sovereignty is just as important to the nation as it is to direct democracy. It's work time to review Iceland's Constitution. In that work, it is as important not to weaken national sovereignty as to directly increase democracy. It is also of concern that in the past politicians have overpowered the authority of the institutions and officials. No one is calling for politicians to redirect banks and to sit on credit committees, as was the custom in the years before. But could Iceland, this small, powerful society, have been building too much expensive and hovering system? I'm afraid so. I have been affected by conversations among foreign politicians that an increasing degree of doubt may be involved in the increased power of outsiders, institutions, officials, and more and more talk about the importance of strengthening the positions of those elected in a democratic way. We need, on the other hand, an even greater scale of looking at an equal standard of living conditions. The current government has completed an equation of electrical and house - to - house heating costs, which was a great deal of justice for many areas. It is a very important task and must be made fast and successful. Similar efforts in transport and education are being offered. One of the most important settlements is to promote education in the country. It doesn't care whether it's the University of Civil War, Skavegur, the Akureyri, the university campuses all over the country, or the multiway schools around the country. Building is not just a national project. It is practical to preserve the entire country. We cannot look at the decline of the last few decades without action. This needs to be one of the priorities of the latter part of the terms. We need to prepare well for the exports of the nation, the tourism, the knowledge industry, the fishing roads, and the many sectors that thrive. Iceland has to do business with as many countries as possible. For example, there is good reason to be concerned about the commercial situation that Iceland is taking for sale of marine products after the completion of markets in Eastern Europe and the impact it has on the Icelandic economy and its unique settlements. Good citizens of the country. Just as the government of Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunougsson is moving the Icelandic economy, we are under obligation to consider another important matter. There are great wars in Syria and, in fact, others. Icelanders must not sit by when it comes to these matters. We are under obligation to contribute, both in the form of financial contributions, to the reception of refugees and other assistance. This is not the only place to think about material gains.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-08-2.u15	V.E.G. President. Good Icelanders. Now that seven years have passed since the collapse of the Icelandic financial system, government funds are gaining their original strength, and the term period is half past, what is the government's plan for restoration of rights and services that were necessary to compromise the response to the collapse? So tonight, I'd like to make three topics a subject; insurance, housing, and maternity. This government was founded primarily on two projects, the correcting of prices back in time, and the breaking of insurance on new loans. It was the core of the campaign of the forward party. It may be said that the correction caused some disappointment in the population, especially for young people who now find it harder to cover their heads because of the rise in house prices that followed the correction. Also, the government has not been to interview for correction of student loans, although the requirements of student loans are as great as the mortgage. The head of the advance party, the highest. Prime Minister, thought that it was a simple matter to eliminate election insurance, but not much has been done since the election. In February I asked for a special discussion at the highest. The President on bail, but for less than five months until his appointment, he could not see how to deal with it. In view of the failure of the government in these matters, there is no wonder! Prime Minister did not want to discuss his second most important campaign promise. So I have submitted the request for a special discussion about reimbursement. Now we'll see what's out there. The nine - part period is now more than halfway over the course of the year, and it has not yet been taken to assist young people to reach the housing market or to reduce the cost of tenants. Today, the house - to - house problem of young people is larger than at the beginning of the season. It has taken the government in the third year to bring up some card for housing. Pronunciations and prime minister's policy are high, but they do not fuck with financial information. Next year, legislation should be provided in 400 apartments. Yeah, you heard the right thing, only 400 apartments in the social system. Thus, the government does not match the enormous housing problems of young people, either by building a public tenement or by making provision for housing easy. The government, on the other hand, reduces interest rates of 1.5 billion. The rent payments that have dropped in the past by this government are now increasing by 700 million. The financial bill says 1,100 million, but I remind you that by this year 400 of them had already been promised. They were to be counter-important because of increase in food tax but have not yet returned to renters. 80 up. Millions used the government to reduce the debt of those who have homes, while tenants receive 700. So we in the United States will again submit our suggestions for building a general tenement and opportunities for young people to buy housing. If obstetric pay had developed to match the pay since collapse, the maximum pay per month would be 845. K. After a difficult cuts, the last government had started to raise the birthworm again and legalized its length from nine months to twelve months. Prolonging is important to bridge the gap between birthworm and preschool. The present government, however, canceled the prolongation and, apart from 20 of you, has raised no more maternity payments. K. in 2014. This year's pay will not be raised, so the maximum pay will continue to be 370. K. People who take holidayes full at the time of the baby's birth for a longer time than fathers who take Orlof less than a year. We in the United States will put in the next few days a bill on the prolongation of the birthworm for twelve months, an increase in the peak rent to 500 yous. K. and plans for further expansion in the years to come, because we peers want young people to envision a future in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-08-2.u16	V.E.G. President. My fellow Americans. Most of the nation were victorious by the Icelandic male soccer team over the weekend, but few may have been the highest. A secretary of finance who was already in the media to prepare it for the construction of a huge football field of 15 to 20 billion dollars. This palace, according to the Minister, could not cost the taxpayers anything, as if it were a Halfland tunnel, could be built with the magic formula abolition of a financing. But property - related funding will be what was called the government's monographer, to be in business, in the prehistoric period of government, to which the term came in disrepute. Of course, we would be able to pay for such a project if it happened in the same way that we still pay for it every time we drive under the Hagland. The personal delinquency has the only real purpose of making money available to middle forces. Atmospheric castles at the highest. The minister of finance was very much in harmony with a policy debate at the highest level. Prime Minister. He will be talking about the best budget of all time, the greatest contribution to the welfare of all time, and the wealth, balance, and happiness of all. On the other hand, plans for economic management are ignored by the weakness of plans and the amount of opportunity to get out of control. That's what's left of the highest. At the same time, prime minister sends out the labor movement with little covert threats of changes in collective agreements. It is not just when it comes to soccer fields that the management groups have a clinching theory about the quality of their own prowess. You see, there is real reason to fear that the government intends to go further into the paths of private failures and to act on welfare with the associated starving policy against the public system. This will only lead to an increase in discrimination and greater cost to society and individuals. Studies confirm that the major majority of Icelanders want a powerful health and welfare system that is run by society and financed by taxes. In the left movement, a green supply highlights the sense of responsibility and balance when it comes to the organization of this group - not marketism. A respectable president. In his talk earlier, the highest. The prime minister that Iceland is so far away from the world's battlefields. But nothing is far from true. In recent years, Iceland has been an active part of the most successful wars and involvements of Western nations in the Middle East, sometimes as a member of the NATO nation, sometimes as a follower of the United States government. Most of the people who are now driven to Europe are on the run from wars established either by or by NATO countries. All can be sure that the war in Syria is the product of the invasion of Iraq in 2003. For the wars in Afghanistan and Libya, there is no need for variety. Even now, in the face of the consequences, the military powers will have the only solution to the fire. Last summer, the NATO States met together to support the Turks in walking between the bull and the head of the Kurdum, thus mixing the war further. The inevitable consequences of that decision will be even more devastating, even more violent, and more prosperous. My fellow Americans. V.E.G. The prime minister has said that the roots of the refugee stream need to be considered. That's where I agree with him. At the same time that we open our arms to refugees, let us also attack the root. Let us stop promoting war in distant lands and then be amazed at the horrors it brings. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-08-2.u17	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. Here at the General Assembly, representatives of various political viewpoints are present. For the sake of simplicity, you may be directed to the right and to the left, and all of that in between, to government, and to opposition. Reports from this hall are more often than not from a conflict between government and government, and thus expressed - a conflict between government and government opposition. Remember, though, that behind this simple statement there is a real difference of opinion, which, in my opinion, does not allow enough space in the Senate's limelight. In the debate over the activities of the council, both in this hall as well as outside the council, there are quite a number of disparagingly comments about the so - called conflicts that take place in a council hall. They never get together about one thing or anything, so they like to hear. But then they forget the role of an elected agent. Hv. Senators are not elected to be a member of this hall to achieve a solidarity over anything. They are not ideal to compromise their core opinions because they did not know how to break any predefined solidarity. They are not ideals to bring down nightmares to other people's pettings, which they are very opposed to just because they have some special celebrations in town. And the general members of the council are not to make this a special goal by means of their seat here to create a comfortable program for the council. Because of their views, at least some people are elected to share in the legislature work. because of the ideals they have manifested. To them, men have to fight. Another idea that is justified is that it is not discussed with a sense of urgency. Most ideas get better when they're handled. The law of law in the land is natural to deal with what it is like. A key to such conflict is the general assembly. In fact, there's no better place. At the General Assembly, it is possible to deal with opinions, e.g. whether or not to use the limited tax on the public in this or the other, whether it is desirable for the state to run a business but to forbid others, whether nature should enjoy the doubt or man, for example, the cases before this council and at all times this loss. However, the challenge as the people witnessed at the end of the last assembly is not related to the perennial conflicts like this. No one was hiding that it was merely avoiding votes about the others and these matters because they saw beforehand that their viewpoint would be in votes. I must not conclude that I do not believe that a filibuster can be an understandable operation for a time, but it must not be overuseed, and it should not be given up for those who employ a filibuster. But is it so terrible to agree with your vote at the council? In my opinion, the horrors of that are somewhat overrated, but the benefits of the councilman's case are underestimated. As the president of Iceland noted, this morning in an interesting discourse on the Constitution, there is trouble. Senators and officials, but the council has its place. During this assembly, I hope that there will be a debate of ideals, e.g. Whether or not the State will continue to sell alcohol in bottles with a stopper, across the borders of Iceland, whether or not they should be free or kept bound, e.g. to determine whether or not a person should have the right to examine human financial issues, environmental issues, e.g. Whether the Council should automatically and without discussion introduce EU rules, stamped in councils, or environmental issues that have no business with Icelandic nature. I also expect those who don't want to cancel the tolls on pants and furniture to make it clear and that those who want to activate here all the prostitutes will make that impression. However, such cases and others that the Council is being discussed in the winter must be finished with a vote, a book made by members of Congress. A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. It is not the conflict at the Council that the people must fear. Rather, it is the flame that prevails if a solid agreement on an important matter is to be based on the discount of all their ideals.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-08-2.u18	A respectable president. My fellow Americans. I think it's safe to say that there are some very positive signs in the economy. There's been a turnaround. It's going up. But I'm also going to say that, because I just don't think it's fair to do it, that I have to thank Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir's government for having made incredibly difficult decisions in the most difficult situations in the years after a collapse. We are reaping the harvest now. Two hundred billion dollars had to be reached. Laying on the state funds after the crash, and we did it. So now there is no state fund. Money has no place. Important decisions were made that now have a key meaning in the use of old materials and the release of oceans. No matter what else we can say about the Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir government, she must be commended for this, because we are here tonight to see the result, the harvest. And we are making a big breakthrough. The turnaround has begun. That's a lot of greener times. It's in this very great opportunity. It's a crushing opportunity. I think there are two things we must take to guide us to play well with the possibilities we now face. That's a long-term thought. Even now, we Icelanders have to try to deal with the needs of good people, not somehow dropping ourselves in concrete. For future generations, we must think in the long run for our children. And we need a proper conversation in society, a proper conversation. We are at a critical time. We can really create a community of equal tools. We can improve the standard of living. We can improve the work of collective agreements through an active conversation. We can work on rebuilding the welfare system, health system, health care, improving human health, and the care of the elderly, the birthworm system. We can plan this whole thing together, we can plan it. Now we can really go into democracies with a change in the constitution. It's really an opportunity for it right now. We can settle difficult issues, can we not? with a good conversation about how we're going to split the money from the nation's energy resources and sea resources. We can find this harmony. We can really redesign the Icelandic job life, get it out of this state-sized environment in agriculture and industry. Superintendent, the state scholarship, she's dead. It's over. We can develop a variety of innovations and creative articles. Snuff, but not activated. We can do that. We can really find a place in the society of the nations. We can be examples in the environment. We can if we want to. We can be the only society that is not using fossil fuels at all. We can show the nations that it is possible to do so. This can be Iceland. Let us set this goal. Now it is time to decide to be a good nation among the nations when it comes to humanitarian acts, when it comes to helping people in war - torn territories, when it is time to meet refugees. Of course we can. And we should set these goals. Now is the turning point. Now there's a chance. There are obstacles, too. Let me give you four obstacles. The first is this: Icelanders have a terrible story in handling good things. It's harder to manage in Iceland's goods than in a crisis, I think. I'm waiting for the story that there is someone at some party in Iceland eating gold spaghetti, and we're going to see again the tremendous failure that has often marked the Icelandic economy and the rise of an Icelandic society. Your expectations need to be controlled. All of us have one thing to do. Number two. The discussion. She's out of balance in Iceland. It's kind of hard to talk, it's hard to say what you think. There's a lot screaming and screaming. We need more philosophy. We need more thought, and people need to be able to express their views without risking their penalties. That's what needs to be changed. Number three. Old power queen. It's exaggerating by a very old power queen at work and the ways of the government groups, as these are old classes. We see political employment in governments and positions. That's a return. I feel sometimes, considering the way the council has been during the two-year term, as if they don't want to settle. People throw in things that put everything in the attic. We have to stop this. It's sometimes like the old power queen, the majority, view the reconciliation as some kind of weakness. Fourth off. Special interests. They'll always exist, but there are public interests that will be determined on the whole of decision making. These are the governmental groups, the established ones, that they are to take to heart. There are all kinds of styles in Icelandic society that have too much influence. One example: It's taking care of everything except food. Except food. Crystal's clear example of the effects of special interests, all too much influence. Of course, special interests always want a public interest, but they want their interests first. They want to make money first, so common. That, my fellow Americans, is the story of Iceland. That's what needs to be changed. So I'm optimistic? Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on,
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-08-2.u19	A respectable president. Good Icelanders and Bad The general tendency to justify his power is strong by means of the democratic commission given to them in elections. Political movements put together a list, and then these lists are selected in general elections. That's the system we live in. That's how Congress works. But the fact that this is the system and that this is the way it is, and that it certainly is infinitely better than no democracy, there are major restrictions on simple Congresss, which I believe many people and particularly members of the council have trouble accepting. Perhaps it is because the Allied council is full of romantic feelings about the independence of the nation from the Dana king, so we automatically give ourselves, whatever we inherited at the time, that we must be on the one straight path. But pride tends to blind. The romantic nostali that surrounds the Senate makes it difficult for us to face the major failings of the arrangement, the arrangement that we are too busy demanding respect for and admiration. A good example of a bad problem is that while women have spent most of the time in the country, there are now about half of the time that women are a common sight at the General Assembly, and they have not yet achieved half of the members of Congress. If art elections resulted in a cross-section of the nation, about half of the members of Congress should have been women since they became eligible. Today, there should be at least three to six public members of the council and probably a similar number of non - Israelites. But it isn't. The reason for this inconsistencies is simple. The full - time democracy depends on the social, cultural, and technological boundaries that address the possibilities of various groups and, in particular, individuals to influence their community. Artistic elections simply do not automatically lead to national cross-sections and cannot give the council full and unlimited authority. A respectable president. I suggest this is a problem that we should respect. Another is that the representative democracy is highly simple to understand the interests and values of various groups. This morning, along with several other members of the council, I obeyed in an excellent way. A philosophy doctor, Nanna Hlín Halldórsdóttir, who, by permission of the President, said, Why do we choose representatives from territory rather than from something else? Would it not have been quite possible to develop, so different groups select representatives, that instead of having a South Court of Reykjavík, we would have women between 25 and 6.55 or people with incomes less than 2 million? Bad problem, but good question. A respectable president. Despite the lack of democracy, full - time democracy is excellent, but it can never take into account the wide variety of modern society. That is why we should not view the distribution of power to the people of the country as an automatic punishment of the General Assembly. Even if we had honest, intelligent, and well - informed members of the council, we should expect the nation to be at times at odds with the Allied people for a completely innocent reason and without some kind of adverse judgment. The credible democracy is simply not perfect. On the other hand, the General desires the respect of the public as it is. In fact, with these comments, I expect an General who is respected and trusted. Neither, however, is the case. A free individual cannot respect a ruler who himself does not respect the authority and even if so, it should be difficult. Many in this room feel that the honor of the Generalis is due to the fact that members of the council stand here using proper address words and dress properly. I'm standing here wearing the right clothes, using the right words and better. That's what most senators do, actually almost everyone, almost always do. Even so, the nation has no greater respect for us. Why not? Because respect is not tradition and formality but the way this most powerful institution in Iceland has the authority it has over the people of the country. Honesty to one's own role and failure is honorable, not the plan that this institution usually shows to the public, which individuals it is then to teach. In this context, I think it's appropriate to quote the highest. The ethics and my favorite, Jesús, the son of Jósefsson of Nazareth, said, by permission of a president: And all things whatsoever ye would that men should do unto you, ye also shall do unto them. Well spoken, Mr. Honorable President. If we desire respect from the common people, let us also show honor to him.
