ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u1	The president considers an agreement that may last longer than what the Senate puts out for a discussion of the 2nd and 3rd events to be concluded today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u2	We have an answer to: Industrial and commercial ministers, social and housing minister, marine and agricultural ministers, and foreign ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u3	Mr. President. We've recently been handed over to Iceland's Haguems Office, her figures on the result of 2014 have recently arrived. The population increased by some 3 thousand or approximately one thousand. We're crawling over 330s. ... themoney. Things didn't go so well in every country. Deepavog's population had a 10% reduction. The number of people in that town dropped almost 50, so it is likely that they moved from there between 50 and 60 people to those who have replaced them. There we see a black mark of the fact that Visar's modeling society has gone off the scene with 90% of all the sources of hunting built on the last few years. In fact, it left Húsavík and is leaving Thyatira, too, with the related effect on those places. There, on one board, away from the fishing grounds on south of Eastern Europe, the Brenudal Valleys, and the Deepavogs that have been built for decades. It is now being tried to build something in place of 400 tons of fishing clearance from a living institution, which, of course, is better than nothing, but it must be seen that it reduces the dose to 3◯4 levels. tons of fish won there during the past few years, with great activity. This is the sadder that has gone well in the Deep Coast of the past few years, where population growth and bright prospects remained until that blow. Now it's so great. Minister at 5 mg. Section 8. a law about the control of fishing to propose a synonym in this spring, that I know best about, among other things, arrangements in the settlements or side measures in the marine outback system. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister already sees what a disaster that is going to be like this built up, Deep Throat, in direct numbers, whether it is expected that the scope of a living agency to do better in these areas and to increase the amount of fishing clearances that humans have there will increase. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u4	A respectable president. Thank you. For example, a senator for bringing attention to this population development. What is certainly positive is that in the country, there have never lived more people than there is now. A leading leader within different parts of the country is slightly different. The development of southern Eastern Europe has been for a long time. It's certainly best not to walk well enough in the fishing lanes in smaller places, such as Bramperfjördur and Breundal Bay, and now the last Deepvóggis that had gone pretty well for a while, but not long since any difficult tragedy had gone on there, including As scopings left, significant changes were made in salutations. That's right. That's what came out, and that's right. Of course, forethought knows very well, that we have been strengthening the means of using a building agency and assigning a quota through it to reverse this trend, ensuring a measure of structure. Now we have been evaluating how this project has worked out. A preliminary report suggests that the benefits are quite good around the country, although they may not be comparable to vigorous fishing at one place at a certain point. Nevertheless, this is a very good way, and I think it's interesting to consider it in relation to the synopsis of how we're going to use the social, social, social, and professional sources that the state holds, whether this is not one of the best ways to go through, to go through the embargos and build them up for a longer time with the appearance of others. There are some indications, and at least I'm more than ready to look at them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u5	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I agree with the highest. Ministers that this method is promising, and it is in its nature that with a much higher structured fishing authority, which can guarantee the status to a considerable number of years, there is a very different basis for building something permanent. But the amount must also be sufficient to provide a reasonable basis for this operation. It's good hunting at the top. Minister is both minister of seafood and settlements, and I give the highest credit. A minister is eager to go further in these matters. I refer to it as the highest. In the spring of 2014, a minister himself told of a meeting with the people, or with the presidents of the Deepavogs, that if the sea route itself and seafood companies do not have enough community responsibility in the way they behave, governments must simply increase their space to counterweight measures. That's what we think we're looking at. We need a lot more fishing clearance in this kind of operation. [[The president calls.]] It is not possible to allow people to have the basis for this genuine failure to exist and to manifest itself very clearly in the Deepvag.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u6	A respectable president. It is true that it is very important that we use our industry to bring us into the country's habitation. The same can be said of agriculture, so to speak, government. Public and public work is a key factor in ensuring the structure around the country. It is not possible to place these burdens on individual jobs, such as fishing or agriculture, but to cooperate with them. But it can be expected of their professional profession that they will show community responsibility and share in it. The amount of resources we're supposed to use in this, we know they're not as national economicly practical in the bones of economic sizes, but there are, of course, more to calculate as much as local population development and property as people's right to live where it chooses. Then, of course, the State will also enter as well as other factors, such as building timber, such as the photoengineering of the whole of Iceland, which is of enormous importance. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u7	A respectable president. For the council, there is a framework for invigorating new investors. Legally, any enterprise with a specific size, as long as it is not located in the capital area, may apply to people who give a discount on taxes and pay up to 770 million. K. I'd like to draw special attention to small companies like sceptres and innovation companies who don't have much of an investment behind them, but they don't qualify for inquisitors. This small, often growing firm cannot be obtained in the eyes of the government to the will of the government, not according to this coming law at least. Because of this and many other factors, inferences always become an obstacle to the competitiveness of an enterprise. Some companies, but not others get a discount on taxes, some companies get a so-called training scholarship in their pocket from the state. All of this is up to companies hoping that when they get stopped, they will start paying their taxes and their expenses. Nothing has always been the case. We're familiar with the discussion of the international fishing companies, which have quite got ports and the largest attractions, but then all the growth goes to the mother company in foreign lands and we get little or no income tax. Then it's the newest deal on the Matrix. I'd like to ask the minister into him, without me having anything to do with that business checking the per se. There is a flourishing industry where the company has already built up on market grounds. I'll ask you why the Minister is infringinging the competition with the money? How can it be based on its policy, which speaks a great deal about the free market economy and the potential for competition, this intervention in the market and the situation in this way?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u8	A respectable president. By government policy, we want to promote competitiveness, we want to promote investment, and we want to use all the tools and tools we can use. We can have opinions about the heretics. Hv. A senator mentioned that the start line company is not an option for these legislations to apply for injury, but then I can inform them. A senator says that we have other actions specifically to encourage innovation, to give tax relief from research and development. We have a competitive fund, a technology fund, and we seek all ways to expand innovation. But back to the wills and the wills of the world. We can go back to 1966 when the first investment agreement was made at the Straumsvík. In 2007, I sat at a council and the content of my virgin talk at the council was celebrating that the Straumsvík plant wanted to get out of that 40 - year special contract because the tax system in Iceland had become more competitive and better at the time than the special agreement. That's where I want to go. That's where my squad wants to see the government's heading. But we're not there yet. Then we have two options, not to give in favor, and not to compete on equality with other countries and other countries, which are underneath, for example. Europe's State granting policies and agreements to various companies, or we can have such a system. That is what we have decided, to have the rules general and clear, exactly as was done during the last term, rather than to have the rules in the hands of some ministers or individuals, to give strength to those who are acceptable to them. I'll be at the Food Convention in a later answer. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u9	A respectable president. I appreciate the answers. V.E.G. A minister speaks of promoting an investment. I would have thought that the best way to do that and without being able to control it by hand and without having anything to do with it would be to open the country again. In this way a minister would not have to agree to be accused or accused of favoring his people. This would solve the problem. Since it was introduced, splicing companies are particularly excluded in this frame deal made by the minister. They were not excluded in the 2010 Law. [[Up front.]] They weren't. No, they weren't. [[Up front.]] They are because they do not have this investment behind them. It's the nature of wands and innovations if I have to inform the Minister of that. But I'd like to ask the Minister about the contract with the Matrix. [[The president calls.]] There is a possibility that in the programmes that came from the company they are giving the company a marketing position. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] How can this be justified in this context? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u10	A respectable president. We can open the land, can't we? Senator. That's just what we're doing, we're working on removing the oceans so they're told. You're wrong. In contrast with previous legislation, a senator says that sceptical companies are particularly excluded. These rules are based on the European Union's State Development System. They are based on exactly the same criteria as during the last terms. The company needs to meet certain types of agreements for investment and employment, but otherwise, companies in all sectors can apply on the basis of this general legislation, which I still want to reiterate to the treatment of the council, but we have won these contracts and including the Food Energy Convention on the basis of these general sources. The council is now handling the matter. If the council finds it necessary to limit the requirements and make changes, the council will have this in its own hands, but it must bear in mind that this has consequences and can result in our failure to compete for other projects that we are seeking to reach the country. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That must be kept in mind. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u11	A respectable president. I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of State on how he envisions Iceland and its future dealings with Europe. It is now time for this often - repeated letter to be the highest. The minister sent and was intended at some point to end the EU member discussion with regard to the desired impact. But every time the discussion comes up, it comes up. The secretary of state is going into this business, and we all need to consider the EEA contract and Iceland's position in Europe, taking into consideration it. We receive a bill from a bill we're told we need to introduce, as well as the government itself stresses that many of these bills can pass, which may be good and blessed. But I want to go to the highest. Minister after reply, the aspect of the discussion with the European Union is not responding, let us know that it is right by the highest level. Minister of Foreign Affairs, what is the future for the European Union? What are we gonna do in the EEA? Should we persevere in this indeed adjustment process? I'm referring to a legal adjustment process. These are laws that we need to put, which involves far more than any IPA strength or something like that. I'm just wondering how to get to the top. The minister of the foreign affairs sees this in the long run.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u12	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for this inquiry. I think it was clearly stated some time ago, especially when we published the European policy of the government that was adopted in the government, how we were going to maintain our relationship with the European Union and the European Union. We are, of course, part of Europe and continue to be part of it. I am very interested in strengthening the cooperation we have, both in the twofold with the European Union and in the individual European countries. I would have liked to be more prominent when it comes to institutions located in Europe, such as the Council of Europe, ESE, and so forth. The EEA Treaty is the contract that gives us access to the internal market, a contract that I believe is a great benefit to Iceland as it is today. He fulfills certain responsibilities and privileges, responsibilities that we must shoulder. There is also a degree of flexibility in the agreement, making it possible for the Council to intervene, for example, or something like that. However, we need to have an opportunity to advance information and other information about the deal in the early stages. We can, and we have the authority to do so. We, however, need both money and humanity so that all things will work out. Our relationship with Europe and the European Union will be based on the policies we have submitted and the EEA Convention, with all its benefits and weaknesses, our relationship with Europe will be in my opinion. I can't predict what will happen in the future like anyone else. But as it is today, I think this is the best thing we have in business, service, and other things about the alliance and into this market along with Norway and Liechtenstein.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u13	A respectable president. My problem is, I agree with the highest. Secretary of State on the fact that the EEA is the best thing we have in business with Europe. But what I don't quite understand is the highest. A minister thinks I'm alone that we're going to continue in the EEA, that I don't have a clear signal or a rich will to revise it, and then we need to know how we're going to behave for a long time. V.E.G. The minister of state cannot predict the future; I respect it, not the one standing here. But we need a long-term strategy because the EEA continues to implement local legislation and it is reduced in order to meet the agreement, so somewhere we need to revise matters from scratch. Are we going to revise the EEA contract or are we going to continue in this lead-in process, which is, or what? I feel like there's no long-term vision. I can't see she's there over her head.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u14	A respectable president. I don't agree with what. A senator says we don't have long - term vision. Of course, the vision is evident in the course that we have presented and in the words I have presented here and have discussed. The senator that the EEA deal is what we're going to live on for a while. I also said before, that the deal was not perfect, that there was a certain flaw in it. He is more than 20 years old, and it is normal to review how he has developed in these 20 years, discuss with the European Union, and our colleagues within the EEA community the changes that have occurred, and whether there are reasons to sit down and wonder certain things. I have personally criticized myself and said that I feel as if the political ideal and thought that were in the original contract had somehow disappeared. Perhaps it is a generation change that has occurred in the European Union, in management places, or in some form of such. However, if we want to use such expressions, we need to sit down and ask ourselves, " How can I better let this agreement rot? ' But it does exist, and there is no part of the program, at least in the direction of this Minister, which is here to leave the EEA. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u15	A respectable president. I come up here because there's a huge problem with a housing market in this country, and especially in a rented market, and also for those coming into the market now for the first time. High-level party. The minister promised all the beautiful things in these matters, both in a campaign battle and when he succeeded in this work less than two years ago. Since then, nothing has happened. They promised to cancel insurance. The changes in the housing system have been surmounted, but two years later there are no reports other than any committee and the findings of any committee. Let's just go over what the above mentioned were paying off. One of them concluded that at the beginning of 2015, first steps should be taken in decommissioning insurance. Now we are only at the beginning of 2015, and there is no news. A respectable president. There is no problem in the council other than that the legislation has been opened so that people are looking to resume and authorize successful loans. Less than a year ago, the General Assembly agreed to agree on the United States Congress's resolution of emergency operations regarding the tenet market and agreed to refer that Congress resolution to the government. It's been a year, and nothing's happened. So I ask again: What news is there about housing and decommissioning insurance? Because we and the people waiting for answers are not gonna get them. There's no news on these matters. In other words, this large promise has been made, there are large groups waiting for some action, and here have been adopted a council case submitted by the United States council, but it will not happen except that the matter appears to be falling asleep on some committees.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u16	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. As I have answered before in the platform, the Ministry's main projections are being worked hard. We have had considerable consultations with that work to ensure that the situation will come best organized into the council. We at the Ministry of Health have been concerned primarily with the matters under which the Minister is, it is harder to get to the legal adjustments involved in those that hear under other ministers. So I'd encourage them. A senator to ask questions about growth laws and insurance for the Minister under whom they are. We now have a bill that has a bearing on the repairs. We have a bill involved in building up social rented apartments and supporting construction of apartments in housing partners. We have significant changes in housing law so that it can grow and that we can learn from the experiences we have experienced in recent years following the collapse. And then we have some very important changes to our renters. They're big law columns. But as I've said before, I expect to bring them in here before the deadline we give to file a Senate case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u17	A respectable president. Don't point at me, it's the highest. Secretary says about the insurance policy. The matter was considerably simpler in the leading of an election when it was supposed to be possible to do this just after lunch, to eliminate insurance. The only thing that's happened since then that I hear is just under the top floor. The minister is that the Substitute Bank has stopped opening a loan of insurrection, offering an unscrupulous loan. That's what's happened. It's under the top. Minister. Well, then what's the greatest? A minister to tell about the removal of insurance that was promised so much in favor of elections as well as from this chair as at the end of the autumn Summit that it would be done in the near future? It says the highest. Minister: Don't look at me, look at something else, look at the highest. Secretary of finance. A respectable president. Of course, it's not acceptable for a minister who's got the title social and housing minister. [[The president calls.]] They're supposed to be able to answer to the government on matters involved in loans to the mortgage, a respectable president. [[The president calls.]] Of course, this is not acceptable, but it tells me that things are falling asleep. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u18	A respectable president. It has been repeated in the case of the government leaders that we are putting our homes in first place. The big project was the natural correction. We then promised that we would eliminate insurance on consumer loans. They're working on it. On the other hand, I refer to the fact that these legal classes simply do not hear beneath me. The entire government agrees to work on the proposals that came from a committee that was under the lead prime minister on the removal of insurance insurance from consumer loans. I went through the bills that hear directly under me, and I'm going to tell you, I heard the senator look pretty good at them, on the other hand, she did not mention that she had any comments to the bills. But I'm sure we'll have very good discussions on the subject when they enter the council, end up with a really big case, since we'll certainly see the interests of households in this country getting better when we've agreed to them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u19	A respectable president. In view of the recent judgment that occurred in the week that the state is not permitted to collect tender fees when customs companies are offered, I would like to have a place to speak at the highest level. Agricultural minister. This commission has been very controversial, critical, and at the highest level. After a customs report, a minister discussed this in February. Then a minister told him that from his point of view, it would be no problem to reevaluate the arrangement. However, he pointed out that the stakeholders could not have agreed on how to do this, and their messages were blurred. I thought this was a little bit like the Minister was dropping responsibility on the case. Now it's illegal. At the very least, it must not be the conclusion of the district, and it must not be a profit to the State. Don't I understand correctly that, according to law, either this way is gone, which is illegal, or is it to cast lots? That's the way I know the stakeholders have spoken for. Is it not clear now that lots will be cast, or should this case really be done for the Supreme Court? Would it be terrible if consumers might have remembered to enjoy it in a lower price because it was now being spoken of as being guided by the government's interests? I want to know what the highest view is. A minister looks at this judgment and whether it is really settled and does not need to refer to any conflict between interests.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u20	A respectable president. Thank you. The foreman for bringing this up. The matter is of great interest, especially because of the media talk about it. It is true that one third of the cases was discussed, and the State was acquitted in all of them, perhaps not what appears to have been discussed in the news. It is true, however, that this is true. A senator noted that in the court it is considered tax and that a minister in the law has too much power because there are two options. Regarding the amount that men have paid for this auctionovate, tollovita, it was about 300 million last year if I remember correctly and was similar to ten years ago, followed by a dramatic fall in 2008 and 2009, the collapse of the year, normal where the import has declined and has since gone on. It is true, then, that the market has chosen to consider the money to consumers who have paid these 300 million dollars. Yet, the 300 million have gone into the treasure of government, and as a result, they have brought good things to the public. It's not like they've disappeared from the economy, so that's what they're saying. Of course, they have been used for fine works, including the following: for the benefit of homes. I've said it before and will say it at any time that if there is uncertainty about the fact that the law is clear or possibly illegal, it would of course be reasonable to cross and examine it. The ways that have been taken in other countries are different, so here were these options, the minister had these two ways. Casting lots has been tested and proved to be bad, men went behind they can tie up some rules that can be done better. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But, of course, it's natural... to cross... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u21	A respectable president. I understand then so that the decision has not been made whether the judgment will be appealed. I guess we'll find out. I feel like I'm still at the highest. One way or another, a minister runs away when discussing the tollcans. Even if lots were ever tried to pass and lots were somehow passed by the system, they simply stop. There are ways to go. These tollovates can be replaced by parts of the market and then shared evenly. There are several ways I can do so, and I may want to get clear of this: Have interest stakeholders really been asked for some suggestions? Has a minister called for a meeting where everyone has sat down and said, "How can we do this? How can we share the limited quality of the customs so that everyone will be happy? I've worked for such interests, but I never remember that the minister or management has consulted them in this regard. [[The president calls.]] I want to get this straight.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u22	A respectable president. This has not been done in my time, but I have been informed that there have been tests before and that at that time there have been different statements about this. That's right. That's right. A leader, there are ways. When this is the case, although it is also true that the state was acquitted of all demands, the judgment interpreted it as being tax, and that a minister would have too much authority, as there were two ways in the law, the authority must, of course, go over it and look at it. And it's also true that the 300 million that have come in there have slipped into government funds, it's actually access to a limited resource, we can say, as it were, where a limited amount is offered. How is it to be handled in such an equal way as to take into account different markets, and how should we view those who vary in size in the market? Is that to be applied fully? There are many questions that need to be considered, and I agree with the inquirer that it needs to be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u23	A respectable president. I now follow up my second report to the General on Foreign and International Affairs since I took over the office of foreign ministers. Is it my hope that this report may be a cause for a good and meaningful discussion of Iceland and the world. The report is the result of all the Office of the Ministry and clearly explains the scope and scope of the work being done in the Ministry of State and how few of the important categories that the Ministry actually enters the General Assembly. It is therefore very welcome to be able to devote one day to the conference of material discussions on all international and security issues, commerce, development cooperation, national rights, foreign service, and business. Thus, this report will create a regular review of the Ministry's Communications to the General and the main focus of foreign and international affairs at one time. Iceland's foreign policy is in a constant shape, and in Iceland's language and interest care is fundamental to the values and standards established by Iceland and our interests. But the foundation is solid. In the United States, an independent and powerful Norwegian nation consists of a Western democracy and favors its scales with its neighbors, friends, and allies to promote peace, democracy, and prosperity. The more important point is that all the major issues of Iceland's foreign policy are settled. It has been that way during the last loss, almost regardless of which government is seated at a time, although individual decisions may be conflicting views. The Icelandic people know where their interests lie, and the people of Iceland know what they represent. A respectable president. First, I'd like to look at it next time. It is one of the highest duties of the State Department to provide protection and assistance to foreign governments, institutions, and individuals. Such activities, commonly spoken of as the State Ministry Civil Service, are a red thread in all the business of foreign service, both in Iceland and abroad. It is obvious that with the increased travel of Icelanders, the temporary expansion of foreign habitats due to study or work, and most not least by the increasingly intensive activities of Icelanders in foreign markets, this aspect of foreign activities has continued to grow in recent years. Thus, the Foreign Service and its representatives are often the first contact area of the Icelanders who need assistance and give attention to the State Department's role and firmness, even if there is not much news of a particular matter, the nature of the case. In recent years, we have emphasized the importance of improving this service, and for example, the shift has been made 24 hours a day as a result of international emergency and a database in which Icelanders who live abroad for longer or shorter periods of time can register. An emergency plan has then been prepared for a high-risk situation, and if the plan needs to be activated, the alert group of workers is available throughout the year. The main projects of the Civil Service include aid from illness, accident, or death of Iceland's foreign countries, version and extension of passports, criminal assistance and penalties, extracurricular pay, document reviews, aid for personal rights, such as custody or removal of children, assistance to identify missing persons abroad, and finally aid in the implementation of dead, sick, or roadside citizens. With some simplicity, it can be said that the foreign service is thus a means to care for many of the interests of social services in many parts of the world. We have a lot of trouble with the staff of our office in connection with civil service projects. Of course, this varies according to the number of Icelanders in the area, but for many of them, especially the embassies in the capitals of the northern countries, and in London, hundreds of them divide each month, even thousands. Since the beginning of the last year, the Ministry has gathered statistics on this aspect of the operation, showing that every month this subject is being addressed to the Department of Ministry in Reykjavík. A lot more talks come in with offices. The largest ratio in the embassies in Copenhagen, Oslo, and London is mentioned, as mentioned in London, above 600 cases in January. Overall, it is estimated that over 30 thousand a year of civil service, equivalent to 2,500 countries each month, these numbers are increasing. No record of civil service can be mentioned without referring to the role of Iceland's dictators. The World of America knows that Iceland's foreign service is one of the least in Europe. We have emissary offices in only 20 cities, of which most are in Europe and North America. Such a small foreign service would have little value if she did not enjoy the support of the world's jubilant network. Every day of the year, foreign service can rely on the 243 judges of Iceland, now active in 89 countries. They do these jobs for the country and the nation without paying for it, and in most cases foreign citizens from Iceland are offered and done amazing work in hand - to - hand witnessing to Iceland. The dictators are the extended arm of Iceland, and it is priceless to be able to rely on them when the need is urgent. So it was a special pleasure for the government to welcome these foreign agents of Iceland. A fall, thus showing its appreciation for Icelanders in action. The debate on safety in Europe has been in the process of renewing life. A serious situation in Eastern Europe proves that warlike ghosts of ancient times have been dissuaded. Incompetentness and frightening message from the terrorist forces ISIS bring horror to this country as elsewhere. Terrorism in our surroundings and among our friends people emphasizes that no state is safe, no matter how far it is from shore or country. It is the highest obligation of the government to secure the security of the cities, as previously noted. As a result, equipment needs to be available in case of a threat. Why is this mentioned? This is to highlight the importance of reaching out for national security policies in Iceland. Making a proposal for a resolution of national security policy is now in final stages based on the proposals of the Parliamentary Committee, as we know. I stress that with the development of national security policy, a process that was pushed by my predecessors, however. paritaprevir Acquirer Össur's Skarphéðinsson, a very important milestone will be established for the first time in a republican institution, where there will be a progressive step toward a national security policy. National security policy will rest on the strong support of Iceland's security and defenses have rested on nearly all of the republics, on the part of the Atlantic Community, and on the United States. Iceland's national security is thus integrated and completely unsettling international cooperation and, in this respect, should continue to care for the good cooperation of Iceland with its member states in the area of security and protection. These foundations will continue to be strengthened by active cooperation with the U.S. government and other neighboring countries, as well as the cooperation of the Northern countries in this region will continue to be developed under the guidance of national collective interests. A respectable president. Unpeace in Ukraine and the involvement of Russia in that country have led European authorities to realize that there is good reason to hold firmly to basic values of respect for international law and justice, democratic development, freedom of speech and human rights. These are the values and standards that Iceland's foreign policy is losing. The Icelandic government continues to stress the need for peaceful solutions but at the same time that there will be no compromise between the freedom of the people of Ukraine and the future of the country in a democratic way. As member countries, the main international institutions of peace and security in the continent, Iceland will contribute to international cooperation, which contributes to the peace and security of the entire European Union. Russia's illegal insurrection of the Crimea and their persistent support for apartheid in Ukraine has been wide open in contact with Russia. Indeed, the forced action of Western nations in support of Ukraine is desperate because the conduct of the Russian government is few, if any, example in dealing with countries in modern times. International laws and treaties have been violated, and borders have been changed by arms. This won't be over. For Iceland, it is a matter of respect for international law and not of memorizing countries. Europe's security environment is a concern for Iceland, and our neighbors take the threat seriously, including our friends in other countries and the Baltic States. Therefore, you need to be alert and to ensure appropriate ability to react if necessary. During the September Atlantic Union summit, important decisions were made, and they are not minor, reflecting the insistent will of the Community and are supported by the values and standards I have mentioned. In international relations, the chariot is pulled and pushed. In the same way as our confirmation in this case is formed at the Atlantic Community, the European Security and Cooperation Organization, ESE, has been an important area of action in Ukraine. In this way, ESE has played a key role in ensuring that communication between Member States will not be broken, and especially when conflict continues and there is a great difference. In this way, ASE has been one of the main places in Ukrainian government to describe its views, for other countries to reiterate their views, and most not least for Russia to answer for itself. It is important to make sure that communication will continue and that there will be no quarreling between individuals until a permanent solution. In recent years, there have been some discussions about the northern parts of this Assembly Hall, and I'm not unsatisfactory about the fact that I mention it here. North lands are our immediate vicinity, and as many have been identified, many potential hazards have been identified in the developing Arctic region on high occasions. It is clear that to cope with challenges in this part of the world, it is necessary to have an active international relations work on security, environmental and resource issues and business. As members of the Arctic Council, we are clearly part of the states that stood the way forward, push the chariot, and pull it together. We are so well - equipped that our guide is the Arctic policy that the Allied council set for itself some years ago. At that time, this government has put the Arctic Council on top further by setting up a special Prime Minister on matters of the north, which began the work in the past year, and the members of the minister of state, Minister of Ministers, Industrial and Business Ministers and Environment Ministers, as well as the prime minister responsible for its work. In accordance with the government's policy, recent years have been very active in Iceland's interests in the north. Looking at Iceland's interests in a collective way and attempting to detect both opportunities and scenarios. It should therefore be noted that this evaluation of interest is evident this week and is now open to stakeholders until the end of this month. A respectable president. Daily news of world conflicts is often at the hands of a man. There is still a long way to reach the goal of the United Nations covenant and to find solutions to many complex problems and present - day issues. It is hard to believe that hundreds of thousands were killed in Eastern wars and that millions of refugees live in dire need there. More than tears, terrorist groups are taking civilians hostage and murdering them as cruel as we have seen, including innocent children. It is unacceptable that in 2014 a part of the European Union was an illegal member of another country, that human rights are trampled on, and that millions of developing children die every year from poverty and diseases that can be cured. It is often claimed that the goals set out in the United Nations covenant are lofty and seemingly unrealistic. But we tend to forget that in the seven decades since the United Nations establishment, amazing progress has been made, but this year we celebrate that very milestone. In fact, in the historical context, there has been a greater peace - making development in recent decades, increasing numbers in the ranks of democracies, and great success in fighting poverty and hunger. In this respect, it is worth reminding us that during the present year, there will be a turning point in the United Nations. The new aims of sustainable development that will be adopted by the regional goals will be adopted at the UN Summit in September, and in December, a new international agreement on climate change will be implemented. A respectable president. Iceland wants to invest in peace for a long time and contribute to the improved standard of living among the poorest people in the world. The most important way to do this is to have an efficient development team that produces real values in specific areas where the donated state has something to offer. International Development Teams are a major source of Icelandic foreign policy and are endeavoring to ensure harmonization in terms of global, economic, environmental and security. Iceland's main objective is to support the efforts of the government in developing countries to eliminate poverty and hunger, promote economic and social development, provide international security and provide relief where needed. We focus on three main areas: the structure of social infrastructure, sustainable use of natural resources and work for the sake of peace, and we provide humanitarian assistance in times of need. Then we stress respect for the human rights and equality of the sexes, democracy and justice, as well as for the environmental and climate issues to play an important role. In this hall, Iceland's contributions to development have been under way and have been fully aware that the government has been forced to reroute the sails temporarily due to the general management of the government so that government funds can be restored to the better of the government. Surely I share my concern with those who have criticized the incision, but I want to make a decision that the government intends to handle matters as handsome as practically. The priorities have not changed in that way. In 2015, Iceland's contributions to development are estimated to continue 0.21% of the staked income based on budgets and current economic forecasts. A proposal for a resolution of a policy on Iceland's international development team that will be submitted in the near future will provide a practical guidelines for contributions to the seminary in the coming years. A respectable president. There is no void of democracy, peace, prosperity, and stability. The safety of humans and human society is established when a conversation takes place, and that conversation lays the foundation for confidence. And what better way of creating trust than business? A red thread in Iceland's foreign policy has always been raising prosperity by opening a market for Icelandic production, culture, and intelligence. It doesn't matter which political direction we approach that subject. The result is clear, Iceland has done well in its foreign interests, and I have previously stated from this chair that Iceland's foreign trade situation in foreign trade is, in many respects, envy. Our approach to our nuclear market, the European market, is ensured by the EEA agreement and has been promoted by the government to further interest measures in that field through its European policy, as we know. It is important that everyone hang up on one thing to ensure the agreement's implementation. It is important that there is an important interest in it, especially in employment, that it resides here in the same principle as its European competitors. This main theme is actually our policy on the implementation of this contract. Icelandic enterprises, as in the record, have a detailed trace, access to a large network of free trade agreements that cover a total of 69 countries through the EFTA Treaty, the EEA Convention, the 25 free shop contracts that the EFTA countries have made and the two-sided holiday contracts of Iceland by the Faeroe Islands, Greenland, and China. Likely, few countries have access to international markets as easily as Iceland enjoys these agreements. There, foreign service has accomplished a priceless work. A free trade is a global beach egg, and I want to return to our ideas on security in a wider context, surely Iceland has in the strength of its international interest care and the underlying standards and standards that Iceland has placed on the scales of building up relationships between people and nations by trade. At the same time, there are a number of variations in international and economic activities. In the near future, it will be explained whether an attempt to allow a new life in negotiation within the International Business Agency, WTO, is able to succeed, and lines become clearer in the extensive holiday business talks that the United States is participating in for some time. Trends within WTO and the development of these various vacation business events will have a significant impact on business negotiations over the next few years. It is very important for Icelandic interests that the World Trade Agency will continue to be a reliable, realistic site to negotiate the principles of international relations. At the same time, it is clear that many countries are willing to go further in negotiating for greater business freedom, but it is realistic to achieve a solidarity in the Agency. This development further emphasizes the importance of the continuation of the European Commission's network of free shops for further growth and access to Icelandic exports. Foreign Services will continue to monitor the development of the situation, promote Icelandic interests, and ensure that the Icelandic company has as much access to important markets as companies in major competitive countries. Those in this hall may have noticed that the underlying theme of this talk is a broad security case. I began my speech by suggesting that it was the highest duty of the government to defend its citizens, thus failing many responsibilities on the part of the State Minister and State Ministry. We also have abundant responsibilities toward the world around us. In fact, we lay down our own interests, values, and standards. Of them we stand guard every day, both at home and through our foreign representatives. A respectable president. I have a limited number of important matters that are international. I hope that the report presented could give rise to a good discussion here today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u24	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for report. I'd like to ask him about matters that he did not so much in his speech, but I'd like to introduce him to the secretary's report and to the environment, especially the affairs of the sea. It caught my attention where the section begins on resource and environment, which is actually short, about one page of climate change, then the issues of the ocean, and primarily on our use of fish stocks. I'd like to ask the highest. Foreign Minister: Is there any direction on the part of the Ministry or in the preparation for the protection of the sea, not merely the use of relevant institutions, but of climate change that will affect us as well as others, and will not be the least of the sea. Then I'm talking about acidification of the sea. I'm talking about the temperature of the ocean. I'm also talking about other pollutions that need to be examined, plastic pollution, bioactive, biodiversity decay, and, of course, I'd like to mention overfishing we've done over the years. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Is there a policy in the planning for marine protection? Isn't it true that us Icelanders are running such a policy not in preparation or not and speaking to it wherever we came, especially in connection with climate change, since this is a huge interest issue for us and for all the nations here using the Arctic fishing grounds?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u25	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry, but it's extremely important. I'm sure you can reason that we could have made more of these issues in the report, and I'm not going to belittle them. However, it is clear that the ocean's affairs are not just about the usefulness; they are also about protection. If we don't protect the ocean, the use will eventually be reduced, if we just connect it like that. This question and the ideas the senator has raised will come up with the Arctic policy that the government has been working on, where we stress opportunities and threats from global warming, ice melts, etc. We've had a conversation, me and the environmental minister, recently through the sea, whether we'd have to sit down and cover it carefully on a wide scale how we'd look at this most important resource of our Icelanders. I suppose when we meet again in the fall we'll have a policy, I don't know if I'm supposed to say it directly, or that at least we'll have some overtime to do about how we're going to look at the ocean's affairs in the near future. I'll admit it. A senator that this conversation with our Ministers has not been established but, in most of the policies, plans, and data we work on, is an emphasis on the ocean and not only from use but also from protection. Wherever we go to discuss environmental, northern, or other matters, we always stress this, too. We have always referred to the United Nations covenant when it comes to the sea, and I know that the sea has been one of the issues of the United Nations. I think... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u26	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I would have chosen that this work would be longer if I liked the fact that a conversation is in preparation, such as the highest level. Minister said so. I would have chosen to have started the conversation. I would have thought that, if I were in the government now, there would be a special Ministership on climate issues that were underlie the affairs of the sea. This is the largest interest in the Icelanders in the future as well as in the rest of the nations. We know climate change will have an impact. Of course, we should fight them as we can by all means that we can use to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. But we also need to understand the value of identifying the problem and the lack of funds. They don't have the funding for the alarm, they don't have enough funding for research and analysis, so I'm pretty sure. A minister is eager to speed up this work as possible so that we can see suggestions on these matters in the fall. Just another respectable president. V.E.G. A minister made up the subject of the new European policy of the government, as discussed in the report. It was also discussed at a fine meeting, a lunch, which I sat yesterday in Iceland's University on the EEA case. It described a measure of concern because there was a considerable lack of the capacity for the Icelanders to handle this contract that would be handled, primarily by human resources, and then I give a witness to human resources in the government. I'd like to ask the highest. Foreign Minister: What funds have been meant to follow the government's European policy? The report shows that a control team is working and working on a case, but what funds have been made for this? What will we see in the matter of knowing that the government has greatly cut down, especially in the Ministry of State? What's the highest money we've got. Minister of state to enforce the European policy and the interests of the Icelanders around the EEA Convention?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u27	A respectable president. As for the first matter, after the first question about the sea, I'm going to take it. A candidate of the word and stresss that we speed up the work we have already begun to do. Regarding the European Policy and the EEA Convention -- like what? A senator does not have any special budget for this interest management of the budget of this year. However, individual agencies have been trying to prioritize this situation, to put more human resources and focus on the EEA agreement. One Ministry Department - I think it was the Ministry of Internal Affairs, I recall it - was sending an employee to Brussels to carry out those assignments and then he's putting another employee in that bag. He'll come from the Ministry then, of course. Of course, I would like to see that more money would be put on the next budget. If we are going to take care of our spiritual need as closely as possible, it is full of need. I think the best way to do this is to increase the resources of the offices that are involved in this and to ensure that all the department services are out there with experts in Brussels to monitor more closely, in order to cooperate with Norway and Liechtenstein that we have today, but even better cooperation, because more people are watching this better. We can intervene in the early stages of a matter, but we need to make comments about our resources. In view of the way this has been done, we have simply had to accept that this matter has not been first in our lives. I hope it doesn't get there.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u28	Mr. President. V.E.G. Well, the minister of state is clearly 0 by yesterday, at least he has thrown off the street boy he went here at the end of his speech and the conversation yesterday when he put on a peculiar mode, but he has become foreign minister again, and I know so well because I think it's much better to talk to men who know how to be polite. Because I know how to do it myself, I'm going to thank the highest. Minister for the talk, which in many respects was excellent. And especially was she clearly moved. I also want to agree at the beginning of my words with the highest. Secretary of state, thanks to the choice of men we have through the jurists and jurists who earn unpaid for the Icelanders at any time. Then, too, I'm going to take the trouble off the top. Minister and thanking his own employees because he forgot, for the selfless work they also do for Iceland and Iceland abroad. I also thank them on behalf of us senators for always being invited and have already given us information and for paying us the journey through the wrong dark areas of some regulations that we regularly need to review and come from the large business of Brussels. Madam President. During this milestone, it is possible to compare with the events that have taken place here but to review them as the highest point. A minister naturally slipped by in his speech, and that is Iceland's position against the European Union. Of course, in this context you might also discuss the European policies at the highest level. The government's been recording. As noted in the contrast to the chairman of the left movement ◯ green supply earlier, it is not even followed in spite of all the statements made when this direction was announced by trumpet blasts and sang for several losses. At this milestone, Mr. President, nearly two years have passed since the Supreme Court. The government took over and the highest. Similarly, a minister of state has found peace from the council to put forth his policies and to shape them from the points he laid at the beginning of his career may not be confused either as to what he said would be the emphasis and how he has followed them. When the season's half over, you expect it to be the highest. A government, when it comes to such discussions, what it has done, and what tip it has proposed for the future. The field as high as the top. When a minister took office, he said that he would give high priority to four. First, cooperation west, Canada, and the United States, to take the EEA a lot more closely. Third, he was going to build north lands, and fourth, it was a vacation shop. That was one of the highest. Minister said he'd be the focus of his life. I was under this talk, had also read through the many pages of the report, and was waiting to hear new comments from the talk. None of these lawsuits heard anything new. After two years, it suddenly appeared that the emperor has no clothing. And what's even stated in this report is that the main issues such as EEA administration, such as the shape of northern development, have been taken from the Ministry and placed under the direction of a special prime minister. I'm not going to say that it's the government's assessment of the Minister's work, but two of the four sectors of the Ministry have been ripped out of the top four areas. A minister said that he was the most important cause of affairs, the ones he was going to emphasize. It's very important. Mr. President. When I'm at the highest. He gave a big report that in the past government, among other things, the good relationship between Iceland and the United States had been laid low. Naturally, it is important for us to maintain good cooperation with those close to us, especially since we have much less and remember that we have been in a special relationship with that state all the streets since it was the first state that acknowledged Iceland's independence. What do we see? V.E.G. A minister does not even get meetings with stewards in the United States. He won't even get a meeting with the highest. The U.S. Secretary of State in an effort to shape policies in our relationships. The statements made by Hillary Clinton, former minister of foreign affairs, regarding the United States's willingness to make a heading for the north, are not carried out. It's the highest it's ever seen. Ministers have been able to improve communication between the United States and Iceland as a five-minute meeting with Hagel Hagel, who is no longer among us, at least not as a minister, and they called the 'Counsel'-op. It's in this field that we're dealing with Iceland and our closest partner to 50 years of age is today. I remember that the former government was lying on its neck for having arranged matters so that we were being put on forced by whales. That's the top one. There was a big report from a minister that he was about to break it up. What has happened since then? Yes, the propeller has been tightened, and the last of these documents was published in the United States, where it is pointed out from the highest level. There has been no success in talking with the United States, where U.S. leaders are literally forbidden to communicate with us. This has been accomplished by the excellent challenge of improving communication with the United States. Consider northern routes, a group of lawsuits that in the time of the former government had begun. By the words of Professor Ingimundarson Igmundar's son, it was the beginning of a series of northern routes, and he said that in the past it had been just an editorial approach, it would have been mentioned, but the government had let it speak. I could list the many contracts made. I could list the many tasks made. However, we left one thing behind in what was being done, that we thought that there should be a discussion with other nations about building a safety center here in the north. That was not mentioned in the talk of the highest authority. Minister. Yet, it is the most important thing today to preserve our progress into the north. There was a lot of discussions and wants, but now that you meet these agents, for example, when they meet with a foreign committee, they just don't recognize the matter. And what's happening in this? Yeah, there's one man in the D.A., not at the top. Secretary of state, working on the case. The explanation, however, is that this category has been snatched away from the top. Minister? It is also a prime minister who handles it. I think with regard to these issues, such as those of the North, the boundaries of power have become so vague that there is nothing left to the highest degree. Minister of this suit. We can take the EEA. V.E.G. So a minister declared from that chair and even mentioned the sum that he was going to ensure that he would cultivate and enforce his contract. And it was, in the power of Congress, the highest. President, Einar K. Guðfinnsson of God, was accepted in his own time. That was the highest description. Minister over, this was supposed to be the top case. What happens next? Our greatest man at ESA is coming here, former Ministry Secretary, declaring that the EEA contract and its operation are in the water, he has no place at all. He put it on the radio yesterday: he doesn't belong at the highest. Minister. No, something's left him. And he says, "I need money. " In other words, the man who came here and praised the money is abducted. Even the EEA Convention as the highest. A minister rightly says that as regards our professional life today, the most important agreement that we have today is because of the high standard. Minister's not in position. It's just the way it is. That's what you have to say now that two years have passed. The fourth thing is a vacation store. The first government put much emphasis on improving and increasing the vacation network. That's the top one. The minister clearly said that there should be one of the most important things. In the past government, we worked very hard, both through EFTA and by double contracts, to improve this network. While I'm at the highest. True, a minister in the street boy's face yesterday questioned whether the former government had completed a free trade deal with China. I reminded them that maybe I was beginning to fall, so that my memory was starting to freak me out, but I had at least photographs because I was sitting with China's guardians and prime minister in Iceland and I signed up for the contract. A minister praised himself today, just like the highest. In this report, a minister boasts that he has set in motion a conversation with Mercosur about a vacation store. There may be some limit to how far a person can go to decorate himself with borrowed feathers. It began in 2001, then in my time, just so it lies here, but I'm not going to boast about it, as I would say in the Chinese vacation contract: It was Valgerður Sverrisdóttir who was taking the initiative to do so. Mr. President. So, what has happened to a vacation store in the history of this government? There are two important factors that the council has emphasized. Another is Japan. Japan is the fifth largest commercial power in which we cooperate. That's the top one. A minister takes care of our interests so that when the council asks, " How much customs do we pay against Japan's customs? ' Don't think he knows. That is the answer the Senate received. I can tell you what's going on. Ministers that when I left the Ministry, it was highly assessed so that Japan would not have to pay a toll of imports to Iceland unless we were paying at least 5% of all of our imports. And what will the council do about it? As it often does in the past, it shapes the policy when the government fails to do its work. There's been a conquistador proposal for a vacation store with Japan and what's the highest. Minister to do so? Yes, we got an assistant minister from Japan, Makino, to meet with five agents from the Foreign Affairs Committee. Each of us emphasized the importance of a vacation shop being picked up in Japan. This surprised him. He was coming directly from the Ministry of State, and that had not been mentioned to him. Well, he might've been wrong because I ran into a little story where the foreign minister of Iceland said it was an off-duty shop on Japan. Mr. Faithful. Greenland is one of the issues in which the council is concerned. They want more communication with Greenland. It is important for us to have a free store on Greenland. True, we have a contract since 1985, which is of utmost importance. The highest will is not missing. Minister to go to free trades with Greenland, but on what basis? Yes, it is now stated in the 2015 report that he wants to do so by expanding the Hoyvík deal, but it's been two years since Greenland made it perfectly clear, as if he could have read through police at the State Department, that they don't want to. And the highest. There's no need for a minister to accept my words. He only needs to observe the Allied Parliament, as the rest of us do. If the highest. For example, a minister of foreign affairs would have read papers that come from the Western Council, and he sees everything else. This was yesterday a narrative of the Western Institute of Theme Conference, which included a free trade at Greenland, which simply led to a simple conclusion that Greenland was opposed to entering the Hoyland Convention, they wanted a two - sided agreement that is just the same as I found out and left behind in this Ministry. V.E.G. Minister is operating for a long time. Mr. President. In short, I have considered the areas to the highest extent. A minister's intention was to make his point, and his report and speech reveal that nothing has happened there. It turns out that the prime minister values it in a way that he has taken custody of the north and the EEA. And in view of the way these works are, I well understand that the Western Council has decided to shape a policy leading to the north, as shown in its annual report. I understand that. If our members of the Western Council decide to the highest degree. Ministers don't do their jobs, I understand that. So I resented it. Konráðsdóttir Now that I understand what was behind it, I'm going to use this opportunity to apologize to her for my comments. She saw that there was nothing going on. Finally, one case remains that I ask the highest. Secretary of state. Yesterday, he said that it would be a disgrace if an foreign power like the European Union failed to accept it when he said that his letter to Brussels amounted to an agreement. Half an hour later, it was reported that the EU journalist was saying exactly this. Then I'll ask, "How's the big one?" Minister of Foreign Affairs responding? He's going to let Iceland lie like a rag that's not to be handled or to become the result of this strange expedition in the past week that even the EU press rep is not taking any notice. Secretary of state? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u29	President. I thank former secretary of state and current senator, Aessier Össur's Skarphéðinsson, for the best and sharp speech. I've been looking for this report from the current minister of state, a proper locality for the relations of Iceland and China. Now I know that the former minister is and was a big amateur on a two-way business deal with China. I was turned to the State Department's Web site asking questions and answering questions about the holiday contract and is asked to the troubled position of human rights in China. I would like to ask if the senator made the promise to use the opportunities we have with our visits to China to discuss human rights as well. I haven't seen it yet, and I haven't had any report on it. There is nothing about it in this report, and concern and criticism, such as ASI, regarding the free trade agreement, is said to have been quipped to use the opportunity to share the situation of government officials in China to discuss the terrible conditions of human rights throughout the vast country. Has this promise been fulfilled by the senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u30	Mr. President. Now I'm just in the role I like to play, I'm a foot soldiers. True, I'm stuck with what I'm doing. A member of the State Department of State and has the same opportunity to keep track of these things. I would think my older son, that it was not time for the meeting that should have been the first meeting of the Committee that we discussed and really argued about. I remember it was supposed to be within one year, and it's not been a year since the contract was validated at the General because it happened after elections like what happened. A senator remembers, probably at the summer council. My answer is, I haven't seen it. This does not mean, however, that there may not have been some form of conversation. Then I want to take this opportunity to tell her what may have happened before, that, for example, when that contract was prepared, and especially by means of, a strong criticism. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir, first of all, began a meeting with the Chinese prime minister two times, two different prime ministers. And second, before the contract became finalized by December 2012, the Ministry Department's Secretary of State was sent, and he and our ambassador had a long meeting there on Tibet. I have read the exchange of those meetings, and I must say, just as it is, I was quite proud of the way the Ministry of Ministry Einar Gunnarsson handled those matters at their meetings.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u31	I appreciate the answers. It is natural that these meetings took place in the past. I have noticed that the current minister of foreign affairs has gone to China, and there was no news of the discussion of human rights that took place at that meeting. Now it's the highest. A minister of education on his way to China, and we don't really know what he's going to do there, and there's no way to answer why he's going to his office there, and, of course, there's no consultation with the council any more than the previous day, we did. State Department. As a result, it is not possible to reach the highest level of messages. Minister. I remember a long time ago when the former minister, Björgvin G. Sigurðsson, went to China and caused considerable trouble. He took up the matter of Tibet's at that meeting, so he was not well received among his colleagues in China at that time. This was precisely because a botanist organization contacted the minister, and he did very well in that sense so that he asked his assistant to meet with the organization for information in order to go to an informed meeting. I have not seen any such consultation, either with grass root or with human rights organization that operates in the field of human rights. I don't know what it's been like in the past. A senator when he was at the State Department. Was there a type of work, because I have not seen it with the present government, in an effort to connect myself with a human rights organization that worked in different countries where we are in cooperation?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u32	The local businessman did more than just research at home, but, like, what did he do? One senator said that it was very much published, and with its words agggravated. When he returned home, he explained their discussion. I don't remember whether it was in the government or in an informal company of Ministers but also in their council. That's why I'm familiar. I imagine the highest. The minister of state has the same work as me and probably others before me in the state of foreign ministers, that all the groups here at home, a sub-versive organization that wants to take a house at the Minister's office get the time. That's the way it is. Senator. It's so altered the world, Mr. President, that as I look at the captain of the greatest political party in the state of government, I'm almost beginning to call it the most respected. Maybe it's a sign of the time. Hv. A senator asked if we had associated ourselves with a human rights organization. Yeah, but not in China. But we put ourselves in touch, i.e. The Ministry, with a human rights organization in probably two African states over a certain matter, maybe three, I'm not quite sure. In fact, we have strengthened human rights organizations in other countries, even though they may be at the very edge of what governments usually do.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u33	V.E.G. President. Hv. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson was a bit ambiguous in his speech, in fact, for me to think that in the material he tore up, it was not a matter of opinion or a difference of policy. I'm not going to do it in any other way, but he stepped aside to possible vacation agreements with Japan, which should have been discussed when representatives of the State Department have spoken with a Japanese representative. For that reason, I wanted to ask you why. A senator, because I know that he knows the story quite well: How has it been through the years to get the Japanese to discuss such matters? From my memory, this has been recorded in recent years and even decades, but the interest of Japan in making an adult vacation agreement has not been great. In the interviews or conversations I have had with the ambassadors of Japan and others, it has been observed that Japan is ready to sit down and discuss specific factors, individualities, or something like that, but that in that country there was limited interest in going to the full - costume agreement of the kind we've been doing with other countries, both through EFTA and alone. There seems to be a limited interest. I'm gonna ask the senator if he shares my opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u34	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir A Birgir Ármannsson farm must realize that I have a different role than his. Hv. A senator is a member of a board of directors, but according to standard government guidelines, so we use that word again, my job is to give it, or perhaps much more to the man sitting there. It's my job to remember how to do the best. The minister of foreign affairs intended to enforce his policy and to force him to do so. It doesn't have to mean that I disagree with my policy but that I may not feel that it is sufficiently carried out. You're absolutely right. For example, over the years a senator has been very unwilling to negotiate free trade agreements with Japan. Now it's different. Two years ago, when Shinzo Abe became prime minister, and he has been reimbursed, he put in his famous direction for the three arrows, and under his third arrow, it was simply an enormous effort to increase the shop. It said that today Japan had a vacation shop that would take over 17 or 18% of their vacation shops by foreign countries, and they wanted to increase it to 80%. What was especially suitable for us was their emphasis on doing so primarily to countries that had strong resources. On the other hand, the opposite is negative, meaning to the highest. A minister has to tap his foot, is the peculiar position I could in my speech that while making a toll for that, I'm counting 75% of all our exports, all the fish, e.g., probably pays Japan an import card of 2353%. That's what I tore up in my council hearing. It is thus not as urgent as we are in Japan, but they have also come to peace with us in security because of our presence in NATO, where we have the power to bear weights. Mr. President. More important, next year there is an anniversary in the political affairs of Iceland and Japan. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I have to say, if the best. The minister of state is unable to bring this world to justice, and I'm going to be indicted. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u35	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson for the answer. I think that if we release any exaggeration on these topics, we can agree that it's Iceland's interest to promote business and other relationships with Japan, as it is. A senator rightly pointed out that there was a very powerful economic kingdom. Even if Japan is removed from us, the possibilities for cooperation in other areas are also interesting. I also have to agree with that as well. The senator said, and referred them to a speech a little. A senator, the desirable thing is that we try to track down our commodities. Of course, much of that work is being done in the field of EFTA, and it is important that it be done well. But I think we're also supposed to do that on two-sided terms, as it has been, and China is the latest example. Of course, we are concerned about the position of human rights in China and the government there and the real aspects of China's foreign policy, but I still think it's best to improve the level of communication and to have a positive influence on most business dealings and dealings with that country. The same is true of other countries that seem far away from us, but we can have a strong chance of interacting with them. I think, and there perhaps in some way we can distinguish why. A senator should be expected to do so on two more terms and to use our own freedom of agreement in the area of free trade outside Europe. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u36	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a very clear and grammatical input. As long as we're outside the European Union, I don't disagree with the attitude. A senator has a two - sided contract. I think we have quite a chance to create an opportunity there. We have. I'm going to review one of the great treaties that began as a two - sided agreement originally, the contract with Canada with high hopes, but may not have proved to be the case. We're still waiting for the highest. A minister has changed that contract through EFTA because it is very important to us. How did he start? He began dealing with the II Parliaments and Canada State Department. Why? Because they were Western Icelanders at the time, actually from Canada's Habitat, but they were no worse for that. That was the start of it. Those who dragged their feet for a very long time were Norwegians, out of the Norwegian shipwork industry. It was us who ran this whole thing, members of the EFTA Committee. There is, of course, something else about Japan and us is the fact that we are little, and we need to play our maps well. There's tension and a growing view of the East China Sea, and that's where there's an area between superpowers. That's exactly what we know. China, for example, has a border dispute with every state at sea. The Japanese fins are for their own good. It's for our own good, and the way we want to set our cards forward toward the world, when we have made a free trade deal with China, it is the political importance that in itself is to do it as well with Japan.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u37	V.E.G. President. I see myself moved to say goodbye to the President's conference board to draw attention to this discussion about the foreign minister's report on foreign and international affairs has represented the largest anti-aggression party in the Foreign Affairs Committee spoken here and discussed the issues as the Supreme Issue. The minister didn't discuss, nor did he pass by, which is a great and urgent matter. So I notice what I find very special, and I don't know that I've been going through a long time. Ministers don't trust, don't want, or why, come here to answer groups that are speaking. Hv. A senator pointed out a number of points from the government's declaration of policy on the four points that he made to talk about and criticize here very much, and he raised questions but the highest. The minister of foreign affairs did not trust, which is a very special one, to resist. I don't recall during my last term having a problem. paritaprevir Össur the son of Skarphéðinsson, sitting as a minister of foreign affairs, has failed to respect the spokesmen of the classes, and has made a reply to the debatts that it offers to answer and discuss these matters. [[The president calls.]] I'm going to call this up, and I'm going to ask for it. Foreign Minister: What is the new course, or do they not trust in the discussion? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u38	V.E.G. A minister is in the hall observing the discussion, but he must appreciate the time when he would like to speak.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u39	A respectable president. I'm aware that the highest. Minister sits here in the hall. But I'll just make a comment to that, because in these suspense answers allowed and intended to expand the discussion and react, it's new that the Foreign Minister did not trust in the voice of the segregators who have been here to speak. V.E.G. A minister told us yesterday at the end of his talk at the end of his talk, urgent that a vacation deal with China was not made and accused of the Supreme Court. Former secretary of state, Össur Skarphéðinsson, for not following that issue. But he, as he did earlier, said that he himself had sat outside along with the then prime minister and signed the agreement. V.E.G. The minister of foreign affairs made a point of his speech and would become greater if he came up here and apologized for the mistakes that are not the only ones at the highest. A minister has done at this time, and the judiciousness and the folly that occurred there. I'll call attention to it again, most respected president, and ask for the highest. Foreign Minister: Why on earth does he not participate in the discussion?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u40	V.E.G. President. I will now speak after this special entry of each. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller for the discussion, since he seemed mainly to be getting an outlet for some archetype from yesterday, but I wanted in this discussion first of all to exaggerate some factors. I will not enter all aspects of foreign policy as described in a report by the Supreme Court. Minister. I will first agree with the factors that have burned us most in the scene of the Foreign Affairs Committee in the past two years since we took over after election and tore my views into that relationship. First, I wanted to say that the situation of international affairs in general has changed considerably during this time, much worse. Of course, this has called for quite a meeting in our area and has changed the focus of our dealings with other countries in the order of emphasis, priorities, and priorities. Thus, according to traditional political issues, we can say and change places of the material called for our attention, and I am primarily referring to the events that have taken place in Eastern Europe, especially Ukraine, where Russia's direction and support of direct and indirect support of the apartheid elements in Ukraine have brought great danger. Of course, there are terrible conflicts in Ukraine, but the effects are more widespread, and this has led to the suffering of our relations with Western countries with Russia. V.E.G. In his speech and in the report how the Icelandic government has handled them, the most important thing is that Iceland has taken a clear position among its allies in the Atlantic Community and other countries that we interact with in the Western world in Russia's expansion policy in Ukraine. That line has been extremely clear, and there has been no doubt about it. There's been no doubt where Iceland has taken its place. This is important because of this, as it were, the highest. The Minister of Foreign Affairs, explained that we have much to do with the commitments we have made and other nations have accepted the marks of the Atlantic Community, while also keeping the rules and treaties in the realms of international affairs. For one thing, this is due to the incorporation of Monsterga, Russia, where the first position was for a very long time that Europe's border was changed under gun control. It is important that we take a clear stand against such measures, and in the same way, we must add our weights to the scales so that a peaceful solution can be gained in the affairs of the East Ukraine so that there can be respect for national and national powers. This was what I wanted to emphasize at the beginning of the discussion. These issues have come to us in various ways, including Like a minister, in our dealings with our closest neighbors in the Northlands and friends of the Baltic, some have experienced their situation in a similar way to what happens in Ukraine. However, there is a fundamental difference between these countries and the European Union, and in the state of the Atlantic Community, they have greater protection, since we must view it as totally indiscriminate to 5. The North Atlantic Convention, which includes an attack on one member of the Member States as an attack on them all includes a great protection against the Baltics. NATO has taken the steps and governments in this country support the efforts to increase the use of equipment in these areas, increase in air space monitoring, and more frequent installing special companies that can respond by short notice, etc. Similarly, the states of the Atlantic alliance have clearly underlined, including the Holy Scriptures, in a clear way. At the Wales summit last fall, to 5th par. Keep to it. Of course, people have talked about and are concerned that new methods or unconventional measures in warfare can unexplain the boundaries in these areas when there is not an invasion on the part of formal armies but possibly support the separation forces, arms shipments, even transmissions of so - called volunteers across borders and so on. This can help to make the limit less clear. But it is important that the Atlantic Community take a firm position with its potentially threatened member states and underscores the need for help. That's extremely important. Another factor related to this is the rise in Russia's activities outside its borders, increasing activity in the North seas, and the kind of things we must pay much attention to. These include more frequent travel of Russian military planes, submarines, and other weapons of war outside of traditional areas. It is clear that the Russians have recently lost a stronger foreign policy than they have been for a long time, and without me predicting fire and sulfur, we have to be on guard, we need to strengthen our defenses in the vicinity of the environment, and we need to consider how the defence agreement is being carried out, how our involvement in NATA is conducted, and we need to consider the new circumstances in this regard. Another thing I'm about to kill is that conditions before the Mediterranean and, actually, in North Africa too, have to worry about security. The rise of a highly militant and barbaric terrorist organization is frightening, as can be said of actions performed by a terrorist organization or by men associated with or at least those who join them in our closest neighboring lands. This causes anxiety and makes it necessary for us to consider our own defenses in this regard. It is then more civil defenses that in some respects fall under the domestic issue rather than foreign issues, but it is necessary to mention in this relationship. The main importance of our cooperation with neighboring and alliances in dealing with such measures is the foreign policy. I also mention the refugee problem created by war, civil wars and terrorism in Middle Eastern and North Africa. The problem of refugees is greater than we have seen in the past, and unfortunately, there is reason to believe that it will only increase in the near future. It is clear that the international community's response to the refugee problem has been inadequate, and we need to do our part in these matters, and we need to give our voice at the scene of the international community to support the more effective approach to the problem because the nearest neighboring countries of the war have no amount of resources to meet the great number of refugees today. This is what I wanted to say about the international political issue, and I'm free of charge. And for the sake of this time, I also have to briefly review another point that has been under constant attention to us at the Foreign Affairs Committee since we arrived on the Committee less than two years ago and that is an EEA case. Of course, I celebrate the policy adopted by the government last year on the increase and effectiveness of our participation in the EEA community. We've been working at the State Department's Environment Committee to further support the European Parliament's strategy, but what we see in the way it is that in order for us to apply the benefits of the EEA, we both in the council and in the administrative system, we need to be more alert to matters that are in preparation and renovating and developing even more effective ways in early stages, especially when discussing matters that are of great interest to us. I'm of the opinion like the rest of the people here who have spoken that the EEA deal is very important to us. Of course, in our jobs, we sometimes stumble at the arrangement where the EEA operates. It's a long way from a perfect deal, but I've appreciated it so that the interests of being members of the EEA are greater than the costs, outweigh the costs. However, we need to take a steady look at these factors and evaluate them, and that's why I'm excited to have a report or report from the State Department that is now being developed on the pros and cons of the EEA community. I think it will provide a sound basis for us to discuss at the council how we benefit from our cooperation, what our faults are, and how we can reflect on how we approach these matters differently. Of course, we're not supposed to focus on the EEA agreement alone as the only solution to our foreign business, far from here. We need to consider the possibility of a vacation store, and we need to take into account how we can use our position outside the European Union in the most reasonable way for our Icelandic job life and country's gain. The assessment of the benefits and weaknesses of the EEA Convention must be an important input or start of such a discussion. V.E.G. President. I want to finally agree with the words that have failed in this discussion that it is very important that we do everything within our power to strengthen our relationship with the United States, which, of course, changed considerably following the decision that the defense team will disappear from here on out of 2006. It matters with our security concerns, but it also matters immensely by our economic perspective and that both factors must be mindful and work on, both foreign ministers, the council, and the whole system of government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u41	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Birgir's Ármannsson for his speech in which he made many important points to discuss the report of the foreign minister on foreign and international matters. I'd like to start by saying things with what's happened. A senator that I am deeply concerned with the activities of Russia in Ukraine, with incorporation into the Crimea, thinking that they were not for the benefit of world peace and what they were for the people of Ukraine. At the same time, recent developments have also been the fact that NATO has been moving her territory to the east. In my opinion, the expansion policy of NATO to the east has been the least to reduce the will or ability of these two superpowers to keep peace in this area. Rather, both NATO and one Russian are to show their claws and what they are capable of. I think that has very scary results for world peace. That's why I'd like to ask. A member of Parliament: How does he feel that we even try to resolve differences with something other than an arms force that will increase the force each side of the war? How does it feel? A senator trying other ways, rather than sending in trained soldiers, to send in, for example, diplomats to negotiate peace?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u42	V.E.G. President. All the efforts of Western countries to Russians in connection with the events in Ukraine have begun to be sent to discuss these matters by negotiaters in a suit. There is no doubt that such solutions are, of course, far more successful, and as a result, since the end of World War II, they have been even more peaceful in Europe than in any other period of human history. At times, though, it is simply such that peace must depend on weapons, and there it helps us to discern why. A senator, perhaps. However, regarding the expected expansion of NATO to the east, it should be noted that NATO has taken in new member countries of Central and Eastern Europe, who have insisted on getting in there very strongly. There are countries, whether in the Baltic, Poland, Romania, or other countries that are there on the edge, who have insisted strongly on getting in and in many cases have been very impatient with being accepted into NATO. It has not been that NATO put his cold jar upon these lands and pulled them away. Rather, it has simply been so that they have considered their own safety interests to be the best source of protection in the Alliance of NATO. Today, countries are in the position to request entrance into NATO because they feel threatened. I give Georgia an example that a few years ago suffered when Russian tanks crossed parts of the country, and border fences were built where my territory used to be, can say. [[The president calls.]] So NATO has not been seeking new Member States in an active way but has taken it... who have requested to enter on the basis of democratic elections. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u43	V.E.G. President. We're right. We're right. A senator decides whether peace can be guaranteed by arms. I'd like to repeat what I said before that I'm in no way measuring the Russian conduct a bit better, but I don't think that's possible. But I'd like to keep it up, because there's a big developer over there that's NATO. I think it is very important that we Icelanders, who are, in fact, member countries of NATO but still an armyless nation, always keep our emphasis on speaking for peace and peaceful solutions while we are in NATO. Of course, I thought it best that we told ourselves from NATO and used ourselves for peaceful solutions just by ourselves, but there may be a debate that doesn't belong here right now. But there was another very important matter. A senator entered his talk, which is the refugee problem. I'm what? A senator wholeheartedly agreed that there is a problem that will grow and affect the entire population of the earth. We've done well with the National Guard in saving refugees from an acute death in the Mediterranean Sea, and it's great, of course. But I'd like to know what a sight it is. The senator is on the following: Wouldn't we have to take a large percentage of these refugees to us and provide them with a long-term shelter here, but not just save them from acute death in the ocean?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u44	V.E.G. President. First, NATO, Ukraine, Russia, and the like. It is of interest to us in this discussion to consider how our neighbors, who serve on the basis of a declared neutral stand, deal with this. The results of the events that have taken place in Ukraine and elsewhere in this area have made it possible for both Sweden and Finns, from ancient times to neutral kingdoms, to have their own defenses, to have actually promoted their military forces and the equipment of their military forces. They have increased cooperation with NATO, and third, in both of these countries, there has been an increasing debate that these nations become members of NATO. I believe that for both of them, such steps would be very emotional and even difficult because of established neutrality. On the other hand, these events in real life have led to their taking much advantage of NATO in all its equipment and preparation. About the refugee problem. Yes, we can do more. I think the number of refugees we receive is primarily a symbolic procedure. I will not rule out man's doing so, but this would primarily be a symbolic operation because there are millions of refugees from Syria and other areas. It's clear that taking more refugees into the little Iceland would turn into the solution to the problem. I think it was most important to help with refugees in the area, and there we can certainly do more. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u45	Mr. President. In view of the small number left in these fliers, fire - hot supporters of cultivating their relationship with the United States, I must say that despite the final words in speech. Then a senator surprised me a little about how little emphasis was on that subject in his speech. But that may be a sign of the times. There's two things I'd like to talk to you about. A senator. We agree that, at present, it is very important to put emphasis on developing and applying the EEA contract. However, in view of the way the former Ministry Secretary and High Commissioner at ESAs has spoken about the operation of the agreement, in view of the supreme situation. The minister of state informed the chairman of the left movement of a green proposal that there is no money meant, beyond what is now, to improve it and, in view of recommendations. A senator, about the need to get into Brussels sooner, I ask him first: Is it not advisable for us to use us more effectively to try to secure Iceland's interests if the government is not doing so? Second, why don't we meet Sverrir Haukur, Gunnler's Gunnlaugsson? He's here in the country to discuss these matters with us. Third, it is not necessary for the Commission to make an independent assessment of how the execution was carried out and what is lacking there? It's clear to me. A senator seemed to agree with Sverrir Haukur Gunnlaugsson that the minister was money free, and he himself admits that he does not have the strength to get the money needed to succeed in these great interests. I keep the second question until my second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u46	V.E.G. President. First regarding the United States, I felt that I would give it the most important consideration by ending my talk on it, making it my final statement that we had to improve our cooperation with the United States in this regard. I don't think there's any disagreement between us. A senator, so there is no reason to waste more time on it. As for the EEA deal, we are faced with two points of interest. On the one hand, what is called an induction palace, depending on how you view things. This is reflected, among other things, in EFTA observations and lawsuits for the EFTA Court. It is that we have not to the extent that we have not met our contract commitments, not because we are opposed, but simply because the time we have taken to introduce them is too long. We haven't followed the deadlines in that relationship. Like what? A senator knows that we have made any effort on the Foreign Affairs Committee to shorten the tails we face, but in many cases, what we should say, the lack of human resources, and possible priorities in the individual councils where cases have not reached a sufficient speed of progress, both in terms of the Regulation agreement and in the billing process. There are reasons for this. It's one of the things, and it's practical, and it's a relatively simple one to take, I suppose. The rest is more important, as a matter of fact. A senator also mentioned, that we need to put more power into it on our part, and after incidents of more money and human resources, to follow more closely the progress of the past and to make use of the potential for influence in that relationship. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u47	Mr. President. We on a foreign committee are the executives of the public interests to the point that we are required to use the European Commission. I won't tell you what to do. A member of that field, he has taken into account our committee and the Allied Council, the EEA's affairs, in fact, sometimes too strongly, that you think. But that may not have been what I meant. I'm not losing my sleep over the entrance Hall, he's got some explanations. I was especially thinking about it as a boy. A senator mentioned in his talk, about getting to work earlier, for that is in most cases, but not in all cases, where we may have been able to prevent some kind of scruple that might be expensive to us, and these examples show that they have proved to be expensive to us. V.E.G. The minister of foreign affairs was about to give an honest account of the situation. He thought that it might be another man who took steps to see the embassy. When I first got to the board of directors in 1993 or a year later, there was one man from every department, sometimes sharing men. It's important, it's costing money. This has the highest. A minister is very thorough here in speaking, yet no one is better than the highest. The president of the Generalist Council of Einar K. Thesson of God, who came to an approved conclusion. V.E.G. The minister of foreign affairs, both as a diplomat and as a minister, has tore this need. He's even mentioned numbers here. As we will then, crack heads. Vigdís Hauksdóttir and Daðason Efur Daðason from the budgets of the money to which he was supposed to follow the sleek and needy, doesn't seem to be very interested, not a clear perspective all the way. Is it not, then, that this situation, through the Department of Foreign Affairs, has a point to consider and after events to provide guidelines and guidelines? This may be helpful to the highest level. A minister who, as we know of, spends all his energy on everything else.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u48	V.E.G. President. I didn't quite understand the last words. paritaprevir I suppose this is the case with Skarphéðinn the Össur of Skarphéðinsson. On the other hand, I think we're gonna do what. A senator may agree that in preparing funds and financial contributions here at the council, we, who share the same opinion, would need to do more. [[Up front.]] I think it's inevitable for us to consider that the increased human resources involved in this EEA business, both in Brussels and also in the budget at home. I think it's inevitable. I'm not necessarily very kind to say it as a spokesman for the government business, but I think it might be worth more to us not to do it. I think we can agree on that, me and the other. A senator, that it is important for us to be on the Foreign Affairs Committee and others interested in these matters to take advantage of the situation when it comes to handling the budget here at the council and as we can at earlier points as well. There I suppose there's no shortage of will at the highest will. The minister of state is holding to an end, as is the case. A candidate mentioned in his speech has made this clear in discourses on his part. [[Up front.]] - Of course, it's the council that eventually takes sides on the budget and we may be able to apply more than we have done. However, we must also keep in mind that growing people and putting more money on the project is not the only solution and not necessarily the complete solution. I think we also need to, and maybe in a conversation between the government and the Generals, to shift our emphasis so that we put more emphasis and more work on the issues that really matter and spend less time, effort, and money on less important matters. [[The president calls.]] I think this is also a matter of priorities and how we approach our project.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u49	A respectable president. Thank you very much for this discussion, and thank you very much. Ministers for the report and the talk, both in many ways very good and useful. I also thank them why. Councilmen who have preceded the discussion, and I look forward to having a good and upbuilding discussion about foreign affairs today. I would like to state that in my speech, I aim to discuss the report first and not to make up the continuation of foreign and European discussions that have existed here in the last few days except for the immediate follow-up of conferences during the week. Ministers and all of us at the High Council to promote our cooperation, ensure our common understanding of the coming council and that we meet a common understanding of the definition of the synospicles in the coming days and weeks. I expect a lot of discussions there during the council and in committees of the council. In this respect, I agree with the highest. Minister of Foreign Affairs from last night, if I recall correctly, that it is unacceptable and may be very uncomfortable that it depends on what is considered - and then what? - every man's consultation with what. The Foreign Affairs Committee is and when it should be consulted. To this end, I intend to discuss basics first. I want my speech to be encouraging to the highest degree. Ministers and although this may involve some criticism, I would like to state that it should be upbuilding. First, I just want to make sure that foreign affairs are very important to us Icelanders. I'm concerned that in view of their importance both at the council but also in public discussion, those who are looking at foreign matters are not really to defend Iceland's interests, but it's often part of the case that Iceland is a small and energyless country that may be of little value in the great world and our primary role is to have and to have the best pieces removed. Our role as a giver or the role of this small nation in building up world affairs is often overlooked, and in all too many cases, it is small, as though we have nothing to give. I'd like less than the highest. Ministers and all of us agree that in spite of small numbers, the influence of Icelanders has been far beyond its size, especially in certain areas of which we have acted specifically and may have had special knowledge in excess of others. Then I'm thinking about lawsuits, such as the practical use of geologicals and equality. Iceland's foreign policy has given particular emphasis on equality and women's rights and has had a lot and a significant part in this global discussion. I think it's very important for Iceland to continue and celebrate. A minister to the gratitude of that subject. Also, I believe Iceland has an important role in global environmental discussions and not only as a chaser in the global activities of major nations to combat climate change but also simply as a candidate. I think it is important in all our foreign politics and how Icelanders appear internationally that we think about the importance of our environment and of what all our economic and economic systems we live on this northern island depend on the state of the environment being in order, that the sea around the country remains clean and productive. Unfortunately, there are big signs in the world when it comes to special climate change, changes in the ocean, etc. which could have extraordinary effects and greater effect here than anywhere else. This is an angle I have missed a bit in our discussion and the priorities of the northern regions because the Arctic has often been referred to as an area of opportunity and given high emphasis on resource development, increased shipping, etc. but it is equally important for Icelanders to consider that potential environmental impacts and to affect environmental factors are mainly at the top of the Arctic discussion. I just want to pick up the thread that others had. Senators have established, it is boring to see, and now only the report shows how much financial pressures have been made to the important work and important institutions of the State Department and State Services. According to the report, by 2012/2014, if I recall correctly, the values have decreased by 60. We know that much teeth have been reduced from the translation center, and I'm concerned that this will make it difficult for us, meaning that it will be harder to perform all our tasks, that administrative skills may suffer, but at the same time, I would like to thank especially the miracles that have been worked by the Ministry and State Services. It's amazing how much we can do at once. I just wanted to get more involved with the emphasis I mentioned, the emphasis on foreign affairs for Icelanders. In most lands, foreign policy is quite concordable. I'm not saying that there is always a parapolitic community, but at least a broad political convergence on the big lines of foreign affairs. It has to be acknowledged that there is probably not much chance that there will be a wide link between Iceland's European languages in the immediate future, although I calculate firmly by the fact that within 16◯18 months or then everyone will agree. I'm a natural optimist. On the other hand, I think there is a great and broad political agreement on a set point in Iceland's foreign policy, emphasis on human rights, on equality, on the importance of achieving peaceful relations, on the peace of the earth and in our immediate surroundings, not only from our status as an armyless nation but also from our cooperation with our closest friends and neighbors. I would like to emphasize that it is important that in Iceland's foreign policy that we stand for human rights, that we respect between nations and people in general regardless of their origin, gender, and economic situation. I think we can have a bigger, more upbuilding role, but just be the little brother in bigger relationships like the North Atlantic Union. I'm the highest. To impress that subject, a minister reminds him of the supreme. Ministers and such as his predecessors have done well in affecting the discussion, e.g. On the affairs of Palestine and Ukraine, where I believe to be the highest. Ministers have done very well. I'm not going to get ahead of myself and discuss the issues of the Development Agency discussing the bill as the highest level. Minister has proposed. I'll take up a debate that's only been passed out here by reason of it. People before me have changed the world's situation of refugees, especially in our immediate surroundings. We must not forget that as long as Iceland is a member of the Schengen Team, our border is in the Mediterranean Sea and we are participants in the work there. We know that there is war in the Middle East, the war in Syria, and so on. millions are on top of millions. You have heard the claim that there are others now more than ever since the end of World War II. At least in our environment, it is vital that Iceland support and add its weights to trying to compromise this age of war. It is also important to remember that refugees are not only fleeing from war or conflict; refugees are also fleeing from a miserable situation. After millions of refugees, there are millions of individuals. Any individual who makes a flight has his reasons. In particular, there is a poor position of human rights in the land or economic situation that is part of the disparities between wealth and an instrument that, unfortunately, is still prominent in this earth. Thus, as our earth becomes less visible with increasing transport and information about the earth, it is no wonder that people are being flooded more. We who live in the best economic and best conditions here on the northern part of the earth are responsible not only for trying to respond as well as we can to those who come here but also for combating what leads to flight. As I say, there may be conflicts, but there may also be conditions in human rights, and there is no question that one of the major reasons is that there is a difference between the ball and the ball. So I also want to use this opportunity to encourage the highest. Secretary of state and what. A general assembly to improve their efforts to receive refugees. I was at a European conference where I learned that of those refugees who have only come out of the war from Syria, 70% have ended up in Germany and Sweden, just those two countries. It's true that you're right next to what you're talking about. The head of the Foreign Affairs Committee that Icelands are late accepting many millions of refugees, even though this might be interesting, so everything we do is symbolic, but for the individuals we receive it is important. I think it's important that we set a clear policy of taking in more guesses both to get into our system and to improve our abilities and systems in accepting refugees and making them part of our society that I think would be a good introduction to both our society and the general population on earth. [[The president calls.]] Let us not only be acceptable but also rewarding, stress human rights and environment, and accept what is well done and do it better.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u50	V.E.G. President. First, let me name it as a dog. Proppé In many respects, several parts of Iceland's foreign policy are largely united. That, of course, is positive. This has not always been the case, but we can say that over the last few years there has been a basis for making peace over many major aspects of foreign policy. This, of course, is well because it means that in areas where policy prevention is generally reduced, there will be more integration and, therefore, less interference in this relationship. The key factors that affect each other. A senator mentioned, human rights, environmental issues and the like are factors that we all agree with, although we may have time to another point of view how we deal with the individual issues, I think the principle is quite integrated. It is also true that in the years past and decades, despite the conflict between our situation in NATO and in our defense work, there have been no major conflicts now for 25 years. Of course, there are views, especially from our lines of fine coal, from the left movement a ◯ green supply that is different. However, this has not been so controversial in recent years. However, I was going to mention it as far as refugees are concerned. In this connection with economic causes of refugees, dictatorial governments, and other factors, of course, are correct and lead to increased refugee currents. [[The president calls.]] However, the recent explosion that we have seen around the Mediterranean is due to the wars that involve, not individuals, but hundreds of thousands, and even millions are literally fleeing their own lands. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u51	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists, and I agree with him that he certainly is the fastest refugee problem in conflict. The last number I heard about refugees in the shelter only from Syria was 3,275,000. It tells itself that there is an emergency, and of course we have to deal with it and do good there. Although participation in the Mediterranean weekend service is commendable and of great importance, we also need to consider what we are doing here at home when it comes to these matters. I think it's a good thing to do. A senator has agreed to my speech to settle a lot of foreign affairs and foreign policy in Iceland, but in my speech it may not have been clear enough that I wanted to encourage the highest order. A foreign minister to the memento because, while we've laid down and agree to place great emphasis on human rights, on equality, on the environment, I'm concerned that our priorities have only been reduced to praxize. And now that 20 years from the Peking Women's Conference and 15 years have passed since the conclusion of the 1325 United Nations Security Council on Women, Peace, and Security, I feel sad to see that it seems that we have only decreased our focus, or at least we are offering less money and less emphasis on our work in that direction. I wanted to view this as an encouragement. With regard to the Atlantic Alliance and Iceland's involvement, I have to come to that second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u52	V.E.G. President. To understand what I was going to say earlier, if we take a realistic view of things today, there is only one major problem in the framework of our foreign policy, a significant major concern. That's the question of our involvement in the European Union. Of course it doesn't make any difference, because basically we agree on other policy issues, but the inevitable differences will greatly color, what should we say, our discussion of foreign affairs in the near future. I wanted to mention it here. Although there are sometimes European issues on the border between foreign and internal matters, today it is the main question of what course we want to take regarding our relations with neighboring countries or our next neighbors, whether we consider our interests to be better in the European Union or outside. However, it has received and will be discussed with various other members of the great General Assembly so that I will no longer stay with it. I'm just going to add it to the refugee problem that we're looking at the situation at the Mediterranean Sea, both North Africa and Central East today because of the explosion of a number of refugees in that area. There's an enormous amount of fermentation and chaos in many countries that are beyond the reach of an end. It leads to refugees. It also increases the threat of terrorism, and unfortunately in many of these countries, there are extreme groups that pose a real threat not only to their immediate environment but also to us in the Western world. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u53	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator again before the counter-sponsored. I agree that we are living in special times, and if there's something that's safe in our time, time is changing. There are many things in both the country and the global world that will not just change a little but will turn into basics in the coming years or decades. When we talk about the refugee problem, it is certainly the greatest in conflict today, but we do not have to look beyond the interwaring years in the United States, history we know from the book The Sperm of Anger by John Steinbeck, where a large percentage of Americans from the middle countries were released from droughts. I think the effects of climate change will have a major impact over the next few decades, so we need to look at these issues in this context too. Regarding the threat of terrorism, the increase in conflict and how it moves between countries and areas, I can agree that it is obvious that it is happening. This is not just something we need to be aware of and aware that we are part of the world, but we need to understand where this comes from. This, of course, is a product of conflict, as well as a division between wealth and global confusion. That's right. I don't think there's complete agreement with Iceland's presence in the Northern Atlantic, although it might be heard less of the less during our discussion with NATO and after the U.S. Army went off from the Centrals, but that discussion will come up when the Icelands have participated in or supported NATO's military campaigns so that the discussion continues. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u54	President. Right now there's only one senator here, but I hope more people will be added to the hall, where we're dealing with as important a case as the foreign minister's report on foreign and international affairs. As everybody knows, we're not an island even though we're in the middle of an island. Our very existence is intertwined with the whole world, and there are so many things in our world that really have no borders. I have long made myself concerned with international matters, whether in the council or before the council, and I would like to make two or three matters my affairs in today's discussion. As a result of the tragic events that took place in France, many viewed them as an attack on freedom of expression. At the same time, European leaders decided to use the opportunity, on one hand, they claimed to be in shock over this attack of expression freedom, but on the others, they asked for a very broad measure of action to hinder it. I miss a little bit that we will not use more in that area of international work, towards freedom of expression and privacy in the digital world. This report covers many security and protection issues, and I experienced the presence of a member of the NATO Parliamentary Committee that a great deal of online security was discussed. It was about WikiLeaks at that time and prepared a report that was so full of nonsense because those who discussed it did not have a profound understanding or knowledge of the subject. I have seen and shared in various conferences that discuss these matters. The lack of knowledge and excitement around them are indiscriminate and potentially dangerous. That is why I always want to be left behind when dealing with the Internet security issues involved with NATO. When I was a member of the council, I had to make 70 adjustments in a report about this sect, some of which were important that if they had not been changed, I would have to report the report. Fortunately, some of the correction I called for was addressed, but if I hadn't been there, the report would have remained unchanged. According to this report, we've had increased cooperation with the British, but according to the data presented by Edward Snowden, the British have gone a long way to draw together all the information that can be pulled together, but the metaphor of it is to vacuum all our data. I don't think people realize how much intervention this is in the Constitution of basic human rights to be part of our human rights. We are party to various covenants and human rights contracts, e.g. The United Nations, now added to its human rights covenant, has the word both literal, i.e. that immunity is not limited to meat worlds. Although we often have opinions about what they are elsewhere, we are unable to deal with domestic violations of human rights. - You guys talk a little loud. - I'd like to direct it to the secretary of state that he and his staff will ensure that they will receive their reviews and guidance on this series of experts who are not alone in handling these matters from the military wind. This is very important, since armies are built to protect people in the countries. There's another thing I took down from here, and it's about the European Security and Cooperation Agency and human rights. It says that despite the work of ESE and other international institutions, there have been many improvements in the situation of human rights in the ASE region in recent years, and there has been a growing trend toward human rights. You don't have to look beyond Hungary to see that it has a lot to do with it. During 2014 and at the beginning of this year, ESE has mainly directed attention to the protection of expression freedom with special emphasis on the freedom of the media and the safety of journalists. Iceland has crashed into international stations, and we must be concerned here at home that the press organization without a border, U.S.R.R.R.s Without Borders, recently rated what they do in this group of countries. The reason for Iceland's collapse is a great deal of media involvement in politicians in Iceland, especially when former branch assistant of the former State Minister called for journalists to be imprisoned for writing something they later corrected. There would have been no basis for imprisonment anywhere in countries we often compare with, the North and the Western European countries. I think it's very important that we do more in this regard. We've learned quite a bit about where you can find songs that work in praxize, and I'd like to see the focus a little there, and we'd take advantage of the expertise we have. It also discusses many important things that I find important, and I don't want to give a speech just negative. I feel very positive about the way we have used ourselves in the affairs of women of freedom and of sex as well as of homosexuals. I don't think it's how we've fallen behind on developing cooperation. We do not respect the goals we set for ourselves during the last term. What I experience in this report is that we have rich officials, but we lack a strong view of who we are in this international community. What I find so impatient with ourselves in the international context is that we constantly think about what is best for us and forget many times that we are part of this international brotherhood. I feel that we could give more of ourselves and be more aware of our roles. It's been a little bit like the person of action, we take steps that no one else would dare take, and because we are small, we can afford it, and as a result we dare others. During our last term, for example, a resolution on Palestine was adopted, which included many of us being very proud, and Sweden followed. Many attribute it to Sweden to being the first nation in the north to develop such a policy, to act on it, and to be approved at the National Assembly. Still, it was the ex-fiancée. The minister of the State of Össur Skarphéðinsson, who was very responsible for the success of this resolution. For example, I would like us to go south and meet the people at Gaza. A delegation from the General Assembly should go there, and I also feel that an emissary from the Generals should go to Tibet and explore the situation there. Now we're in a very close relationship with the Chinese government because of a vacation contract we made with Tbeta, but we haven't done field reports on the council. I've been watching a little bit, and I've been busy with climate change. Our attitude toward them has greatly disturbed me. It's often the way the changes are working, it'll only be warmer in Iceland. At the same time, because of our course and way of life, many suffer for this long - term lifestyle that we have had. The reason for such an increase in refugees is not just war. Why Will There Be War? It will usually be out of reduced resources because people don't have enough food to eat and out of it come in and take advantage of dissatisfaction in society to get more land or to use more oppression in that country. Of course, we know that vast numbers of refugees are associated with Syria. I think there are about 7 million children in Syria, and no one is accepting them. They're flying over the people there, and bombs send to them with chlorine. I was just reading about it today. This is natural repugnant, and the question must be: How does the foreign minister use himself to assist this large crowd in the covert of Syria? Does it matter to us, or should we just look the other way? We've done very well by saving the boatpower people, but what happens when we save them? It is either sent back or placed in a semitype concentration camp. We're also turning around a lot of people looking for our heads. As a result of the growing flood of refugees around the world for all kinds of reasons, Europe, as some call it, has become, in many ways. There are great defenses around Europe because people fear that they will not be able to accept this ongoing flow of refugees. I would like us to apply ourselves in every way we can, and for example, we can cooperate with the Chinese. They've earned a lot of fame over the last 10 to520 years, sucking out the resources of poor countries in Africa and South America, and now they've got a pretty good foothold in Greenland. We can draw attention to it and call for such a robbery not to interfere. We can also be confident that every time we have business with various tyrants, whether Pútín, Emperor of China or Obama, we will discuss with them the status of human rights. I call only after a sharper vision of who we are in the international context of this summary here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u55	Hv. paritaprevir Jónsdóttir Jónsdottir gave a fine talk, and I agreed with her. Among other things, she discussed the development issues and explained that she wanted to see Iceland do more for them than the country does today. It is proper to remember that this government was not very old at the moment. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir was appointed over a surgery committee, and she cut down funds for development with the highest approval. Secretary of State, at least here at the council's votes, on the amount of $2.3 billion today. It's quite high. I also review it in the middle of a precluding race. In an interview, a senator said that this was just the beginning. We've seen it. A senator will keep his word, for as a result, this has now turned toward the highest standard. Secretary of State, though he never mentioned it in his earlier speech, to cancel the development community service. V.E.G. In his speech, a minister also said that it was wishful that the Icelanders could give us more attention when we had a better time. Then I'm going to review that this week's data indicated that national production, as well as national contributions to development, would be higher than 2007 in the year, which was the Great Cub. Then I'll ask why. A senator: So how does she feel about the highest performance? The Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Government for Development Funds? And if I'm allowed in the utmost kind and respectful way in the future, I'll also pray. A senator on her mind, if she has already developed it, will plan to abandon the development community.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u56	Thank you so much for the questions. They are very important. I was listening to a very interesting aspect of the BBC in the week, where a study on the effect of wealth on people, people who were powerful and/or had a lot of money, how they changed people. One study was that people were asked who had the most right to get on the Titanic's first boat. The rich and powerful people felt that they should go first, not necessarily because of anything but because they viewed it as superior to the right of life. Similarly, people were asked to draw themselves for their wealth or power. The richest people drew the biggest bubble around themselves. And it's also a fact that those who have the most are generally remembered, you don't need research to reach that conclusion, you just need to see it. Those who are poor are the most generous. The policy of the chairman of the Department of State and the Minister of State is to cut down when we are well off is in harmony with such a sick thought. It is heartbreaking to not be able to pass on to the poorest of his brothers a way out of poverty by developing cooperation. I'm gonna answer the other question about the development network better afterwards, I'm done with my seconds.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u57	Madam President. Fortunately, that is not absolute. Think of the names of two of the richest individuals in the world or of the group, Bill Gates, who gives most of their wealth to support construction in Africa, and Warren Buffet, who have followed the same path. But if we stick to a state, it's still such that a country near Iceland, which we often consider equal in terms of attitudes and human rights, is doing much better. The entire North countries are doing much better than Iceland, at least twice, even more. I name Sweden, Finland, Norway, Denmark. If I take land like Britain, who truly went through difficult things too, squeezed into their financial lives. Yet, in certain sectors, for example, they contributed, and the greatest cutout was there in Britain during a special campaign in Africa to vaccinate children against malaria and another year. I'll take that as an example. If I mention another nation, Ireland, that fell into conflict, in a very similar situation to ours, it pays today which corresponds to 0.46% or 0.47% of the land production in developing cooperation and does not intend to go down, it is beginning to rise above. We're going downhill, we're about 0.22%. If people want to be good, we can get up to 0.23% of land production. That is the difference between us and them, but we are even more rich when compared with each individual. Does this not show a close nature and a lack of respect for the lives of people who are in danger because of the world's poor world?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u58	President. Yeah, it's pretty close, and it's embarrassing. I just think it's embarrassing, that's all I'm ashamed of. However, it has to be said that, as it is, some call this government the rich people, and they have more generosity to those who need it than they really need, whether in our country or in our worldwide work. It's sad. Nothing will change, not with this government. We will continue to shame ourselves internationally in this regard. But it must also be said that at times we may be embarrassed in a worldwide field when we pretend to know the most about geothermal energy. For example, now it is to be found that there is no infinite energy and that it needs to be taken care of very well, as has been seen on Hellishi. I really hate that we're pretending to know more and to share knowledge of things we're still investigating. Therefore, I think that in the worldwide work we need to show more generosity and true knowledge. We've done well in terms of women freedoms in Iceland, compared with many countries we're comparing ourselves to, but we're very uncomfortable when it comes to sharing responsibility for development cooperation and might imitate the United States. With regard to the development community and what's going on there, I need to learn more about the bill. But I understand why. A senator says this is not a good step. I will certainly study that very much, and I will form a thorough inspection there once I have done so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u59	A respectable president. So I pick up the thread where it got by. A senator who before me spoke about the inequities of the world would not have been able to explain more about the threat of world peace as a result of a growing inequities between world areas and within countries. The United Nations has repeatedly noted in reports that increasing inequities in the world are the greatest threat to world peace. True, we look at international positions that concern us and, as noted in the report, is more wary than has long been around the world, but I think we should take seriously the United Nations tip and their experts that part of the problem is increasing inequities. It is part of the refugee problem that we already face, but no more have been on the run for war since the end of World War II. These are the grim stories we hear almost every day of refugees trying to get to Europe, children without parents to flee war. Of course, I feel that it is our primary role, as do other nations, who live in great prosperity - in spite of the events we have suffered for them, we still enjoy great prosperity, are still well - founded on all the arts of life, and are looking forward to slowly and surely building up that art - internationally, primarily to promote a peaceful world for all these people, all these children, and their parents. I would've liked to have more discussion about this in a discussion about security and defense. When discussing these matters, I feel that all too often the emphasis is on just armor and armor, not on what we can really do to ensure world peace. That is exactly how we do our part in developing cooperation, so I agree with it. The members of the council who spoke before, Birgitta Jónsdóttir and Aggiri, the son of Skarphéðinsson, need to be done much better. How damaging it is that there has been a decline from the interpretation arrangement adopted here by the only 2013 Conventional Conventional Convention. Then, the head of its mold code became agrier. Chairman of the budget board. I don't know if this one principle has weighed more than the 62 votes paid by the development team plan. It's just like what's going on. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's obituary pointed out that although the British went through a crisis and managed a lot on the domestic scene of cuts and of various measures, I do not intend to measure all the relief done there, but it was remarkable that there was a parapolitic community to increase the contribution to development of cooperation to meet the UN's standards. That's what I think the Icelanders are doing. I've seen that the introductions I've received in the work of the Development Team in our cooperation countries show that there's a huge deal going on there, and the projects are going to be successful. Of course, we should watch, not just the sums of money that run into our assignments, but the results. I think we can be quite proud, and we can be happy with whatever results the money we put into it. I have no doubt that by following the strategy adopted and increasing the budget, we will see many of the results of that work. I repeat, as I have before, at the highest level. Ministers that there should be a guide in our foreign policy how we can work toward a peaceful world. That's what we do, number one, two and three by applying ourselves in the way we do through development cooperation. I don't have to say it, but I'm going to do it because I always do it in discussions about this report that our policy in the left green towards the Atlantic Community remains the same. We don't think that we have a reason in it, and we actually believe that as the years unfold, the facts show that the policy of warfare that the alliance has not produced a peaceful world. Of course, like others, I recoil at what is present in the Middle East and about the crimes represented by the terrorist or criminal organization ISIS, not only with people but also with culture. It was very interesting that at a meeting of the State Department with Bernharðsson, who visited the Committee's committee not long ago that we cannot look at what is happening now without looking at the history of this area in recent decades, the rampant warfare and violence that has raged there. We cannot take what is happening from the fact that most weapons sold in the world today are streaming to the Middle East, streaming to Saudi Arabia from the same countries that make up the Atlantic Alliance. So we can ask ourselves, and we now have a discussion in Sweden about this precisely: " Is it going to be more effective? ' does the world's arms sales or continue to drop bombs at people's heart, perhaps in a specific way? I view it as a criminal organization, and that's how I feel it should be handled. I especially want to discuss the climate issues that I did a little bit of a talk about earlier, which I believe is one of the largest things in the community. I mentioned the need for us to set our course in the affairs of the sea. V.E.G. A minister took it well. I reiterate that I expect us to see such suggestions as soon as fall, because it's a playoff case. It is not too long since the European Union of the European Union, once known as LIVU and the Association of Fish Processing Corporations, has even concluded on these issues, since they realize how huge this interest is. This is not only a matter of those interested in the environment, of the environment itself, for the sake of men, but also of huge interests for the Icelanders, where we rely heavily on the seabed. We could see a completely different environment in the sea around us. I expect the next year, when we get a report of foreign and international foreign ministers and we read about the issues of the ocean, we'll have a policy that's taking over the issues because it's not just about us making use of those found in the ocean around us, it's about the fact that they're on the scene and we can use them. So I repeat this routine as well as a review of climate events. There I think that Iceland and I have huge parishes, living as well as we do of natural resources, water and earth heat as anything else. We could be taking faster steps toward energy exchanges in order to create transportation and in the fishing fleet, and we should represent a very powerful global presentation to move on this. We do it to some extent through the earth-heat projects we've been doing, but there I think we need to sharpen our voice, because even if we're a small people, we can have a lot to say by reporting what we're doing. We, however, need to take our place here, and there's something I should talk to especially the highest. Environment Minister, but we need to take much faster steps in energy exchanges, whether by fishing vessels or by transportation on land. There is a new meeting in Paris in December. There you will set goals that have not yet been discussed at this assembly. I hope that they will be discussed at the General Assembly and discussed at the end of this discussion. Environment Committee and State Department, because this is where we are supposed to be in the lead to talk with ambitious goals. It's disappointing how we've been able to achieve climate issues since the Rio Declaration and the Kyoto Protocol. The failure to achieve the goals set out there is tremendous disappointment that the nations have given themselves to work toward that goal. That's why I think the Paris Summit is very important - we say, in fact, every meeting is the most important one - but we're also looking at the changes that are beginning to occur. What was going on at Vanuatu now? Let's just watch these extra extremes in the weather. We cannot overlook this, and we cannot try to point out that it is just another volcano. All scientists who express themselves on the matter internationally, almost everyone agrees that we need to face the fact that this is the case with human climate change. It's a matter we can't handle on our own. Though there are things we can do in our back yard, the decisions are made on a global scale. I'd also like to talk about European languages for a while. As I came to this very short point earlier, there was a meeting yesterday on the EEA Treaty claiming that the contract was an orphan in the administrative system, with the help of human resources both in the administration and in Brussels so that the Icelanders would have more influence on what was done in that field. There was a lack of discussion in this country about the agreement and whether he served the interests they felt were at the beginning. This meeting was fine. What struck me when I read the State Minister's report is what they say about a control group, with the permission of a president: The implementation of the EEA contract has been established by the management team at the head of the Ministry of Presidency, sharing in other recruitment campaigns and the General Office. The objective is to identify bottlenecks in EEA procedures from their beginning at the EU field to the end of national induction. The group is intended to submit some suggestions about the individual aspects of the process. Thus, the EEA Convention will be conducted with efficiency and at the same time provide scope to further focus on the early diagnosis of legislation in the EEA field and priorities, setting up a consistent response in larger interests. We face a great coalition hall that is complained about. There is also a complaint at the General Assembly, and there is nothing bound to the fact that the matter is coming in without sufficient explanation, that it is complicated and twisted, and there is a lack of a clearer response from the government. This was shown in the case of the highest. Foreign Minister to the European policy of the government had not followed any financial contributions. There's been no financial charge. A management group that has made suggestions has been set up. We have a lot of suggestions, a respectable president. I was a member of a European committee myself. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's bug, huh? paritaprevir The Einar K. The Son of Guðfinnsson and more of them. Councilmen and other people. That committee was under the lead of Björn Bjarnason, son of Björn. It gave them detailed suggestions on what might be done to promote EU interest control and was directed to the government, to the Generals, to the administrations and to other parties. That work was completed in 2007. Another European committee continued to be set up. Her work was primarily on currency issues, and I too sat there. The motions lie on the table and have been on the table for a long time, i.e. that if we are going to have an increased impact on the implementation of the EEA contract it needs to be done with increasing human resources. It was interesting to me that yesterday's meeting showed that there is something missing about the development of the EEA Convention. Is the institutions of EFTA intended to monitor this agreement? Do they have the strength or not? How does that affect us? The development of the European Union, which is a source of the Convention, has been very different from the development of EFTA. Of course, the number of riches in EFTA has declined. The European Union has been dealing with everything else, such as the currency of their problems. It contains compelling questions that need to be answered as to whether the relationship is going to be a much closer partnership in the area of taxes, in a money policy in order to run a common currency, or if it is going to develop in another way. This strain seems quite visible to me, but while the EEA treats the EEA and people point out that he is even a member of the Brussels government. So there is some question about how we can deal with this, except that Norway has a considerable debate about the politics that for Norway the choice of the future is either to enter the European Union or to make a two-way agreement with the European Union, such as Switzerland. There are doubts about the EEA deal. This is something I think we need to talk about. If the policy has not been covered, I know from past experience that it can be very difficult to enforce policy if there is no room for it. I was going to mention a number of other points in the report, but I'm going to finish my case by saying that I think it's very important that we apply ourselves internationally in what we are good at, and here we are referred to earlier equality and freedom of women. I agree that Iceland has done a great job there. I think we should also consider what else we can work with on the international level and in particular encourage that this will be done regarding pollution and the affairs of the sea. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u60	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter for a fine speech. She repeated in her talk the unique position of the left movement ◯ green offer to oppose Iceland's membership in the Atlantic Union and talk, as its spokesmen have long made, that other ways were better to ensure safety in a world that is very consigned. I wondered about whether she thinks that nothing is, if we can say so, in the 5th paragraph. NATO Treaty, which is the fundamental principle that the attack on one of the Member States, is an attack on all of them. It has been thought of as being subversive, it means that others think twice before attacking one member of the Community because they are in conflict with all of them. But I ask that this is, of course, we can say, in the face of Europe's greatest link between the Baltic States, which so appreciates, Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania, to their involvement in the Atlantic Alliance and the existence of 5. is, in fact, their primary defense against the Russian expansion policy and policy of authority, which has so clearly appeared to us in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u61	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the question. It may well be that in the playground on which the Atlantic Union is based, this old - fashioned playground, we can say, a war struggle as we have known it in the 20th century, this article allows a measure of power toward traditional government warfare. But I prefer to look at that case from a little different perspective. I'm critical of the very basis of the scene myself, the playground itself. Certainly I do not belittle the fact that the governments of these countries see it as a crime to be within a military alliance, we have seen it. However, I am very skeptical that this military alliance is actually a means of creating a peaceful world. I pointed earlier to the twin skin that I feel is in looking at the largest arms dealer in the Western world, which is pumping weapons into other parts of the world. Where are they using them? Yes, they're shooting down innocent tourists in a museum in Tunisia just yesterday, terrible crimes are committed every day. We should think about it, the foundations of the military machine that I think the Atlantic Union is part of, because I really think it's a defense response to a very sick condition.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u62	V.E.G. President. Yes, there are better things to do in this world. When we discuss these matters, consider a few countries on the border of a superpower like Russia, which today runs harder and some would say more aggressive policy than it did a few years ago, and whether they would answer the direct appeal of such a kingdom, even warfare on its part, by coming to it and saying, "Hey, no, I'm not quite satisfied with the reasons, we're discussing this on the wrong basis. It may be the reality that people face in the Baltic States, that they believe that being in the Atlantic Community and after incidents increased the presence of military forces on the part of the Atlantic Union, plans to help if attacked, that there is a real reaction to real danger. Thus, the state of the Atlantic alliance has been since its beginning. Of course, while circumstances have changed in various ways over the years, they have been the perplexing attitude and are, in effect, 5. The covenant is the very essence of the cooperation involved. Of course, many of the world's double skins are, for example, the peace - loving Swedes of large weapons importers, and so on. As a response to a critical position and direct threat, I don't think the Western countries will have more control than in Article 5. [[The president calls.]] The NATO covenant.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u63	A respectable president. Actually, I think we're gonna do what. A senator will be late to agree on these matters, for I mentioned earlier and could mention many examples in which the intervention of the Atlantic Community has not brought better conditions than worse conditions. I must add a question mark to the fact that the Community's work practices produce as little results as they can see in this uncomfortable world. Then I say, "Wait, don't you think there must be other methods that work?" There have been studies of how people in an apartment building work. This is interesting for a woman who has lived in many apartments throughout her life. Studies show that many fear their neighbors until they get to know them and talk with them. As a result, increased communication often results in a better feeling for all who live in the apartment. Now I'm not going to say that this is necessarily appropriate, and I'm not absolutist in that there may be a reason to react. Of course, there may be reason to respond to the attacks of other countries, I am not absolubleist, but I place a huge question mark in the working procedures of the Atlantic Community, which rarely give them greater democracy and the increased peace they are supposed to achieve. That's what I know. I agree with a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u64	Mr. President. I wondered if Eistar, Letts, and Lithuania are very interested in getting to know their neighbors much better than they already know them. There's a comment. There is no need for a senator to come over. I like what I'm doing. A senator and president of the State Department of State, Birgir son of Ármannsson, are interested in hearing a little deeper into the attitude of both of them. A senator with the Atlantic Alliance. I'm not going through any pitfalls with the senator's position, but isn't it true that before the left movement of a green party wants to go out of the Atlantic Alliance, they'd like to ask the people? I remember my nice partner in these sales, huh? paritaprevir The wonder of Ögmundur the son of Jónasson has proposed a decree to be a national law. Is it not quite true that even if it does not? Might a senator become prime minister until any time, but will he not let his first task be to leave NATO without questioning the people? That was the question. Second, I just wanted to talk to her about her decision to conduct the European policy of the government. As we shall, the government presented in the media on March 11, 2014, new European policy. It was the plan that Iceland would come earlier to legislators' policies that would mean that they needed more human resources in Brussels. Secondly, conference groups were to be created for analysis of opportunities and fourth, to promote the cooperation of Norway and Liechtenstein. True, I forgot one thing, the contract was to be evaluated on the 20th birthday, that was last year. None of that has ever happened, so I know, you've never heard of anything, it was a minor foreign case, and you've never introduced a council or a foreign committee. But you don't think why. A member of the State Department of Foreign Affairs says that we need to record this and apply it to the Committee how is the implementation of this European policy, which appears to have been by no means except by the Board of Directors and never beyond? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u65	A respectable president. I can assure you what. A senator that the left movement has so far been the only political movement that is formally involved in its policy of not being a part of the Atlantic Community. So we have suggested, as in other controversial matters, that it is proper to ask the nation, and such a vote should not be feared by any human. Of course, it was never at the time when it was decided to enter the Atlantic Community, and that would not be wrong, for we have a national bill for the continuation of the European Union, which I imagine must soon happen to ask people on the way to this. Then there is government policies for Europe. Clearly, a senator has memorized, something remarkable, since we have not seen much of the progress or increase in that direction. That's right, there was supposed to be an assessment of interest in the EEA. I have not seen that representatives of the government still speak of such an evaluation, which was to lie before the fall of 2014, which is now past. It is also presented to a group of consultations and emphasis on continuing North and Western cooperation to promote the protection of interest in Europe's environment. Nor have I heard of it, and perhaps I have reason to ask especially the highest. Minister of staff to follow. As far as we're concerned. The members of the State Department of State are informed. There is, of course, reason to request a report on the implementation of the European policy into the Generality Hall, so we can understand exactly what to do and whether some of the policies presented there were to be terminated.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u66	Mr. President. You're right about what you're doing. A senator says there are many things we need to ask the highest order. Foreign Minister's office later on. I'm sure there'll be a lot more discussion than this one here. When you read that report, there are many conflicting sources. I'm not going to have any further words on our course of course. A senator and her party to the Atlantic Alliance, I am well acquainted with it. It's only because I'm a spokesman for a direct democracies that I'd like to justify that it's the policy of the Party to do it through national law. I am the European policy of the government. I remember very well when she was introduced, and I realized that she was not to be introduced to a foreign government committee. As a result, I concluded that she fell according to a definition under minor foreign affairs and did not make myself out of it. On the other hand, we have on this day, in opposition to what. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, listen to the highest. Secretary of state describes the bankruptcy of that policy. It was here earlier today. V.E.G. A minister agreed that he had no manpower and that it had been taken from him money to survive the contract. The former minister of the State Department, now in the position of our highest authority at the EFTA Institute, has described it and done much in the media during the last few days that the EEA Convention is running, not being served, he is a capitalist, and the Icelanders are not taking advantage of the opportunities he gives, the Icelanders are not taking advantage of their interests. It was all European policy. Governments should put forth special effort to care for his interests. It has been shown that this is not done by the highest level. The minister of foreign affairs does not seem to have authority to obtain the necessary tools. It's time for Iceland's interests. Me and what. A member of the Foreign Affairs Commission is expected to use the European Commission as a means of execution if it does not care for Iceland's interests. That's why I'm asking. Senator: Is it not right that we call for the Committees of Sverrir Haukur Gunnlaugsson and get his attitude and get the minister to the committee to tell us what it's like to do or to neglect Iceland's interests? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u67	A respectable president. I'll take what I want. paritaprevir Acoustics, Skarphéðinsson's son. Hv. The head of the State Department is sitting right here in a side room. I think it's important for the committee to cover in view of the fact that Sverrir Haukur Gunnlaugsson, former general, like a dog. A senator mentioned, was very harsh yesterday and put it that no one would show their affection or concern for the Icelandic government at the moment and that would be a fundamental reason for the failure of the contract and the need to make a big walk. So I believe that it is correct to consider this matter, and I also agree that the European policy of the government is in line with previous suggestions. As I mentioned above, most of the proposals of Europe's policy are very much at the head of the European Commission of Björn Björn, and others from 2007, except in this respect, as remarkable as it is today, that there is little to it about the role of the Generals in these proposals. These proposals specifically stated that the Council should appoint a specific European Committee, which would have the responsibility to handle both the EEA contract and other issues involved in dealing with the European Union. Perhaps there is reason to believe that the Foreign Affairs Committee will consider this and ask whether it is not a reason for the Congress to take the initiative in how we follow this agreement and to protect Iceland's interests, for while the government is of course responsible, and the government that serves under the government is responsible there for all responsibility, it is important that the council be able to carry out its own role, and the council needs to have room to be able to do so. Although there have been a lot of better moves, to form in terms of the fact that the EEA Guidelines come a lot earlier to the Foreign Affairs Committee, which is a very positive and good step, I think that this work could be much more powerful and better.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u68	V.E.G. President. In this discussion today, I want to talk specifically about international security and sound like I'm in a similar tone. paritaprevir A Birgir Ármannsson of a year, president of the Foreign Affairs Committee. In the U.S. Marshal's report. A minister teaches many grasses, and I'm going to spend less than a few points in addition to reviewing the discussions that took place at a Senate conference on the European Union State and Security Policy held in Riga in Latvia at the beginning of March. Then I sat with them why. Councilmen Birgir the son of Ármannsson and Óttar Proppér. The climate is now agriering, but the situation in Ukraine and the changing of Europe's security issues were high at the conference, the situation at the Mediterranean, and the rise of terrorist organizations. For example, in Ukraine and Russia, the European Foreign Minister Federica Mogherini stressed that Europe is not reaching out for a conflict with Russia and that despite the whole European Union team in various aspects of international affairs, it was designed to form into nuclear talks with Iran. Carl Bildt, former Swedish minister of foreign affairs, was a special guest of the conference. He said that in August 2008, he made a serious mistake of not responding strongly to a Russian invasion of Georgia. Although the Western countries would have protested the invasion, they were still ready to cooperate with Russia a year later, as if nothing had happened. Thus, the Russian government may have expected to have less response from the West to the inden of Crobyga and its intervention in eastern Ukraine than it did. The so - called abbreviated war - I have found no greater meaning than that in the word '-hybrid Bear, Mr. President - a very complex position to the Russians and an assessment of the response of the Atlantic Alliance, which has been practiced by Russia in Ukraine. What is this thing? What is the definition of this new kind of warfare? Mr. President. I'm gonna try to explain it a little bit. In such warfare, a state's stability is undermined by a series of actions that may include Internet attacks on information, propaganda wars on network and community media, covert military operations of unmarked soldiers, and cooperation with criminal forces armed by an attacker. In unconventional warfare, there is no personal battle line, and an attacker tries to make the battle look like a civil war on the surface rather than an invasion war. The soldiers of the attack are unmarked and blended into a group of national government opposers as well as the claims that the respective government opposers are persecuted. It has been noted that there is a real threat because conventional warfare activities will be used against NATO countries, especially the Baltic States, where large Russian - language smaller parts live. In the 5th. The Atlantic Convention guarantees that an attack on one NATO state will be an attack on all states of the Atlantic Community. Iceland is in NATO, so this exchange of discussions, unorthodox warfare, and 5. The Atlantic Convention, very important to us. Today's debate is a report by the secretary of state, but since I have chosen to discuss international and security matters, I'd like to talk a little bit more about the discussion that took place at this council conference, which was very illuminating. At the above - mentioned meeting, the assistant director of NATO, Alexander Vershbow, also said that there is no reason to reconsider Article 5. with regard to unconventional warfare. However, the collective understanding of the United States on this article would be important. Vershbow said that if NATO State is attacked by unconventional warfare, a decision would be made on the basis of information from the state that is attacked, plus the information of other alliances' intelligence services. They heard at the meeting that the application of unorthodox military operations could go very fast, so they could take some time for the Atlantic Council, which has the highest decision within NATO, to assemble and activate 5. At the Conspiracy Summit in September. In Wales the debate was largely about how to react to changes in Europe's security prospects as a result of Russia's actions against Ukraine and the rise of radicals in Syria, Iraq, and North Africa. Following the hearing, the prime minister of Iceland announced that the Icelandic government would further promote its activities and contributions for its own defenses and to the Community. The Russian insurgent Crimea and its persistent support for apartheid in Ukraine mark a number of water divorces in the relations between the Atlantic Union and Russia. In March 2014, the Alliance halted all cooperation and military cooperation with Russia. There is still an open possibility for a meeting at an ambassador's level in the area of NATO-Russ, although a meeting has not been announced there for the past few months. Unfortunately, Mr. President, there is little evidence that any relationship between the alliance and Russia will change for the next loss. Russia has been a friendly nation of Icelanders for decades, and business with Russia is very important to Icelanders. I'm sorry it's happening to us. The Icelandic government will continue to emphasize this good friendship and bond, but it cannot be avoided that this Russian approach to the Ukraine will affect that relationship. The government has given great importance to our friends in Ukraine to respect democratic rights and principles and to protect the rights of all the people of the country. Great improvement is needed, and the international community is very important to support Ukraine in political, economic, and social matters in two - side communication as well as in the interests of international institutions. V.E.G. The minister of the State of Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson has declared the political support of Iceland on both two - side meetings and international meetings, including the U.S. in his talk at the UN General Assembly in September and at the International Community Foreign Ministership Conference in December. Then Iceland has engaged in international forced labor because of the Russian dispute. It may also be that Icelanders and Ukraine have decided to initiate cooperation in the field of geologic warming and energy saving institutions in Ukraine. The task is to map out opportunities for the implementation of land geologic warming, and the Icelandic government has granted 8.5 million. K. To do so. This project, I think, is very positive. Is it possible for humans to adjust for peace and to come to an understanding of what matters should be done in Ukraine? The message of hope in the darkness today is that a convention of presidents of Ukraine, Russia, and France and German chancellor in Minsk on February 12 was reached. The meeting includes a cease - fire, which seems to remain largely still, even though there are still fights in certain areas. The agreement also recognized that the overall solution calls for a new constitution for Ukraine, which has increased power for the provinces, as well as legal status for the province Doetsk and Luhansk. This idea is based on the Russian claim, but a minister report states that it is likely that it will be difficult to achieve a political agreement on this point between different states in Ukraine. The report also shows that in the February 12 agreement, direct words are not excluded that the Constitution and total solution that are now referred to as a way to a federal relationship. At the end of a meeting in Minsk, the chairman of Ukraine did not seem to take that idea of a state of state based on how he expressed himself to reporters. It's still very uncertain. Before I do my coverage of Ukraine and Russia, I'd like to draw out one more point from the report by the secretary of the United States, the European Security and Cooperation Organization. The report reports that the Ukraine conflict has tested the cooperation of the ESE field, while both Russia and Ukraine are involved in the Agency as well as most of Europe's countries, as well as the United States and Canada. There has been an important meeting to stop the conflict, and in March 2014, a year ago, a partnership among all 57 EU Member States was reached to set up a special surveillance project in Ukraine to reduce tension and promote peace. Iceland was represented in this group and has supported the ÖSE project in Ukraine with over 80 of you. EUR contribution. Time will reveal the developments in Ukraine and its consequences, but it can be said to be unstable. The threat of war is real in the eyes and hearts of many, especially the inhabitants of the former Soviet Union and the east country. Another threat to many areas today is the Islamic State, ISIS. Daily, we hear news from the media of their atrocities, the atrocities that are so terrible. They spare no one, not even children. This terrible terrorist organization was in Iraq for years but was quickly mixed up in the Syrian civil war that began in 2011 with a rebellion against the Bashar Al-Assad-Assad regime. At the beginning of 2014, ISIS grew to the spine, attacking inside Iraq and achieving considerable land conditions. About the middle of the year, the organization established a caliphic system under the name of the Islamic Empire. In fact, the results of the Iraq government's response to ISIS's invention were not strong enough, but the direction of the former prime minister in Iraq seemed to contribute to the rise of ISIS. Haider Haider-Al-Abadi is now in Iraq, but he belongs to a hospital member. He has been moderate in his efforts to meet the demands of both Sunna and Kurdah. Mr. President. I found an interview yesterday at Þorkell Bernharðsson, our chief expert on the affairs of the Middle East and now serves as a professor at the University of Williams in the United States. We on the State Department were so lucky not long ago to have Magnús see us and discuss these matters. It was very interesting to hear him relate, but in this issue of March 18, the President's permission states: ▪ When the organization first appeared, people did not know who they were, and they did not know exactly what they were. Many viewed this as a force that could be followed, and there might be something attractive about this organization. All these videos that have been published by the organization, reports of how they have behaved in these parts, and this brutal violence that we have seen, however, has not led to the general population in the Middle East looking to these organizations as some positive force and the power of freedom and democracy. If the Kurds receive international support and more and larger weapons from the international community in their fight against ISIS, I can imagine that it will happen to be the once-in-a-half months. This tells Magnús during the interview, and then he goes on to learn more about Kurda's situation and future checks about that nation. The situation in this part of the world is very complex. International institutions have contributed to making peace, for example, in the highest report. Minister that in September 2014 the United Nations Security Council of Safety has agreed on a resolution concerning foreign warriors who joined ISIS and their other terrorist organizations. It is estimated that there are now some 13 thousand of them from some 80 countries, of which 31,000 are from Europe. The conclusions include regulations aimed at preventing them from going from one country to another. Since August we have the United States. Supporting the Kurda and the Iraqi army with air raids on ISIS bases in Iraq. Their success has been that the government has restored large territories. But what's in Iceland's entrance to the battle against this deadly terrorist organization? All the states of the Atlantic Community, and Iceland are within the board, the European Union and ten Arab countries have declared their support for the battle against ISIS. Iceland's foreign minister attended the first meeting in Brussels in December. There, a minister announced that Iceland would support emergency and humanitarian assistance to civilians through UN institutions. At the beginning of the year, the United States presented proposals for the cooperation of countries involved in the fight against ISIS. There were five work groups that covered different factors, such as measures to ensure future stability in areas liberated from ISIS's campaigns and measures to prevent fighting men who intend to join ISIS. The five workgroups will set up programmes, coordinate support of the EU and call for their donations, provide information and provide suggestions for support. The current report shows that when there is more information on the work groups, it will be determined whether or how Iceland can contribute to the work group involved in ensuring future stability. V.E.G. President. My time is running out, but finally, I just want to thank you for this fine report. I thought it was very informative and informative, but I'm sure you can criticize something, and it'll just take a closer look and discussion later.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u69	Mr. President. I can agree with that with what. A senator I believe is an excellent report. Sadly, nothing is lacking in it, but it is not without the fulfillment of the promises. The government gave up a major litigation party. That's not my subject. We have discussed this report here today, as well as the recent discussion of government traffic. However, it was primarily a discussion that depended on the last days. Still, I would like to get the opinion of why. A senator owns one of the main issues there. Hv. Many people then discussed the matter, and earlier today also felt that the government had no authority to withdraw the application for involvement in the European Union except by the Generals, i.e. that the Council would have to accept a particular conclusion about this and appear uncertain to each person as we have heard of the last days. In 2011 two went down. Councilmen of the Foreign Party submit to a synonym. Its report says, with permission of the president: The Council of Parliament has proposed to withdraw applications for involvement in the European Union. Then comes this sentence, written by that senator, who often reminds us that it is the most learned lawyer of the forwarding party in these sales. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir. It's like this: ▪ The Council alone has the power to retract the application. My simple question. A senator agrees with his sister and brother. The members of Vigdís Hauksdóttir and Ásmundur, the Einar Daðason of Daðsson, that it is only the General Assembly that can retract the application?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u70	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Aggressor for an excellent answer and I'd like to have a reason to answer that question here. I agree with the words he dropped here before and before. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter also discussed the European policy of the government. I agree that we need to sit over it and review these things and see if we can do better. It's our job to protect Iceland's interests and secure them in all things. As for this council proposal that I keep from 2011, I now have to accept it as a new senator, although I have sat for almost two years, that I have not read it but have seen the sentences as valid. A senator refers to him. Despite the wind. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir is a learned lawyer who seems to have not covered the value of the Senate because in recent days we have seen in the media, and it has also been presented here in the Generals Office, the legal essays on the value of the synonym. It's not legal. I'm not a lawyer. I don't intend to bring a legal evaluation here in this chair, but refer to the legal classes we've all read in the past few days.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u71	V.E.G. At one time, the minister of foreign affairs agreed with those words. paritaprevir Hauksdóttir, the Hawkdotttir. He thought it was right, but when it was convenient for him, i.e. Last night, at the end of his week - old expedition, he had redesigned his mind again and thought it had been wrong in his time. I'm not going to go after this for what I'm doing. Senator, I just wanted to see if she agreed. I can't blame her for her inconsistency, she didn't sit here at the council at the time. But I have to say, we're getting quite few in these sales, which are keeping the guard on legal reputation. paritaprevir Hauksdóttir, the Hawkdotttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u72	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Secretary of State for a clear report on foreign and international affairs that I intend to make up the subject of the next few minutes and kill on various items that will be presented and the report, which is important to me. First, I'm going to talk about cooperation between the European states and the Baltic States of three, Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania, which is very important, especially at this time because of the developments that have taken place in foreign affairs by Russia's conduct with the illegal inns of the Crimea and the conflict in the East Ukraine. A powerful informal partnership exists between the Northern Foreign Council and the Baltic States, which is referred to at NB8 or Nordic Baltic 8 according to a report by the minister of foreign law. In 2014, the English took the lead, moving each year between the countries and accepting Danir at the end of the New Year's Eve, 2015. Over the 20 years since Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, and Lithuania regained their independence, the NB8 Union has greatly improved. As with the international work of the North countries, the benefits of informal and flexible action in cooperation with the Baltic States have been stressed, and the cooperation of the NB8 countries includes many areas and institutions of the administrations of the countries. For example, in 2012 a number of different fields of cooperation, such as energy, financial, business, Internet security, public security, nuclear security, sexual equality, and democracies, were developed. For example, according to a report from the Foreign Ministers of the NB8 Association, a joint statement due to the imprisonment of a police officer who was taken away by Russian security forces within the Estonian border encouraged by the Russian government to release him. Similarly, in March the Ministers of the NB8 and Ministers of Poland, Czech Republic, Slovakia, and Hungary found that the affairs of Ukraine and the status of other countries in eastern Europe, the country's terrorist and energy security were discussed. The Ministers also discussed the rise of the ISIS terrorist organization and how the international community might react to its own atrocities. The secretary of state reports to the highest level. Ministers have reenacted that there will be no decline in Iceland from the fundamental values guided in the foreign policy of the country, i.e. Show respect for international law, democracy, human rights, and the legal kingdom. Then the minister repeated the cooperation of Iceland with the Baltic States. That's good. From conversations I've had with members of the Baltic States at the National Council on matters related to this area, I know that great fear has festered among these neighbors and friends because of the development of issues in Ukraine and the unstable conditions it has created for the Baltic States and Europe all. Therefore, the informal and formal cooperation between the Northern Foreign Council and the Baltic States, which embraces this fine name NB8, is to be carried out, as stated earlier, and highlights an important aspect of Iceland's cooperation and initiative. A respectable president. Now, I'd like to step in on the resource and environment, which are a great deal as early as ever in the foreign affairs of our Icelanders. Responsible association with national resources is the core of the current government policy, focusing on sustainable use for land and sea. It is extremely important to protect Iceland's interests from the protection and consumption of the oceans around us, which is our main resource. There, signs of danger such as acidification and global warming must be looked at because of climate change that could completely change the situation here. The North Atlantic has also to be identified with changes in marine environment and, like local fish stocks in Iceland. With climate warming, however, there will be significant changes in this world, and Arctic ice in which the ice is rapidly decreasing, and a new world picture will be ours when sailing begins in the North Pole. Iceland's domain, for example, works very well and is of great importance to the northern international rescue center. There could be an international helicopter unit, and it must be carried out in a very progressive manner. In the U.S. Marshal's report. Secretary of State reports that among the most urgent solutions of the international community, Member States of the United Nations Climate Convention will complete a new contract planned for 2020. As noted, Member States agreed to form a legalized future meeting on climate issues in 2020 and replaced the Kyoto Protocol on greenhouse gas emissions and aim for signing a contract for a national conference in Paris in December 2. The primary objective is to maintain a global temperature rise below 2°C. Governments shall aim to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and send their plans to the UN Climate Convention office during the first part of this year. All countries need to accept commitment limits to emissions but vary according to their circumstances. The projection is that all countries will set targets for emissions in accordance with the new agreement that will apply in 2020, the largest focus on rapidly developing countries that have not so far set goals, as well as some of the largest industrialities. At the same time as we discuss a new agreement, we will also discuss how to further limit greenhouse gas emissions to 2020. A respectable president. Iceland can be in a key position by working on eco-efficient energy exchanges when it comes to transport in this country. There may be sufficient green fuels for the future ice fleet of Icelanders. I believe that Iceland and I are expected to create a comprehensive strategy that will be used by governments to continue working progressively at the level of environmental energy exchange for transport in this country, to aim for the switch from conventional fossil fuels and to go to other energy sources for cars and other transport devices, and for a set time frame to be set up in this relationship. A respectable president. Finally, I'd like to kill only on a major series of cases discussed in the report, Iceland's National Security. It shows that a panel committee working on the basis of a 2011 synoptic resolution returned in February 2014 their proposal to shape national security policy to the minister of foreign affairs. This was a turning point in which this was the first time from a republican institution, where a progressive step was taken toward a universal national security policy. A report by the secretary of state shows that national security issues are very high on the issue of national security. We picture ourselves, and we can argue with good reason that if there was a conflict in the world in the near future, the national networks and computers would be very important. Thus, Internet security is an urgent national security issue for us Icelanders and one of the most important things in our time. It is clear that we need a highly developed and clear policy in this series of issues. So I am so delighted to learn that I have cooperated with the Norwegians in this area, who are very close to the Internet security department.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u73	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir In many areas, the Elín Hirst for a fine talk that killed many people and shows that it is an idealist. I was particularly interested in the portion of her talk on climate change, and I would have liked to have time to review them in my earlier talk today. I agree with her about the importance of setting up a security center here, and that was just one of the things that made me feel disappointed in my speech. I believe that in this process, two years from government or elected period, at least the government's possession should cross it and see what you can mean in the hatch, what they've done already. And one of the things I was really sorry about is that there seems to be nothing going on in that case, at least it's not reported in the report except what one man works in the DLC. But I hope the discussion is at least the highest. A minister's motive for acting out of control in that legal group. What I wanted to ask you. A senator, because I felt that she handled all the major groups except one, and I apologize to her if it has passed me by, which is the case of evolution. I'd like to get some attitude. A senator for them. Me, like a whisk. A senator, has been very at odds with the way the government handles them. Iceland is one of the richest countries around us today, and it turned out last week that next year we will be making national production over what we were in 2007, though it was the year of our life. At the same time, though, we are still cutting down or keeping seawater away from our initial surgery. What do you think? A senator about that? What should a country like Iceland do in this situation, and ask her to think of the example of the maintenance government in Britain, which was given during the crisis? How does she feel about their plan? Ministers intending to put down the development community?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u74	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator is very much interested in the inquiry, and I really appreciate the beautiful words he made to me. Clearly, it is. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Aphrodinsson has a good news expert, as we call it in that business, because we've just had a conversation about evolution, which is the common interests of both of us. We've discovered that we're not in the same place in politics. This is how I have appealed to my opinion, so I can make it clearer in this sermon that I feel that it is our moral obligation to participate in the development of the scale that we are worthy of one of the richest nations of the world. I don't think we're supposed to be submers of the nations we compare ourselves to in this regard. I've also thought very carefully how to influence that policy in Iceland. I've got a seat. A foreign press committee where I will try to do well in achieving this goal. I feel that this is something that really doesn't have to be wrapped up in a land and a rich nation where there is great prosperity today. Thank you. A senator's question, and he wants to emphasize my interest in this subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u75	Mr. President. These were some of the clear answers I thank you for. A senator for the record. You might say that my second question was missing, but I'm not going to follow it. It's enough for me to hear a decision. A senator to the jury, I appreciate it. I would judge her as an honest conservative of the best kind. I often fall into the danger of judging independence from their view of evolution because it is often difficult to shape and do so with a generous mind. But I thought it was impressive by the dog. A senator saying that we should not follow the boats of the nations we usually compare with and would allow me to say that she felt that we should be lying somewhere between Ireland and the Northerns, at least by permission of a president. It's just very good.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u76	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Elín we have Hirst, a good talk was made available, and as we have seen, it was featured in many places. I know that's what I'm talking about. A senator sees it very well, is also creative, and looks to the future. So I want to ask you why. A senator who believes that the role of Iceland will be in dealing with the protection and use of the north. Now, of course, it is so, as we know, that men look very hard at the area and the opening that is going to be there, and I want to hear what vision was. A senator has it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u77	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Valgerður's Gunnarsdóttir's choice was a great thing for the inquiry. As I mentioned in my speech, there are a great change in our environment in terms of climate change. In my speech, I addressed only that I believe that Icelanders should take on the lead in this matter. I have some ideas about that. One of the things I would like to work on is what I spoke about in my talk, i.e. total energy exchange in Iceland, where we were going to replace fossil fuels for ecological energy. This could be done in a sustainable way by taking advantage of our own resources, and thus we could market ourselves and take full lead in climate change, not just here in the north, but in the world. I believe if this case is to be handled systematically, this may not be so much of a future mouse we're talking about. I think we should start right away with eco-friendly energy exchanges, as I would like to call them, and I think this is going to be a benefit to us Icelanders, not just globally, because we have to think like people of the world, not just Icelanders, we are people of the world, we have to think of where we can help so that we don't destroy the living conditions on earth. We can save ourselves an enormous amount of currency by doing this, and we can make ourselves very outstanding, for example, for tourists to come to a land that was so green.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u78	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator is eager to know the answer. It involved a considerable deal of climate, which, of course, is of great importance to all the nations of the world. From the days of youth on, the one present has given birth to certain concerns, and I like to hear what is happening here. Senator. I was going to pray. A senator coming in to something else I know she's taken up her arms and she's interested, and there's computers. What must we do to be in a position to deal with this if we are under intense attack here?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u79	A respectable president. I thank you again. A senator for good questions. It happened that at the scene of the National Council, the scene of the group we were facing was the case. A senator belonging to us. We were allowed to visit Noreg's Internet safety center near Lillehammer last year. As a citizen in this country and a politician, I may have come to realize what we need to be alert about the dragnet and its security. As noted in this presentation, Norwegians place tremendous emphasis on these issues and put forth a lot of money and have gained great knowledge of this subject. They watch the Internet security issues in that base all year round, 24 hours a day, and they do not provide because there are many attempts every day to break into important computer systems in Norway to steal valuables and information or simply to cause harm. As I mentioned in my talk earlier, it may be reasoned very well that if there were any conflict in the world in the near future, national networks and computers would be extremely important. I'm sorry, though, that even though I would like to answer that question, I can't.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u80	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Secretary of state for his report. Foreign affairs and the implementation of our policy in that category are of utmost importance in a world in which international communication is increasing and that is being reduced. We are indeed an island, but we cannot do so in foreign affairs. What happens in faraway parts of the world is a direct influence of the region, sometimes a direct influence, as I said before, sometimes indirect. Sadly, the importance of foreign service is often not understood. It has been cut down in recent years, but it is now long overdue. The Icelandic people especially need to be isolated internationally in 2015. Our voice needs to be heard as far as possible. So I have rejoiced to have the highest ambition. The minister of state has shown himself in his case, he has supported a number of fine subjects for progress. There are two points in the report at the top. Secretary of state I'd like to call attention to, Ukraine and Syria. The Ukraine conflict has been in focus for some time. It is now a year since Russia incorporated the Monsters. During the last week of a TV interview, President Pútín of Russia admitted that it had been well prepared for an operation and that he had been willing to go all the way to implement these plans. And this is not all because there is evidence of Russia's involvement in the eastern regions of Ukraine, Donetsk and Luhansk. I welcome the firm stand as the highest. The minister of foreign affairs has taken up this matter, which is not isolated from Ukraine. What has happened there can easily spread to other European countries. I have personally talked to several members of the Baltic States, as well as to Georgia and Finland, who are deeply concerned about the development of the matter and their reasoning: If the Russians get away with what they're doing in Ukraine, they won't stop, we'll be next on the program. So it is not possible to pass on the important matter of Ukraine. Foreign Minister has declared political support for Ukraine on both two - side meetings and international meetings, including in September and in December at the General Assembly of the United Nations. That's fine. The conflict in eastern Ukraine between the government's forces and the rebels, who have far - reaching Russian support, has resulted in the death of some six thousand people. The destruction of manpower is massive, and the economy is ruined, as most of the country's largest mines are located in the eastern part. Thousands are on the stage in Ukraine because of the conflicts. The problem of Ukraine can be said to be threefold. The land is at war that is destroying all its interiors. The army is accustomed to fighting rebels who have the support of one of the most powerful armies in the world. The Ukrainians have told me that military living is old and young. Such a conflict can only end in one way. The Ukrainian Army armory is old and gone. On the one hand, there has been an economic collapse in Ukraine that is closely related to the conflict in the eastern part of the world. The economic situation has always been fragile, and today it has collapsed with disastrous consequences for the nation, while some 40 million people live in the country. Third, the corruption endemic in Ukraine makes the country one of the most corrupt countries in the world. That corruption includes the highest law of society and is one of the greatest Poroshenko of President Poroshenko to fight against it. Recently, a law in Ukraine made it easier for officials who become guilty of corruption. The fight against corruption is just beginning, a long and difficult situation in a country that knows nothing but corrupt officials. The European Union has declared support for governments in Ukraine. Support has so far been a major factor in Russia's financial support and support. Such support is fine as far as it goes, but it is not enough. It must go even further, we simply cannot sit by and see that international laws are broken every day in Ukraine. These issues have been adopted in the Council of Europe, which is primarily about human rights and democracy in Member States. Both Ukraine and Russia may be involved in the Council of Europe. A year ago, Russia was temporarily deprived of votes for one year, as well as limited participation in committees. That restriction was limited to one year, as I said, and was to be published in January. Many felt that it was the right to return the Russian Council to the Council of Europe in January, and they reasoned that it was necessary to continue our discussion with them. However, it has been clear that the Russians have a limited interest in discussions about the situation in the Crimea or Ukraine. Thus, it was decided at a meeting of the European Council in January to extend a set set of rules that limit Russia's right to attend a meeting and vote. I welcome that decision. The European Council, which teaches itself to be human rights and democracy, can never accept what has happened in Ukraine, let alone the member society of the Council is doing something about it. The campaign in Syria has also been focused on over the past year. In fact, the conflicts there have lasted for four years. Some 200 thousand have died, 3 million have fled the country, and some 7 million are on the move within the country. After the beginning of the conflict in Syria, President Assad was severely criticized by the international community. The criticism became even louder after the government was found to have used chemical weapons against its own citizens. Over a year ago, an IIS organization began to get involved for serious combat in Syria. It was then that the most important criticism of Assad was made in the West, and suddenly another enemy had been found even worse than the first. Thus, political discussions and media talk often become strange and almost embarrassing. The situation in Syria is shocking. The ISIS organization is nothing more than a terrorist organization that has endured terrible things, much like the government army. It's absolutely necessary to eliminate the organization as soon as possible. To date, Western nations have wanted to get too involved in the affairs of Syria except by air warfare. Such actions can be effective only in the long run. Most, then, indicate that the conflict in Syria continues for the next few years, and the sufferers are the common citizens of the land. Refugees are streaming from the country to neighboring countries and as far as the West. So far, only one European country has fully opened its arms to the refugees of Syria, and that is Sweden. They have opened their land to all the Syrians who want to come there as refugees. Tens of thousands of Syrians have come to know this invitation. Much concern exists in the Western world because of the many young people who go to Syria to support the various rebellious forces that fight there. That discussion has not gone very high in this country, but it might be right for it to start in real life. According to the European Council meeting of the past day, for example, some 70 Norwegians have crossed over to Syria, most to fight at the side of the ISIS. About 20 of them have died in the struggle. Even more have left Sweden and Denmark. Is it impossible for Iceland to do the same? Not at all. So it is time for us to consider how we should react. Through the United States, over 60 countries, including all Member States of the Atlantic Community and the European Union and 10 Arab states, have declared support for the fight against ISIS. The first meeting of these countries was held in Brussels at the end of the year. The foreign minister attended the meeting and announced that Iceland would contribute by supporting disaster and humanitarian assistance to the civilian population of Syria through the United Nations organization. That's fine. We have to do better than that. The situation in Syria is such that no one can look away.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u81	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a good speech. I see that it is a great loss for us who are members of the Foreign Affairs Committee not to have it among us. I would like to ask him specifically on one particular point regarding the Council of Europe. It turned out that he is a great supporters of Russia's continued eviction. I would like to ask him: " Under what circumstances would he feel it would be right to let them back into the Council of Europe? Hv. A senator made the situation in Syria a subject, and it is naturally very complex. It shows that the Irish have been fighting, at least in the diplomatic and political fields, with the United States and the Americans, have been dealing with President Assad and his team. But then suddenly we see that the Iranian revolutionary has come thousands of times to Syria to fight ISIS. President Assad is fighting ISIS, and the Americans are fighting ISIS. Would you conclude, then, that we had entered the peculiar position that Iran, America, and President Assad had become allies? Because of what? A senator would be pleased to have his view of these matters. The question, however, is: A senator that it is right for the West, individual lands, or alliances to go beyond letting air force stop. A senator said that unless he was in a very long time period of time, he did not succeed?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u82	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson for these questions. With regard to the Council of Europe and Russia, I believe that the Russians - and most of the people I know who have spoken to in the Council of Europe - have to show much greater colour than they have done so far in Ukraine. They need to show that they are willing to contribute in order to make peace in that country. A agreement has been made in Minsk regarding Ukraine, whether or not it will be revealed. They have had a very clear view of the Monsters they have not wanted to compromise. If this is their position, I believe the Russians have very little business in the Council of Europe, which is a advice that has to do with human rights and democracy in Member States. Of ISIS in Syria and Iraq, it is certainly very complex. Whether America and other nations in the area can be seen as allies in this, I think there's a bit of a bed of interpretation, we can't do that. It is true, however, that there are many sides fighting ISIS, Americans including and more countries in this area. I don't think it's possible to think of any allies in this war other than that they're dealing with a common enemy, the ISIS. Should this battle go further? I think there's a lot of ways to go further. I don't mean to say that they're supposed to take an army in there, but I think there's good reason to consider, among other things, the ISIS funding, how to cut funding for this organization. It is clear that they are being funded, not only in the land of Syria and Iraq, but also in the international community.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u83	Mr. President. It would be nice to have further explanations as to who they are. A senator is talking about. Is he referring to the Saudi Arabia, which, at least, is a close ally of the United States, who is thus supporting ISIS that Americans see as one of their chief enemies? In case of a moment. A senator believes that I would be happy to discuss that question because I am eager to learn. The question of when to let Russians back into the Council of Europe is related to the use of commercial pressure. These are related matters. One of the things I've been amazed at in this discussion that's exposed to commercial pressure against the Russians is this: In view of the delicateness of a device that can strike in both directions, I think it's always possible to use commercial pressure unless the people have already defined in what circumstances to convert it. Just as I thought it would be right for the Council of Europe to dismiss the Russians temporarily or permanently, to prepare and sign when the situation had developed so that they could be reassigned. Hv. A senator says, taking them into account his surroundings in the Council of Europe: when they show color. Well, it's a pretty hairy, stretchy concept, and it's hard to appreciate. But at a international level, I don't mind using commercial pressure when nations break what we call fundamental laws. But I've been asking for that on the State Department, maybe here at the council, I think, at least I've asked the highest. Foreign Minister - just as I have questioned the minister of foreign affairs of the nations and the non - national leaders in the area where I sit before the Council - about the same thing. And the answers are very vague. I feel a little uncomfortable, and no one knows where to raise them. Is it necessary that they get out of Crime, can it be Crime? Is the requirement for them to show just color? I think it's the answer for most people, but it's very difficult to keep out foreign policy, much less for major countries, if that's the reference, which cannot be defined. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u84	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this. Whether Saudi Arabs are financing ISIS - I just have no idea. Of course, a man has heard of it in the news reports and other sources, but whether money comes to ISIS from Saudi Arabia, I have no idea as much as anyone in this room. These are mere thoughts that can't even be said about. In fact, in regard to commercial pressure and Russia, I have felt that business pressure is not even the right way to get to Russia. I don't think there's a lot of business pressure when it comes to a nation like Russia, a nation like that one, because Pútín has often said that if they want to punish the Russians in any way, business pressure may not be the right way. I think he's right, I think there's other ways to get out than business pressure to influence Pútín's attitude toward Ukraine. Of course, this is a matter that will take centuries back, and the Russians will always view Ukraine as part of their country, no matter what anyone says. But this is the way the Western countries have chosen to go. When to create the situation, when to reinstate Russia into the Council of Europe - I agree. A senator's opinion that this is very relative, that there will always be an assessment of the occasion. You can never write down exactly what it takes to do, it just isn't possible. In accordance with the nature of the case, when is the greater part viewed as fulfilling this requirement?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u85	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for the detailed report he has issued for the council. Of course, in ten minutes it will not be discussed all the factors it will address. I'll give you a few. First, I'd like to name Palestine. I am pleased with the emphasis that is found in the report and at the top of my stand. Secretary of State and government against Palestine. I was pleased with the talk. Minister of the United Nations General Assembly, where he condemned Israel's march True, I criticize the term "controversy " in these parts. There were no debates in Nazi Germany, there were no debates in South Africa, and in these areas there is a militant nation, and it is a militaristic nation. But I'm celebrating it, and I'm agreeing with the highest. Minister that it is good that Palestina has now been taken into the International Court of Justice in Hague. That happened at the beginning of this year, and I agree with the highest. Secretary of state on this matter. The report has been critical because some cases had to be discussed in more detail. People have given me seawater, I mention human rights matters, they would have needed more careful coverage. We are the only people who do not have a regular presence in Strasbourg, the capital of Europe's human rights. A ambassador was called home in 2009 after the collapse, but the operation there has not been rebuilt and I would have thought it was a long time, especially in view of the importance of the government in other areas, and I mention the military alliance NATO. The report on NATO and of Iceland's conduct within the Community, where Icelanders have agreed with those who want to go the longest into the world's warfare. It is reported in the report that there has been a halt to an incursion in defense at a meeting of the Wales leaders in early autumn. Defense cuts were halted and further structure has been established in the NATO countries in the coming days. It's especially welcome. And the Icelanders promise, or government on our behalf, to increase the number of Icelanders who come to work on NATO's ways. How happy we are that there has been a speed promised or threatened by people, depending on how they want to view it, the half - century anniversary of NATO in Washington in 1999, and is part of a backup scheme that I have outlined many times during the council! V.E.G. A foreign minister has at times spoken of the threat that we are becoming closer to him. You can also move yourself closer to the threat. There I look at the progress of Iceland, Ukraine, who has not been put on the one thing to follow NATO in terms of and where an armyless nation is relatively few, for it is the most pitiable thing in the world to be an army alliance, to agree to send out other children and young people to war, except all such responsibility itself. It's got the highest. Not only did a minister follow NATO but also the European Union, who has calmed down under all years since the deposed exposé of a democratic president, Viktor Janukovitsj, in February 2014. These are facts. It was a democratic elected president who was removed by revolution. The chairman of the European State Department of State said earlier that it was a long time since the border had been changed in Europe under a gun grip, I think he put it that way. It's not that far from then, it's not that long ago because in the Crimea, a national anthem was held in 1991, with 81% of voters participating and more than 93% wanting an independent Crimea. And there were very powerful forces there, democratic forces among the people who wanted to join Russia. Then, in the election, after the election in 1992, the Crimean Congress declares the independence of the Crimeagans. This was to be confirmed only later this year, in August it was planned, by national law. And there was a threat from Kiev, from the field of war. This has been confirmed by the local president in the media. So there was the democratic will, and he never listens to the Western powers. This report presents little for the democratic will, a border is spoken at all times. It's something that Iceland doesn't do well. We were the first people to accept and accept the Baltic States because we had the experience of a colony ourselves and adopted in national terms to become an independent republic. Or will they accept this agreement with the world society that the current government order, regardless of the people's will, remains forever? Thus has been trodden in the Kurds, forbidden to speak their language. That was the case with Basque. Then we have civilized peoples, such as the British, who resolve matters in general elections. But that's what needs to be looked upon, I urge the Icelandic government to do it a democratic will on the Monsters before people start to bust themselves out. How is it that we hear no objection to the fact that the Kiev government under the arm of NATO and the Western powers screws for the payment of social security in the areas that are under the control of apartheid? This was also done in Palestine, the Israelites did this, the Islamic government, and this is disgusting. But there's not a word about this, there's no mention of that violation of human rights. I wanted to talk a lot, much more about this show, about this country, including. The monster that Krúsjoff gave to Ukraine in 1954, and it is now viewed as the Holy Scriptures. We should also look at ourselves, the Western powers. That's what the United States is supposed to do, and it's NATO's, and that in Iceland, before it's done as it has been done. Finally, the highest. President, I would like to comment on what is being said here on the International Business Agency and the international agreements being made. It is rightly noted that the above agreements were tax agreements, toll treaties primarily. However, it is correctly noted in the report that they are now involved in the use of marketism and services. What does that mean, what does this mean? They're talking about that, under these contracts, we're being committed, not just to reduce tolls, no, we're being committed to the markets of our communities, that's what they're doing. Then, too, the report explains how we are handing over power from courts to judicial decisions. It is discussed in the report, not in a critical manner. The only guide we get to see in the record exactly what that would be? That's the company's advantage. - That's the company's advantage. - But I'm asking you what about democracy, what about the people, what about the labor movement, whatever with a public organization that's been protesting these classified contracts that repeatedly have been tried. I'll mention the May agreements 1995,1998, the GATS treaties that have crossed after they've been informed and now TSA, which is being informed after the informants got into the book. I would have liked to discuss much, much more about all these matters, but I will come up with something in my second speech afterwards. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u86	Mr. President. V.E.G. Secretary of State is responding to the U.S. foreign policy. But just so I'm completely clear about this, that's why. paritaprevir Is Jónasson's reaction to the opinion that Russia is in full possession of the Crimea? It is important for the discussion to be clear. I also want to go inside. A senator only after his work in the Council of Europe. One down. A senator, Karl Garðarsson, has already described his position on temporarily dismissing the work of the council. A senator also described himself as a follower of the ban on Russian participation as being extended. Because of what? A senator named Ögmundur Jónasson also sits there, and I would like to ask him: " What does he think about it? Was he of the opinion that it would be okay to remove the Russians, or is there a serious disagreement in Iceland about how to deal with this problem? And for the sake of history, I recall that it wasn't the first time that the European Council of Iceland splits, that I didn't say anything but at least to the root of my stand for Russia.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u87	V.E.G. President. I never said that the Russians are in full right to put in Crime, I've never said that. I have written of the contrary, that this kind of weapon should not be attacked; I have condemned it, I have done it many times in my writing. But no one should, neither the Ukrainians nor the Western powers nor nor the NATOs who have sided with such authorities in Ukraine who have opposed a state or form of a relationship. Even in the Council of Europe, at the Council of Europe, a proposal was refused. This is to be the cause of this area and of this country and of this nation, just as Germans live with federal states, the United States does so, Canada does, and a number of other countries are associated with a state, e.g. Mexico. No, no, the European Union and, unfortunately, the European Parliament have taken their stand on these issues. Of course, the Russians are not to be expelled from the Council of Europe. The Council of Europe and the Council of Europe take the people against governments, 144 million Russians against their government. When Pussy Riot is going to take his right to the European Court of Human Rights in Strassburg, it is through the Council of Europe. We're taking these people out of court, that's what's happening, when we show them out there. And to hear the men rise, representatives of the nations that invaded Iraq at their time, speak as has been done in the Cold War in the past weeks and months during the Council of Europe, that is concern, I think. That's a lot of concern.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u88	Mr. President. I'm probably just so slow, but it took me a while to figure out what it was exactly as bad. A senator wanted to handle this. But he has answered both of the questions that I threw to him in a detailed way. But maybe. A senator explained a little more clearly to me because he is now the best human being to interpolate the core of a matter in short sentences and has two minutes: In what way would he want to bring this matter to its end? I wasn't completely aware of it, and yet I make it clear that I am one of the most diligent readers of his website where he regularly writes fistulas. How, though, does he want to adjust to peace and assemble forces in a way that allows a community to become without bloodshed?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u89	V.E.G. President. I have no more than any other man's solution, not at all. But it may be the approach that matters. Are we going to go down this way and have been set up in NATO, to strengthen our military strength, to arms, and to prepare for war? Is that the way we want to go? Or do we want to try to promote negotiations and conversation, such as at the Council of Europe? At the same time, Russia was being evicted from which the Communist Party was being banned. And just during the days when this was happening, this debate took place at the Council of Europe, we saw pictures of it when the president of the Communist Party - and there is no violent man, a man who had received millions of votes in elections, men may not be happy with everything he says, but he received millions of votes in elections - was beaten in the council of violence. And about this violence is very quiet in the Western world, thoroughly silent because we are entering a time that is far too close to us and we must not enter that time. When I see a report and I hear about a report like the one we have here in front of us with this uniform tone, I'll be laid off. I'm not carrying volleyball from the Russians. I never trust a man who was in charge of the Soviet Intelligence Agency in a oppressed country, East Germany. I'll never do that. But I don't want to be pulled out on the tracks of the Cold War again. You've been doing it, and it's the tone of this report.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u90	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Foreign Minister for the report covering a number of international and international issues, and I intend to use my time here to tap some of them. During the past weekend, Iceland suffered a deep depression that greatly harmed the construction of workers. At the same time, on the other side of the globe, a hurricane struck the small kingdom of Vanuatu, killed a lot of people, and nearly destroyed the community. Well, most buildings in this poor island state have just about 260 of you. ... theinhabited. The same can be said of roads, energy systems, and almost everything we believe to be the foundation of society. The fate of the Vanuatu people should be a thought - provoking concern to us Iceland not only because these are microspheres, only less than ours, but also also because these disasters are the result of climate change in which storms in this part of the world are both more frequent and more powerful. The Pacific Ocean has long predicted the first victims of warming, some of which will even pass away within a few years. That is why I feel that it is only natural to discuss and review these disasters in the discussion of a report at the highest level. Secretary of state. Vanuatu residents have requested help from the international community and have called for help in restoring their community after these calamities. And I think it's the highest. A government would do well to answer that call with financial contributions and would want to direct it to the highest level. Minister to consider it, and even, because of the supreme. Minister is not in the hall, for president of what? The Commission's opinion of this will be considered. However, more people than the people of Vanuatu need assistance from richer nations. As we discussed in a special discussion of early winter development, Iceland's contributions to development are low compared with other Norwegian nations. In 2014, Iceland's contribution to international development was about 0.21% of national income, and the proportion is estimated to be the same this year. However, if a Congress proposal for Iceland's international development during 2013-2016 was followed, Iceland's contribution next year should be about 0.35%. I feel that a sad political signal is just how small part of our nation income is. The government is fighting poverty and for the improved standard of living in the poorest countries in the world. The projects that the European Development Agency has been working on, e.g. In Malawi, I think they're excellent, but they need extra funding. In the world's poorest countries, developing teamwork is going on to help people to get self - help and to improve their standard of living is that I know the best way to ensure a peaceful world to the future. V.E.G. President. At the same time that funding for development can be increased, the U.S. government's plans are to increase contributions to NATO and increase the number of civil experts in military service. It is, in my opinion, a conflict of priorities. Then I would like to go to Ukraine only, but today the major issue of NATO is the very war in Ukraine, a war that is one of the most serious threats to peace and security in Europe that we have faced for a long time and that, if things are wrong, we might develop into a war between Russia and NATO, and then with the possible use of nuclear weapons. Jan Oberg, of the Swedish Peace Research Institute TFF, and one of the most respected specialists in the field of peace, has discussed the Ukraine debate, pointing out ways to solve the problem. He points out that today, all debaters sent to talk with men who have their background from armies, men being trained, and who build their cosmology on the grounds that arms power is a natural final resort in disputes. No party at the table has the experience and ability to compromise. We need reconciliation in this kind of controversy, not Rabshakeh. Oberg points out a simple but important step in building peace in Ukraine instead of in a war situation. His releases are: Let us stop trying to drag Ukraine into NATO. Let's let the Ukraine walk in the European Union or any business alliance with the Russians they can agree on. All members of the United Nations will withdraw their armed forces from East Ukrain but will replace the United Nations General Peace Guard, who cooperate with SE. Of course, the spears are especially on the Russians, which clearly support and conceal the separation. In addition, a new study of the United States Peace Organization shows that more of the Ukrainians do not want to lean closer to the European Union or Russia. However, what Jan Oberg suggests is that there will also be a peace process under the direction of experienced servers, which will lead to a national law that will be chosen between a wide variety of opportunities for future planning, from one state to a state of state. Great financial support was made up of Russia and the European Union are being restored to the collapse of Ukraine's economy. NATO transports its forces from six Member States in Eastern Europe and returns to the spirit in connection with NATO and Russia's agreement on mutual communication since 1997. And most important, in all this process, there will be an effort to consult free groups of associates, individuals, and movements guided by peaceful solutions, not just by hawks and warmongers. With these solutions for our objective, we should achieve peace and avoid a major war. Of course, this fundamental point is also valid in other areas of conflict, such as Iraq and Syria, where brutal civil war rages with untold human suffering, as well as in the present state of Libia, especially because of the tremendous failure of NATO's activities, which few or no defend today. V.E.G. President. Iceland is, and I'm just about to hope it's gonna be a warless country. So I would like to use this opportunity in a discussion about the foreign minister's report to encourage the highest power. A minister to study the theories and lawsuits of peaceful compromises because I believe in the highest degree. A minister in his heart is at peace, and he wants to add his weight to the scales to promote a peaceful world, and speak to such international solutions instead of binding his religion to military solutions.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u91	V.E.G. President. There are some comments I would like to make with a case at the same time. paritaprevir Steinunn Þóra of Árnadóttir, especially about Ukraine's issues and related issues. I must say that I do not share the viewpoints that I felt could be cited in her quotations in the words of a Swedish scholar in the matter of peace that NATO was trying to draw Ukraine to him. I think this is a misunderstanding because I think that considering NATO's policy in these matters, it can be seen that NATO has not done anything to try to draw Ukraine into him. Ukraine has not sought membership in NATO, and NATO has not yet sought to be a member of Ukraine. For example, there is a somewhat different situation in another neighboring country of Russia, Georgia, where officials, both existing governments, and those who once ruled, had very strong requests to NATO for membership. That's not the situation in Ukraine, so I think that would draw conclusions about this situation is based on a misunderstanding. Also, NATO is not a party to anything that is going on in Ukraine or to anyone else in that regard. The European Union has sent representatives to meetings and the United States and others have sent representatives to meetings. The European Union of Safety and Cooperation has done so, but NATO has not been involved in any of the events that take place there. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u92	V.E.G. President. Yeah, it's pretty clear that me and him. paritaprevir A Birgir Ármannsson farm differs greatly, having a very different view of what is going on in Ukraine and in the Crimea. I'm worried about what's going on here because there's going to be an increase in the growth of the growth between Russia and NATO and in this area. I'm worried that this will lead us into a new era with a new arms race. NATURA has been gaining Russia with troops all around Russia, thus changing the situation in international affairs since what was here only after the Cold War ended. I'm worried that this will lead to riveration and it needs both parties, i.e. Both Russians, as well as NATO, take steps to back up. It is not only possible to place all responsibility on one person but also to consider how we can get rid of the situation in which we have come. I don't know why. A senator shares concerns with me that we are moving toward an increase in international tension and that they are not only in the Middle East but also in Europe and here on the edge of us, which is exactly reflected in Ukraine. I don't know if we would agree that it's a matter of concern.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u93	V.E.G. President. I think we're gonna do what. A senator would agree that there is a great cloud of storms, and the situation is very delicate. All human efforts must be in an effort to promote conversation and communication with one another, with the view that disagreements can be resolved in a peaceful manner. I find it hard to imagine, and I don't really think it would be too ambiguous to say that the reaction to the situation to which it is now to be, as mentioned here, is that NATO draws e.g. Groups from the six member countries of NATO bordering Russia Why don't we go to the Baltics, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, where people are really terrified of the threat they're facing from Russia and say, "We're not going to help you, you see, if anything comes up, we'll just send out men for talks. If Russian soldiers cross the border or something like that, do we send men to try and talk them into it? Unfortunately, the situation is not like that. The reason that the forces of NATO are increasingly present, e.g. In the Baltic countries, they have asked for this because they believe their safety is threatened. They are burned from the past in this regard, and they say, "If there is a conflict, we cannot stand alone. ' Therefore, we approach our friends and allies and ask them to help us. That's exactly the way it is. It is not that NATO sought to send a team there. This has been done on a far smaller scale than these countries, the Baltic countries, Poland, and other countries have requested for years. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u94	V.E.G. President. Yeah, at what. I guess a senator will soon agree on how we're going to solve the big things in the world and clearly approach things from different perspectives, I think I have to say different basics. For example, I don't necessarily think that the directors and leaders of the Baltic States will first look to peaceful solutions. They might as well be in the group that jumps on the bus first to look at old defense or military solutions, which I think exactly we need to get out of. All the nations of the world need to get out of the phase first to take up arms when problems indeed exist in the world are solved. Somewhere you need to start in order to change from the world's journey today. And I think the only way is for someone to back up. If it were up to me, we wouldn't be partners in NATO, but we are sure, and that's why I think it's normal that we try to use that site while we're there to speak in order to speak out rather that we withdraw, that NATO no longer be an aggressive military alliance, and instead look to how it will support peaceful action. That, of course, means a transformation of the alliance, but I think we need, if we want to live on this planet something continued, radical changes in our thinking and that's a peace policy we need to be guided. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u95	A respectable president. We're here to discuss a foreign secretary's report on foreign and international matters. The 104 - page report covers a wide range of pages. The points I would like to discuss are related to Iceland's foreign trade, the opening of new markets in the European Economic Area, and several other aspects. I want to use this opportunity to thank the highest. Foreign Ministers for his work and the fine staff and districts who work hard to protect Iceland's interests in foreign fields and a number of litigation classes. As noted in the report published by Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson. The minister of state has handed over various grasses and the Ministry and his staff have very different litigations. Iceland is a small country that is very much counting on access to foreign markets and import rates and exports are much higher in us than in big countries. Thus, international services play a vital role for the Icelandic economy. Nevertheless, the Ministry of State has limited financial resources and limited resources, so the emphasis must be very rigid. First of all, civil and economic services and support for developing countries must be high. I believe that such emphasis on foreign affairs can promote good relations. We would like to protect the progress that has been achieved in building business with our neighboring countries, and especially with countries in the European Economic Area, now 72% of our export, and much of our import is coming from there. As reported in the report, Iceland has made 69 free trade contracts or free trade contracts that cover 69 countries, including, of course, the European Union and EFTA. I think it may still be asked that where the limited energy of foreign service is best spent, how to set priorities. Is it important now that we expand our business with the EU, or is there reason to direct the requirements to expand and expand Iceland's business with other regions, such as the United States, Canada, and Brazil? For example, our business with the United States is less than 5% of our export and Canada less than 1%, but it is still very powerful and large markets and, in fact, is not a major obstacle to Iceland's business on this market. The agreement has been reformed by Canada, and I understand customs in themselves are not the problem of importing our product into the United States. For example, in the coming decade, it is predicted that in these countries there will be a more healthy economy than in the markets of the EU. The dollar has already gained 30% to EUR in 12 months, and the Icelandic export company must look to a higher export price there in the near future. I trust that foreign service will bring about changes and will focus on that. Since 72% of our export is in the EU, I think it is necessary to discuss a little more closely the problems and uncertainties surrounding the coalition. These problems are pretty serious and do not provide the end of them. It's also a concern for Iceland, but as noted in the reports in the World Bank, uncertainty in the European Union is a threat to Iceland's economic benefits. The problem appears to be too strong a currency for some Member States of the currency union. First after the euro recording, these countries received the same growth rate that hit the German economy. The result of low interest was huge loans and debts in those lands. And then, when the collapse was inevitable, those countries were no longer in line to collapse. Then they need the other choice, i.e. long and painful internal gang damage where pay is reduced, of course first for state employees and low-payers, and then after the notice, of course, first for state employees, privatizing on the wood of a fire sale. Added to that are commercial and capital flights. A financial escape from private European states in the Member States of the Cities usually ends with that the state's funds have to be held responsible so that the savings bank of the euro feels that it is safe to lend these private funds. If a government fund fails to accept such responsibility, a deposit, a bank collapse, and the economy will stop. That is why governments in these countries always choose to take responsibility for this bank, perhaps at the root of their dissatisfaction. Greek voters have been allowed to watch rich people rescue their possessions from the euro while ordinary employees are left behind on reduced wages or even jobless. In Greece, 26% of the people are looking for work, but they do not find it, and even more have just given up on it and are not in that number. This is just the number of people who are looking for work, 26%. For young people, 51% are looking for a job. Real estates have fallen at risk, but the debts of them in the euro have not been lost. The wealth of Greece has become far more debtable than it was when the Three - Eye Rescues began. The money that the trinket has lent to Greek banks has been used to creditors to banks and rich people in Greece who have escaped with their money and are left for billions of dollars each month, but earners and taxpayers are left in a terrible state. Who is responsible for this? Is it common people in Greece who believed the story and the adventure that the record would bring long - awaited stability, low growth, and improved standard of living? Is it a Greek ruler who sought involvement in a currency alliance that was too strong to favor the Greek wealthy? After the euro brought its interest, who made the most of the loans? Was it Greek for the common people? Hardly. Who Is Responsible? Is it European leaders who approved the entry of Greece into the currency alliance against better awareness and despite the loud warnings of all experts? As a result of all of this, it seems that there is now a cold war between Greece and Germany, where the bridges cross over. There is talk of unsolved war damages. Now, most seriously, the Greeks are going to break out of the mint layer or otherwise stay there and take the silent action they are told to do. The Greek democracy will then be replaced by the government of Brussels. At present, there seems to be no easy solution in view of the currency problem. The world's inventions of the press compete to write articles on whether the relationship will end or change into the European Union, but few seem to feel that it can continue in the same form. All of this can have consequences for us here in Iceland. Perhaps the most important lesson for us is that we learn from what has happened there. We've been seriously wondering if the euro and access to the European currency union could be a solution to Iceland's problems. I think these illustrations from the euro's currency alliance show us that this is not likely. But I'm not going to say anything more about the European Union's problem. It must be our mutual hope that there will be a good way to resolve the problems, but I can't quite see how it's going to work. In the meantime, I suggest that the Icelandic Foreign Service consider whether it is not important to focus on less problems markets and reduce the exposure of the European economy to potential tragedy in the EU.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u96	A respectable president. We're discussing the foreign affairs that are of utmost importance, and hopefully they'll be a subject for the future of objective and illuminating in Iceland. It's been a little missing, as everyone knows, so the discussion often begins in the most peculiar circles. When it comes to foreign affairs, it can be said that on the whole, we are living in a world that is more difficult to see than we have. We see a battle in Eastern Europe that has not been seen for a long time, with weapons such as tanks and artillery. It has been the same since World War II when there was a battle in Kursk and there is no end. Similarly, we see countries such as North Korea and Iran, who thus live in government, stressing that humans cannot help but worry about it, especially in view of the fact that the countries have or have developed nuclear weapons. The period of stability that has existed after the end of the Cold War is not as stable as it has been. There is something that we need to pay particular attention to our general safety and security. We Icelanders have been so fortunate that we have not fought war with other nations, we have been free of terrorism, and we have all been very peaceful here. But none of that is totally safe and it's better to have hung below. Therefore, our cooperation in NATO is as important today as it is to hope that we will have a blessing to be careful when it comes to these important matters. A respectable president. There has been a lot of discussions about the European Union for a reason, and I assure you that Iceland and I have a very special situation when discussing the European Union. It has been seriously claimed that there is no doubt about what is involved in being in the European Union, of course the perfect Sir. There are 28 countries in the European Union, which are at the foundation of a customs alliance, and there are no other people than Iceland who have applied for membership to see what it means to be in the relationship. Reports have been published that include interviews with the most relevant men. Scholars believe that it is normal to witness in conversation with someone they know, whether it is politicians or scholars. I'm full of interviews, I've been a decade in international cooperation, the last few years as chairman of the EFTA Committee and the chairman of the Council Committee that cooperates with the European Union, that I've never met a local official or a foreign politician who thinks there's no doubt about what it means to be in the European Union. Why am I talking about this? Because while men have such delusions that I have called the Union's party game, the discussion will become extremely unconvinced. It is far better for those who wish to walk in the European Union to be clear and reasonable. I've found one or two. A senator. paritaprevir Róbert Marshallur, who likes to know how he likes to walk in the European Union. He believes Iceland is a better city in the European Union, and you can talk to him about it. Senator on the case. Others are not on the rosary when it comes to this matter while they claim it's all so vague. We have published more reports, now recently at the World Health Organization and also the Economic Institute, which are a good basis for a more objective discussion if you want it. On the other hand, if people constantly want to talk about it, the discussion will be as in the past few days as well as in recent weeks and losss; unmarked, unconcerned, and not based on facts. I can totally agree that the government I firmly support has made a mistake on the case, and I will take it as an example. Minister of state, who has been very busy talking to what. State Department, should've done that before he took the letter, I think it's obvious. We are to make it a rule to have a practice that is acceptable to us. But it does not alter the nature of the matter. It is about whether we want to walk in the European Union or not. It is obvious that the European Union is not a more important matter. As a result, it is said to be only a question of business dealings with a non-human state relationship. Every man must see it. What if we were to make that journey, and the minister would finish the talk, which is primarily about adjusting to the European Union, they should sign and speak for such a contract? I once told a senator from Sweden what the situation was, this was the last term, that we were applying to see what was available. The Senator looked at me, the European Parliament, who was a great member of the Member States, and thought that Iceland should be involved in the European Union, saying: Wait, are you really not saying that nobody is talking about Iceland going into the European Union? Yeah, that's what I said. It's about the government members saying that they want to see what's available and that they want to see. He looked at me and said, "You can't do this to us. We spend billions of dollars and do all this work and other things, and you treat us like this. A respectable president. It's interesting to see now that we're at the highest. The minister of foreign affairs pointed to the obvious fact that this government does not have a more serious part to enter the European Union, how clearly the European Union is eager to bring us in. Men have spoken as if this were our last chance to walk in the European Union. But they obviously want to work hard to make Iceland work in the European Union. The reason is obvious: We are one of the countries that would pay with us in the European Union. Of course, several research has been done, older than that, on any subject of billions, and can be accessed by anyone with access to the Internet. Then, you can also examine the contributions made by individual countries, both by crowds and by what people receive, who are in the plus and who are in the minus, and the countries that we compare with that in accordance with the nature of the matter. Although we provide EU support through the EFTA Development Fund, we would have to pay much, much more if we joined the customs union. In the same way, it would be a great catch for the European Union if we went to the common marine and agricultural policy that meant that the control of the marine resources was transferred to Brussels, although, of course, it is the right thing to say about our nature, at least about our legal history, even though our populations would be under the common European government as humans know. To be fair, some members have been perturbing and one is Jón Sigurðsson, former head of the University of Bifrost. He wrote an excellent article in which he specified the so - called replacements. I don't understand why men don't look at what's behind it. I did so myself and encourage those who are interested in Europe to see exactly what was involved. It's not an exception. It's a rule of common policy, such as in marine soil and agriculture. There's a big difference, because if you're inside a common policy, no matter who it is, it can be changed by a greater proportion of the states. Although in some cases there is a refusal to do so in individual states, there is something paradoxing, and the requirement also for denial and loss of control over time. A respectable president. It is interesting to consider the European Union's disputes, the big controversy that, unfortunately, will not come at the time I have, Greece and possibly more countries and the financial ice, as well as the situation that came up in Britain. It is clear that David Cameron did not trust to contribute unchanged to the European Union for voters. [[The president calls.]] He wants to renegotiate it. [[The president calls.]] Of course, this will mean a changed position in Europe.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u97	Madam President. I have a lot to do with a talk. A senator to check out. I'm not gonna waste our time messing with the past or deal with any facts. We both know that, me and what. A senator, the European Union is under way. There are differing opinions, and there are conflicting opinions within his class. The question is, Why not resolve the issue once and for all? Hv. paritaprevir A Birgir's Ármannsson has pondered here, that I have been found, and entertained by his talks in the last days. But what surprised me and made me happy was at the height. The secretary of finance and economics, chairman of the Independence Party, said in the news yesterday, Station 2 said it didn't shut anything off. He put it this way: There is no door shut, and I am yet minded, and he said that the people should speak the thing. But he, like a dog. paritaprevir Gullified Þór Þórðarson, said that it is difficult to think of a government that is contrary to it to agreement. All right. But why don't we do one thing together, and I pray for a change. That's what a senator is for. Why not settle the matter in a national law order and arrange it so that the other would not be exposed to impossibles, i.e. For example, do we think of a variation to the synonym that now lies on the side of the government? For a deal, I'd be happy to look at it with what it was. At the same time as elections, a senator's vote. This would mean that the matter would be settled and no government would have to face the alleged impossibility. Then the outcome of such an election would likely be made by governments. Then this case would have been over once and for all.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u98	A respectable president. I have had the goal of trying to be consistent with myself. I understand people who have stopped understanding Icelandic politicians and even giving up on us politicians when you hear that the Union and the VG, who have accused the Independence Party of failing to live up to the proclamations of its chairman, insists that way is gone. Which was not the policy of Groups and VGs. In fact, they refused to go that way when it was offered at their last assembly. I voted them with the words and reasoning that I would do what I could to prevent Iceland from becoming a member of the European Union, and though it was contrary to my mind to go that way, I would not do it because I think Iceland's interests are much better off with the European Union. I did not, however, encourage the last government, do I not remember if there was anyone else who did what is not entitled to enter the European Union, who would likely want to complete that contract, to finish it, and to bring it to the people. The worst part is that we can't even agree on some methodology. We're still working on it. When it was introduced during the last term, we were told that it would take 18 months to complete the task. That's what we used to do. Ministers said. I thought that they would bring them in with the deal, and the people would vote for it, and they looked forward to it. I thought it would be very informative, because I'm talking about dealing with the facts, and it's very good to get the facts on the table. Why didn't it work out in 18 months? I was sitting down. From time to time, a foreign - language committee inquired about it. I didn't have any real reason why it didn't work out last time. I think it would be very informative to get that information. [[The president calls.]] Hv. A senator knows this matter better than anyone else.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u99	Madam President. We've been through that case many times, I can't do it in two minutes. I'm sorry if that's the case. A senator does not have the confidence to agree with the chairman of the Independence Party that the people should have access to the matter. Now I'm not referring to anything that the head of the Independence Party said in the past, he said this yesterday at Station 2. It seems that there are more than two. paritaprevir If this is not literally the case, the bodies of an Birgir Ármannsson who disagree with the chairman of the Independence Party. Birgir A Ármannsson's farm made a disagreement. You're right next door. A senator who back then was the administrative parties who were then under authority did not feel that it was proper to attend a national law to apply. The people believed that it was enough, and democracy guaranteed by allowing the nation to vote for the contract, then they would have everything on board and could choose about it. This is the same approach that was established in almost all countries that entered the European Union, but not all, some of them went in without national law. We have, like, whisk. A senator pointed out that there is a disagreement on the matter. Why not settle it in this way? Why not accept this extended reconciliation? We're going to make a deal with this. Well, that takes what. paritaprevir Gullless Þórðarson did not look at the grueling reality that he may become the rest of his reign, which I hope will be long, even beyond the government. Because it is apparent that the way people now think about leads only to the same; to the dislodging of the Independence Party. I do not wish it to be the Independence Party at all. I would much rather be able to settle matters so that everyone could enjoy it. You'll never know except what. A senator would someday, even from me, be called the most honored from this chair again.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u100	Yeah, I'll just have a little doubt about that. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson is deeply concerned about the future of the Independence Party and is losing sleep because some trouble might arise in our town. [[Very worried.]] But there is something else. The people must have access to the matter according to their nature. That's what it says. I felt that it was best for the groups that believe that Iceland should go to the European Union to tell about it. It should be an election, and if they are authorized to apply for involvement in the European Union, they should do so and bring in the agreement that the people vote for. But I have the dream that we will take a very serious discussion about the European Union. What is involved in being in the European Union? [[For example: You've never been able to do that.]] What I don't understand, Mr. Honorable President, why do you always see underneath the soles of members of the conglomerate who don't want to know you're members? Except one. There's one down. A member of the International Parliament, one of the 63, who has officially acknowledged the will of Iceland in the European Union. Now I'm not telling people what they should think, there are good people who want Iceland to do in the European Union, but we can't take this conversation unless we get to know it from the facts. It's just not possible. [[We need them on the table.]] This is exactly what people say you can't get the facts on the table unless you finish the deal. What do you think the deal is? Do you think he can fit in on A4? If a person cannot discuss what it means to be in the European Union, which is presented in these reports, how will he be able to do so because the contract of the Member States is as thick as the phone book? Do they think they can do anything better then? Of course, humans know exactly what it means to be in the European Union. And why don't those here want to look in the package for that discussion? Why not? Don't they dare?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u101	A respectable president. I'm going to take advantage of the limited time we have in previous discussions to discuss national security policies and especially national security issues. Today, in 2015, computers are more than they were last year, and they probably get bigger and bigger over time. People tend to believe that computer technology is always at a higher level, which is often the right thing to do with certain problems. In fact, it is constantly possible to develop some technology to do things that were thought to be extremely difficult, even impossible, in the past. This is especially true in regard to blame or thanking for the occurrences of artificial intelligence. One of the factors in information technology is security. People tend to think that now in 2015 the development of software security has grown, so must be, because technology is pushing so hard. In reality, however, the opposite is true. Computer security is getting worse, 2014 was the worst year of computer security in memory. Then there were very serious defects in all of the major decoding jumps, as they are called in very evil Icelandic, as well as all kinds of defects in a number of software that caused computer users much heartache, and rightly so. These matters are getting worse for several reasons. One is that software becomes more and more complex, so providing for all its possible abuse is much harder. Another factor that has changed is that the interests of this information race have changed considerably. In the old days, if it might be said, thestero-pusar was one person outside of town who wanted to prove that he could enter some system, more or less to boast about it to himself and possibly to his closest friends, possibly the universe under some kind of cover name. Today, however, we live in a world where computer technology is new in organized crime, as well as in international conflicts. Information technology has become a part of security and is an important factor. Now I want to point out two things in this relationship. There are two aspects of information at least when it comes to security. On the one hand, information technology is used for aggressive purposes and on the other hand, when people increase their defenses to software. Consider, for example, a phenomenon such as Stuxnet, which is an awesome software, one virus, probably created by Americans or Israel or both of them, or one of their very close associates, and you expect it. And Stuxnet is just an example of the development of information technology as a military tool. We're talking about viruses that are clearly made by an army, of the most brilliant information technicians found. They are used for a very clear, defined purpose, e.g. To destroy winds at a nuclear power plant in Iran, a very famous example. When computer security experts viewed this phenomenon, this virus, it was soon discovered that it was behind it. This is not something someone alone does in town, and even organized crime does not have the potential to develop. It takes a nation to develop such a highly developed virus. This is the part of military information technology, which uses information technology directly in warfare. The other side of the situation may be more relevant to Iceland, and it is trying to keep the infrastructure in the community safe enough, infrastructure such as electricity, communication, and, in fact, all that is useful to computer technology, anything that can be damaged in some way. We want security from software used for the infrastructure. But that's a very different question because the question is simply that - simply I say, it's a certain supercomputer - to make sure that the software is safe, well tested, and that there are feedback plans if something goes wrong. It's a very defensive situation. It's just a question of how we defend ourselves against some enemy, and of course we want to eliminate as many software defects as possible. When it comes to the military program I mentioned earlier, other interests are involved. When agencies such as NSA, CIA, Moscow, or similar, or any Russian, China, India, or whatever, intend to use military software, they are well suited to the fact that there are defects in very widespread software such as Windows, Outlook, Linux, Mac OS X, Django, Word Press and as most of the software in the most extensive use. It's convenient for them to know about his faults, and no one else is. These interests conflict with Iceland's defence interest in information technology. The information security defenses of Iceland must be that the least of these defects is because we're never going to war with information technology, we don't have any opportunity to do it, we don't have any interest in it. So there are conflicting interests. If we put ourselves in the place of a big country that stands in the middle of a non-war effort, let's say the United States, these interests go together. Such countries want to have faulty software all over the world so as to use their own security problems in a military or something like that, but they also want to have their infrastructure in order and safely with others. So it comes from this situation of information race and an information - security race in which people want to know as many of the faults as possible and want the enemy to know as little of them. This is really comparable to an arms race, unless it is based on information. What I want to do when it comes to the interests of Iceland in this particular case, we're no good at being on some kind of information agenda. Rather, we should concentrate on keeping the infrastructure in order, and according to this report and other reports as follows, the growth in these issues is seen in the end as this case is rapidly changing. Everything is already out - of - date, you know it in the computer. But our interests must be primarily that of being in cooperation with other nations, in my opinion especially other northern nations, who aim to ensure that these infrastructures are in order. And I would also like to warn of one thing that if we were to deal entirely with these problems with NATO or with similar large institutions, which include large states of the United States, such as the United States, who are in a non-political military organization, we are in great danger of losing these defenses, and it profits others that we are vulnerable. So when it comes to information technology, information security, we should look to nations with very similar interests. We simply do not have the same interests, and for example. The United States of America's information campaign, except to other big countries, but the United States has the advantage of being able to monitor Iceland as best and to know Iceland's weaknesses in order to be able to follow along here. We know that today is a time when the citizens of other countries will be observed by a state, whether they are acceptable or not, it is a trial. We need to be aware of this, and we must not be too naive to think that our closest associates in business and world matters do not necessarily share our information - based interests. I'd like to say that the northern countries have it, and likewise I'd like to point out that Iceland is a very small country, and the same rule applies to a small population of these languages and the small ones when it comes to warfare that we have no independent ability to defend ourselves against these threats. We must cooperate with other countries in my opinion if it's a good way to go, and that's why I specifically point to the Northern Nations. To a large extent, they benefit from making sure that the infrastructure is as safe as possible. A respectable president. Now I don't have much more time for this, so I'm going to leave here for now, confident that there will be continued growth in this category and that the seminar will be given enough money and sufficient attention to politicians. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u102	V.E.G. President. Hv. paritaprevir In this context of the international issues, the Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson entered an important field. Of course, there has been awareness of the dangers involved in online attacks of various kinds. People know the dangers of vandalism, the actions of organized criminal organizations, and even terrorist groups, and then, as well. A senator noted, the threat of a state's use of this technology to achieve goals that can be warlike. Although this may not have been directly related to warfare, even some Internet attacks have been attributed to individual countries in recent years. I know why. A senator well knows this area, so he wants to keep moving on from the point where he stood in his speech earlier on what practical action would be most desirable for us in the situation he described. He describes a certain form of suspicion toward some of our allies in the international political arts, but he speaks of increased cooperation with the North countries. [[The president calls.]] But if we were to look only at our organizations, our organization, where would we need to be considered? A senator's efforts to improve us in a way that benefited us? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u103	A respectable president. I appreciate the question. It's a two-way thing. First of all, it's like a cot. A senator entered, cooperation with other countries and particularly the North countries, not only with the North countries but especially with them. One thing we could do on our own without anyone else's access and should promote, and I think we'd be more interested in promoting the Internet security force of the post and communications agency, which will soon be heard in the public security department of the state police department. I don't think her project is clearly defined at the moment. However, between countries, there are differences to which software is commonly used. For example, the use of Linux servers and local Windows Network Servers is high. In other locations, humans may generally be using other systems. We use a lot of Word Press, which is a web visual system. Another software called Django is used extensively. It's going to be very fast between years. There's always competition for software. What this team should do in my opinion and should have as a headliner should have in mind some way monitoring it, talking with the industry and people on the Internet who use this software, what version is being used of this software, and then monitoring the updates and security reports that have to do with this software. On the contrary to what many people hold, safety defects are very common, and new defects are constantly developing, but they are fixed equally. The most important thing we could do is keep a close eye on this in a central place to inform those involved in using the software that has been updated to these and other defects, so that the main role of this team is to monitor what software is being used, how the situation of security on that software is being developed and presented and discussed by the industry and in the country of that country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u104	V.E.G. President. That's interesting. The suggestion as a man. A senator would be classed under the preemptive arrangement. I wondered twice in this relationship; on the one hand, how to improve communication or conversation between public members who have a role in this field and on the other hand, because it is clear that a lot of important systems in our community are in the hands of private people. There is also the need to consider safety factors regarding government communications, energy communication, banking, and so on. I wondered how he envisions that kind of communication. Then I would like to mention something else that might now be involved in a special discussion at the council sometime: How can I help you? A senator sees that we find a balance between following or responding to attacks in the system, whether for a criminal purpose or for a military purpose or what it is now, and as for what I know to do. A senator is very concerned about, i.e. the personal protection objective, that people's private life and personal resources be excluded when being monitored?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u105	A respectable president. That's a great question. You'd need more time to discuss this in an armhole. I'd like to answer the second question why. The senator's first concern is the basic prince, i.e. Personal protection against security. The question is not large when it comes to defending computer security infrastructure. This is, in fact, beneficial because computer security issues are not like security issues for terrorism or international conflicts or as well as the fact that such conflicts usually work in a general way, so freedom and security are strained. When it comes to strengthening access to information technology, this tension is not present because the methods used do not work out trying to find out who is trying to attack you. All you know is that there are tens of millions of people who never sleep and have endless coins and lots of clever men working. They're always attacking people, all the time, just always. And that's the reality you're working on when you work online, whether people realize it or not. Then we'll ask the previous question. A senator who deals with how to secure the information flow between his private and the Network Security Unit, or whatever the central phenomenon is. Now the largest members of Iceland, public members as private citizens, may wish to keep it okay. They want to be well informed, so I think that there would be good reason to believe that the interaction would be very good, that private partners would register themselves and make a simple list of the main general software they use, and let the Internet security team know: we're using this software, please let us know if anything happens, or if someone new and scary is found, or just a very mild defect in one of these software. Likewise, I can fully see that the Internet security team could have initiative control in this regard simply by simply asking, for example, large parties like Shimann or government agencies: What do you enjoy? Here's what we're watching. That conversation I think could totally happen without having to force one or no one to do anything. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u106	President. As other members of Parliament before me, I want to thank the minister of foreign affairs for the great report that lies in front of us. When I have mentioned the same report at previous meetings that I think I've always done, I have given special attention to referring to the civil service that is very important to us, and I sometimes felt that it was forgotten during the foreign - language discussion. I think that in recent times it was greatly improved, so I feel that the urgency and scope of the work being done there is very well understood. I'm going to spend most of my time, and maybe not necessarily fill in the nine minutes I have left to talk about the European policy. I don't think there's any doubt any more that this government is not going to continue its business talks, and I now believe that no one ever thought it was going to do it a week ago. However, this problem arose that the discussion had been terminated. I'm not going to get into it specifically. I'm going to talk about the EEA deal. No doubt about it, and I didn't seem to have any doubt about it over a year ago when a foreign minister proposed his European policy that one of the basic elements of our foreign policy was maintaining the EEA agreement. This policy was published to increase work on the contract, we would need to ensure that legislation was introduced here when it had been approved in the European Union, and we were also going to make more preparations for legislation in Brussels. None of this has been done, a respectable president. It was noted in the earlier discussions that no additional amount of money has been spent on these matters. Today, too, I had not realized earlier, that there has been some management committee over Europe. It seems that they are no longer quite confined to the Ministry of State. The former Ministry of State also pointed to it at a meeting in Iceland's University yesterday, or at least in the news, I heard an interview with the person who was on the news, that the European Union and the EEA Convention, a great deal because he's a living contract, had no place in the Icelandic Government. That's naturally a very serious, respectable president. On Tuesday, I met the European Commission, the joint members of the Parliament, which includes members of the EFTA, Norway, Liechtenstein, and Iceland. The Swiss sit there as guests and monitors, then members of the European Parliament and representatives of the Commission represent the Council of Ministers and the representative of the country's presiding committee. It's all over the stage and how it's going to run the EEA deal. Out of all the people who were there whether they were from the Commission or from the ESA, who are our party and who are to continue this contract, concern over how much longer this process will continue. A representative of the European Commission expressed great concern about this. The President of ESA, I think it's called president, but that office is now in the hands of the Norwegians, expressed great concern over slow moving into law the types taken over and said that there would be a lot of issues that the ESA would have to send to the court because the Norwegians and especially we understood, don't do us good enough to bring them in. This was just one of the things a person felt should be aware of in the European policy proposed by the minister of foreign law in March last year, but what has not been going on. Then you can associate this with a talk that you have. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson held earlier, stressing that the State Department of State and State Department of Foreign Services needed to be more concerned and to put more emphasis on what has so far been done with the United States, Canada, and other countries than those in the European Union. In fact, I felt that he might even argue that everything went so bad and was all over the backs of Europe, so it was a matter of his mind whether we did not put too much emphasis on Europe as well as too little cooperation with other countries. I find this sobering, and I wondered: " Is that question also in mind? The Minister of Foreign Affairs? In particular, because he has not done anything to cover the policy of the report, which was submitted by the year to be better involved in implementing the EEA Convention. We must not think it, more dignified President, that it is only okay for our party, the European Union, that we draw our feet in fulfilling what we are to do according to the agreement. That's not true at all. It's important to keep the contract and at this meeting that I was in, you know, you didn't have a payroom with that it causes concern to those working for the European Union and clearly causes this ESA, i.e. EFTA is a major concern. A respectable president. I also worry about it, and I think it's the highest. The minister of the foreign affairs must take no doubt about this. We know he doesn't want any business talks, that we know clearly, but does he want to stick with the EEA deal? Or is he on some other route?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u107	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A candidate for the subject and good talk can agree with much that was presented there. I think we need to be very alert when it comes to implementing the EEA contract. In order to monitor the EEA contracts at this time at the latest budget, there were about 40 million, if I recall correctly. True, I believe we're supposed to adopt Norway's ways, and we've had a presentation on how the Norwegian Council wins. I think it's very important that the council has a better focus, in bad Icelandic, on this. I'm worried that our organization at the council is not good enough. I believe we should have a special committee that would hold these matters in hand, i.e. The EEA Committee, which is a special Parliamentary Committee and a foreign committee, would then have something to do with foreign affairs. It's a matter of size that it has to be watched very well, and we don't always have it. Of course, this isn't just Iceland. The EU is involved in the problem, this great problem, out of the original language, due to what is called the English '-red losses' which has made it less competitive for the EU's competitiveness as they themselves would have been. They have never achieved the goals they have worked out regarding their competitiveness. This arrangement in the European Union is clearly against the problem, if we are trying to reach some kind of European states, but we have not developed the arrangement like this, therefore we have this peculiar European Parliament and we have the highest man who was elected in the last place but was not in the open, and no one knows who is, etc. [[The president calls.]] But I agree with what. Senator. We need to stay alert when it comes to the EEA deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u108	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator needs to examine how we are doing this during the council. During the last term, a change was made in how all EU types are treated at the council. I think there's something, so the senators don't quite want to figure out what the EEA deal is. The EEA contract is so that we can have some effect on the first figures. Then there's nothing at the council. It may be months or years before it enters the council. By nature, the EEA contract is so that the Council here cannot have a major impact on it. I think senators may be a little bit concerned about how much they can do, and therefore, the treatment is often greatly delayed during the council. A Norwegian senator said, at least I heard no better: when we get these EU types, just stamp them out. There is, in fact, a few things that we can affect, very few. But this is the difference between being in the European Union and being in the EEA. If you're in the European Union, you're affecting the legislation, you're in the rooms, you're making decisions, but when we're in the EEA, we're just a leader. There is a much greater exercise of sovereignty in the EEA than in the European Union. I don't even have to explain it to you. Senator. He knows, but he won't admit he knows. He does not want to admit how much he knows about the European Union. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u109	A respectable president. I agree with a lot of things that go by. A senator but is merely digesting whether I don't want to admit how much I know about the European Union. I have considered it very much, and I have been a frequent guest in the European Parliament, talking to many European Parliamenters, friends and acquaintances there, and I know pretty much how they develop. We have just this chance in the early stages that we haven't changed. We can also have informal relations or formal contact with the members of Congress. But the European Parliament, with all due respect, is a perfect joke. Even if we had five senators there, we wouldn't be about to turn it around in circles, it's just not like that. No one will believe you when you tell stories about why. European Parliament because it cannot be that Western countries have developed such an arrangement. The European Parliament can do nothing on its own, it is necessary to accept what comes from the Commission, and it is poorly defined who chooses the Commission. The European Union is a government dream. The power is very far away from the people, and it is not by chance that all polls show that the European Union is becoming increasingly unpopular in the European nations. It's obvious that this whole thing has to be cut up. If we were to walk in the European Union, we would need to take far more of what we do not want than we need now. But we can have an effect. I know it myself, because I have experience with it, that it's possible to be effective, but we'll have to work organizedly. But God forbids us to join the European Union. Although we had five senators of 755, or how many of them are in the European Parliament, even though they were good, though they were very strong. The senators Valgerður Bjarnadóttir and Össur Skarphéðinsson couldn't be held hostage in a fine assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u110	I am not interested in taking the European Parliament or any other council hostage. It's not the kind of work I'd like to do, to take someone hostage. [[Up front.]] I'd rather talk to people and have conversations with people so that they can talk, but they don't always talk about the same old thing years after year from this chair, like a dog. paritaprevir Guðlaugur Þórðarson does here, and you have to listen year after year. It's always the same mantra, where it's more and less fucked up. That's it. Clearly, we disagree. What I don't understand is that I get into arguing with what I'm talking about. A senator about something I'm not supposed to have to argue about. I'm thinking that if there's a meeting and I'm at the meeting there's a chance I can make a difference, but it's quite done, I have no effect if I'm walking, no. It's so simple. I don't have to argue with that. Senator, this is life. There's something else they say. They want to talk about late Europe, and that's exactly right. But sometimes I say, it's a 28 - state partnership, and it's only natural that it's gonna take a long time. It is only natural for people from 28 countries to spend a long time working together and working together. There's nothing wrong with that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u111	V.E.G. President. This time I am not going to get involved in an emotional debate about the European Union, its benefits, its flaws. That's why I'm asking for an answer to what's happened. paritaprevir Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir is what leads to our involvement in the European Economic Area and the European Economic Convention. I'd like to guess this here on the grounds of some kind of verbal exchange that took place before that, of course, in the council, that has a work plan for the management of the EEA or adjusted in recent years. The foundation of this was laid, 2007 or 2008, as I recall, in the prehuman existence of Bjarni son of Benediktsson of the Foreign Affairs Committee. This trend continued during the last terms. Today, too, we have been trying to improve our work ethic, sort of with the ambitious goal of improving both efficiency, while at the same time ensuring a better objective review of the subjects assigned to us. This has been done, among other things, by increasing the participation of the individual Branch Committee on different issues. True, this has in some cases added weight to the process, but we have tried to do it better than we have been, following in the footsteps of the former foreign committee and trying to learn, if that experience exists. With regard to the concept of the special European Committee of the Parliament, I believe it is well worth considering. paritaprevir Gullish Þór Þórðarson and others have given fine evidence to support that view.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u112	A respectable president. I didn't mean to take the honor for the highest. Secretary of finance for having worked in the past to provide guidance on how to manage that work. I remember well from the Foreign Affairs Committee during the last term that there was some document that had been worked under the custody of the man who was followed when we were talking about how we should do it within the council. My opinion is that we've tried, and, of course, some way it has to be done. My food is that the wall that was built there is so high that it is difficult. Sometimes you have to work, so you say, " Of course I wanted to do things like this,'but if I don't handle them that way, I have to tailor to what I can do and what we can do. We need to recognize it during the council, and the natural government and the Supreme Court. Minister of state also, that we are deeply concerned with ESAs and our data providers on how late we are coming in. We need to try to answer that question. If there's two people making them we don't want to, I don't think we want to do it ourselves, always be in some shame and be in danger of being called to the court because we haven't introduced something. I'm not criticizing people here, saying that it's all impossible. I'm just saying we have to face this and make decisions about some system we can handle. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u113	V.E.G. President. In this respect, though we may be able to discern other issues, I think that our viewpoint is somewhat compatible. Regarding how we adapt to the present arrangement, we are in a process, or we can say that we are learning while performing here at the council. I can tell you what. A senator for suing the matters that come here at the council and for reviews of past stages has been greatly sustained during the winter. It has been a fairly organized practice, and it is more appropriate than before to follow up other committees of the council who have been given a legal case to handle the matter. Of course, what turns on us at the council is just one aspect of this, one of the aspects involved in the management system. There, we face both human birth, a lack of priorities, and something here and there in the council because, while the State Department is primarily responsible for the implementation of the contract, introduction or preparation will be introduced into the entire Ministry, each in its own language. In some cases, lameness has occurred. This is the question of integrating it. I wanted to say that I can agree with the EEA contract as a matter of course. paritaprevir Bjarnadóttir says that while fixing the arrangement and cleaning it better, we need to be more aware of the need to set priorities, to consider which matters really are important to us, to give attention, to our opinion, and to spend time with the money and human resources in caring for them rather than for others. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u114	President. I think we really agree on these matters, me and the other. Senator. Of course, if the tail is shorter than it was, it's only pleasant and joyous, and we agree absolutely. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] At the meeting I was in right now, they said, "It's a small country, but Liechtenstein, no more are there, but they can handle it better than we can. They'll do it, they'll finish it. Then we can have the opinion that they don't do it well or something like that. All I'm saying is, if what this government is going to do to our closest partners is to keep the EEA deal, then we have to do it as well as we can. It is easy to see that we should at least pursue a higher course. That's what I'm coming back to.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u115	V.E.G. President. I'm coming here for my second speech, which is no longer than five minutes maximum. I went to the top of a report with various factors. The minister of foreign affairs in my first speech, entitled Palestine, Human Rights, Atlantic Community, Ukraine, and finally, I stepped up to the international deals we have in and wanted to say a few words about the last one we've joined, that's the TSA deal, Trade in Services -- now my name. The approach to this agreement has 50 countries, 28 EU countries and then 22 other countries. We had a formal discussion in the summer of 2013. That's when we got into our negotiations. I would like to state that it is not necessarily easy to share such negotiations. This is our part of the world. This is Europe. This is America. These are the northern nations. These are the kingdoms that we have in our intimate relations and business dealings. So there is a step that needs to be taken to tell one of the things that can be difficult to take. I'm inclined to believe we should. This is because I think our arrival there and all of these countries don't have moral standards. After the GATS treats stopped in 2008, these states, first a smaller group with the United States in the head, to the rat together, called themselves Real Good Friends of Services, good friends of business agreements, and thought they could be joking about this in secret as if this was all at first, as all these contracts have been. It is the poorest part of the world that is standing outside and has tried to resist this trend. The changes in international business contracts over the course of time in a report by the highest degree are considered fine. Secretary of state. For example, this is made by appeal to the EFTA Convention, which at the time was primarily a customs agreement, of opening a market. It goes on to say that gradually they began to deepen, as it is called, toward the service trade and the application of competitive rules. What does that mean? It means that it is not enough to open the market but also that all people sit at the same table, that subsidies, for example, or any kind of support are forbidden. It's where the welfare service, if she goes on this table, gets so fragile. If she has become a commercial product that cannot be given any community support. Now I know that these contracts have been referred to as keeping the health services out of doors in the same way as with the European Union's Service Directive, which refers to basic aspects of health care. Other factors, such as cleaning hospitals - management with welfare services, have become available - they go public. That's what makes it so delicate. Hence, an intense discussion in society is needed before we become involved. Then there's one thing I stepped away only at the end of my speech, i.e. that, rather than allowing the courts of the individual nations to settle the issues that will take place in an effort to create laws for which companies will come, and the states will be out of the way. [[The president calls.]] This is irreversible. [[The president calls.]] No matter how this is viewed, we should get out of this process and return to the rest of the nations that had and had a place in GATS. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u116	A respectable president. There are many things in this discussion that have not been discussed. I heard why. paritaprevir The Ögmundur of Jónasson is here merely for cooperation. I don't think he mentioned the word TITP, but it's one of the big things we have to talk about and it means a lot of opportunity for us Icelanders. We Icelanders would still be the poorest nation in Western Europe if we had no access to foreign markets. It's a tragedy that the WTO's not finished the new round, and no one's gonna lose more of that than the poorest state in the world. Because this has not been achieved, the United States has taken the lead in large negotiations with the Pacific countries and since the EU. While most of the European Economic Areas will have a positive effect on us, it is likely because the European Union - we in EFTA may not be the biggest players on that playground, however, we can have an effect. It is probable that one reason why WTO did not reach the conclusion is that the European Union did not show sufficient initiative. The people who have taken the initiative and passed contracts against it are Americans. The European Union is the nature of atoll alliance with an old - fashioned, dramatic thought that you were hoping would be past, but unfortunately it is not. It could come here, and I think it will strengthen America's position to be the big party on both sides, both the Atlantic and the Pacific. It is important for us to keep a close eye on this trend and also try to negotiate as many vacation contracts as possible, both in the field of EFTA, where we have great opportunities, but also ourselves. EFTA is someone everyone wants to negotiate with. We're a relatively small organization, but with powerful countries like Switzerland and Norway, and we're as important as markets for various parties as well, there's great potential. A respectable president. The European Union was referred to here as the effect. The best metaphor I can find in the European Union is that the European Union is like a stairway. There are some involved, and there is only one person. If we entered the European Union, we would put things into the partnership that are of little importance to many countries but of great importance to us. For example, we set the fishing and agricultural sectors, we set the business, which, for example, makes it possible for us to negotiate with China --wah. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson now shut them down, and it was well done. But we couldn't have done that if we were in a tax alliance with the European Union. I encourage everyone to study the European Parliament and to visit them and see what sort of arrangement there is. While men have the dream of becoming some kind of empire and looking to the United States, there is no such arrangement in the United States and the European Union. In that town, the chief, Juncker, former prime minister of Luxembourg, was not even available, and most did not know who he was, although he was the president of the Commission. Most of the voters, I don't think it was 8% or 6%, knew who he is. It also shows the peculiar place where the council is in two places, in Brussels, and in Strasbourg. Once a month, the whole thing just goes from Brussels to Strasbourg. When it started, there were men with heavy trains of trucks because there was so much paper. Paper's gone, but the truck train's moving. This sounds like a comedy story, but these are facts. It's probably because of the French labor movement, she doesn't want to stop the work there. So there's more or less empty freight trains running every month between Brussels and Strassburg. There, a respectable president, is not well controlled with funds. In fact, a large portion, about 5%, of the European Union's expenses, is something that accountants do not trust to document because they do not know where to go. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's one and a half U.S. budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u117	V.E.G. President. I don't quite agree with the analysis. A senator, either in the European Union or in the agreements he referred to, TTIP, which are business contracts between the United States and the European Union and ours in the end, and he says that they are extremely important for us. This is the same or similar nature of the TiSA agreements, Trade in Services Agreement was what I didn't remember at the moment, and is not at all the highest. A senator spoke of, customs contracts. This is much deeper. In fact, it was the European Union that he said was an old - fashioned toll alliance. That is much more so with my own EFTA, old EFTA. The European Union and the EEA Convention have been developing into a much deeper agreement on internal markets where they commit themselves to do no work, so that everyone is on equal markets. That is what poor countries believe was not in their favor. They want democracy to control more in their communities than these treaties assume. Right away. A senator says that the third world, the poor part of the world, lost most of its failure to enter the GATS agreements, as they lay before 2008, when they went ashore - should we let them judge for themselves? We don't have to have such a custodyal attitude toward them. It was in accordance with the opinion of the poorer part of the world, and the rest took off to impose these contracts on them, as the report states, "There is hope for the end."
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u118	A respectable president. Hv. A senator has not completely listened to my speech, but he has no problem with it. First, it is totally unmistakably clear that it is the advantage of the poorest countries to access the richest markets. If anyone says otherwise, it's a very drastic opinion. Let's think, Iceland. If we did not have access to our fish markets, what did that mean for our goods, or with other exports? We'd be poor. There's nothing more complicated than that. The EU is a toll alliance. It's a common customs policy. EFTA is not a union. There, a common business policy in the European Union, with the very old - fashioned view that they have such a rich market that someone somehow needs to buy access to it. Is that contrary to the ideas that Adam Smith had at the time I was hoping had now gone through, but it wasn't. But the dog is right. A member of the Parliament that modern business agreements go to the least part, at least between developed countries, to the toll, since tolls have, in general, lost the tolls. However, technical obstacles have developed. One thing is the service trade. A senator mentioned, but then, for example, we're in a business block with the EU out of the EEA Convention. For example, there are technical obstacles that we can see when buying American goods, although they all meet conditions, we need to stick special tickets to the products, because the definition is not set out exactly as to be done by the European Union's standards. What has happened in the European Union - it was supposed to be an internal market so that products were especially opened up - is that the handwriting has taken over and that all things are now being synchronized. Things that had long been sold in one country suddenly did not meet EU standards.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u119	V.E.G. President. I don't have the story exactly on this point in my mind. EFTA and the original European Union, the European Community, were tollabanda law and EFTA was longer. Since then, they, and then through the EEA Convention, including the EFTA countries or those involved, have been developing into the internal market with a uniform general work on the foundation of the market. That is what has been happening, and many of us are critical of those who have been opposed to going in there, and most important, in view of how many aspects of business and community services have been sucked into this system. It's been ours or at least my criticism. Regarding the third world or poorer part of the world that self-evaluated it so that the GATS agreements, as they were established, were too aggressive against their interiors and their own democracys. That is, they did not want to allow the global wealth to come into their contribution when, above all, there is a requirement to bring up a case of opinion that may be introduced into a court where the court of those states is not able to find out, that is, stipulated in these contracts. And another thing that is even more serious than anything, is that what else is negotiated in GATS, and the same is true of the TiSA agreements, is not irreversible. If the government is to retract any part of the agreement, it can be brought to justice and required of damages. This has happened. I think it was Bolivia and some other state that tried it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u120	A respectable president. It's some kind of misunderstanding. EFTA has never been a union. Toll unions involve common tolls in the same states. The EU has always been a toll alliance. It's called a common business policy. Each member of the EFTA country has a business policy. Hv. A senator can only look it up if he doesn't believe it. EFTA has never been a union. Then, in 2008, the reason why the talks were on the beach points out to one another as to which it was to blame, etc. the usual procedure. In terms of the courts, all countries that are members of the International Business Agency, WTO, courts of the International Business Agency. The courts are like that, like cot. A senator was referring to the gathering of a so-called panel, such as the NAFTA method, and the state must comply with the result. If I recall correctly, the more dignified president is that there are two from each disputer, then a point man comes from somewhere else. During the famous European Union and the United States, as well as the United States and Russia, about steel, Stefán Haukur Jóhannesson, the current Ministry General, who worked a great deal in the International Business Organization, was the proponent of that dispute. It is not new that an international court is involved in business affairs. It's not really possible to do that any other way. [[The management agency is since 1995...]] A respectable president. The GATS system is from 1948. A senator, a respected president, has always had ways to resolve a case. [[Up front.]] But if there's a new, something from 1995, a respectable president, I'd like to say. A fine þingmaður named Algmund Ögmundur to look at the annual talk. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u121	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a report with you at the highest level. The minister of foreign and international affairs of Gunnar Bragi, son of Sveinsson. First, let me say that it is very important and useful to discuss foreign affairs in a broad context on the basis of such a summary as this report. It is clear to no one how dependent we really are on foreign transactions in all areas of business and human life. I think it's a positive and important method to keep up with a report like this, end up discussing all the best and attracting of Iceland's situation and policy in the international community. Thus, the discussion in the regular form and information services of the Ministry will be more specific to the Generals and the nation. I welcome that report to the top. Minister and him for her. What a fine talk and meaningful discussion this has been published today! The scope and extent of the report are involved. I have, a respectable president, an interest in being especially involved in civil service and the importance of international business cooperation, especially the EEA Convention. The extent of civil service, the protection and support it gives us citizens, has increased over the years, i.e. The legal feature of our foreign service has increased progressively as the country travels and the fact that well over the years, a considerable number of people have moved to move abroad to work, to educate or to improve their own interests, but according to the economy, some 43,000 Icelandic citizens live abroad. The report also shows that, overall, some 30,000 talks are being received each year to the embassy and the Ministry's main office. For the application period, some 600 talks had been delivered to London's embassy last January. Some adjustments have been made to improve the ministry and, among other things, have been made 24 hours a day as a result of emergency cases abroad, as well as an emergency situation abroad where a response group is prepared if it comes to activate that strategy. Our foreign service may be small but, more dignified President, it is powerful and I allow it to state that the civil service and the organization we have developed there will show us how powerful it is and how well it has matured over the years and decades at the turn of the changed times. It has been achieved by the powerful people working there and the communication network they have developed by cooperating with other governments and in close cooperation with the foreign services of other countries. In this way, a network of security systems has been built on what is so important to us, and in this context, we have also received worldwide support from the judges. Iceland's claimaries now number some 243 and serve in 89 countries, doing unselfish idealistic work in behalf of countries and nations, and in volunteer work. This is a priceless work, and much of it is part of why we can have the full - time ministry as much as we owe it to a respectable president. Such a network as we have built up around civil service is important to us in other areas, and especially for business where we are highly dependent on the import and export, i.e. We build our livelihoods on foreign business. A similar business organization, and in this context of civil service, is supported by Icelandic employment and Icelandic companies, including In cooperation with Iceland, with a client at Iceland's embassies, and with Iceland's Business Council. The report says that today, Icelandic companies have access to a large network of holiday contracts that cover a total of 69 countries through the EFTA Treaty, the EEA Convention and the 25 EFTA contracts. Then there are two-sided free shops in Iceland on the Faeroe Islands, Greenland, and China. The government has given high priority to promoting the interest management and implementation of the EEA agreement and emphasis on EFTA in the construction of a vacation network, but at the same time being open to two-sided vacation agreements where the EFTA countries are not responsible for common integration in such agreements. It is vital to monitor economic development in different markets and economics and to strengthen and draw closer to that market. In this context, Europe is the biggest market in Iceland, with about 72% of total transport in 2014, and we can compare the United States together with 4.9%, even less to Canada. I mention them because they're the economics that seem to be getting stronger for a while and during the coming losses. This is a free business between the United States and the European Union. In accordance with this, it is very important for us and the EFTA countries to carefully monitor their progress in discussions and to carefully review the potential economic effects of that contract. For one thing, it should be noted that today customs are not barriers in the export of Icelandic crops to the United States. Therefore, the question may be asked whether the increased strength of enterprises in the European Union weakens our position toward the United States. This is a major economic and interest issue in many other areas, because we are talking about a huge deal and one of the largest, if any, being done in this regard. Therefore, it is important for the Icelandic government and the EFTA countries to analyze and assess the interests involved. For this reason, the government has appointed a meeting group that has provided its first milestone report. Like I said, it's one of the largest business and investment agreements ever made. Hence, his influence will be great. There's a lot of business involved. The competition between Icelandic enterprises is below and the consequences and the effects on the EEA deal, which is so important to us. A respectable president. Finally, I would like to thank you to the extreme. Secretary of state for a clear report.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u122	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for this fine discussion that has been on the report. I believe that the discussion was mostly objective and very meaningful, and this has been a wide range of topics and issues discussed here. There's been some mention of the ocean case here. I reiterate what I said that me and the Environment Minister have already had a conversation about starting a special job on the issues of the ocean. This too has been about developing cooperation, which is a very important part of the foreign policy and the foreign service and the work we are dealing with. That's our whole objective, I think, to add to the funds we have for developing projects. We know that 2009 the amount was over 4 billion, 2011 3 billion, and we are on our way up, even though we still do not have a higher percentage. Hv. Generalist Ögmundur Jónasson spoke of human rights and gave a good reason to approach the world's problems, whether they approach them from the threat or from the defense, so to speak. He spoke of people tending to move closer to the threat rather than stay away from it. I'm listening for it, but I believe that what we've done is in itself the right course. Still, it is important to keep words in mind that are bad. A senator commented on whether we should always get involved in every case that appears on the radar. Hv. A senator also discussed the TiSA talks. They are business practices, of course, but they aim for such countries as Iceland to make the country even more competitive than before in the large world in which we work, and the service trade is of enormous importance to Iceland. If we're just talking about flights, for example, or travel services, it's important. I'm not going to belittle a word. Senator. There are certainly some pits and dangers in all of this that we will try to avoid and emphasize. For public service, such as health care. A senator mentioned, it is true that these are not some so - called basic services, but they can certainly be some project related to the services of health institutions in the package. I would also like to promote that I find it interesting to consider whether we can invite countries that do not participate in these discussions like the smaller peoples of the world, so to speak, we can only talk about developing countries or other countries, that Iceland can, of course, decide, whether to offer them similar favors and to come out of these discussions. I find it very interesting to look at it. Hv. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson discussed many matters. He asked one direct question, what the secretary would do about the European Union's response to the letter he received. Of course, I expect the European Union to respect what is stated in this letter. The European Union has often said that it is worth the will of the Icelandic government. If there's something drawn, I will, of course, walk by it does. I'd like to mention a word too. paritaprevir Óttar Proppér, where he considered the importance of having a powerful foreign service and working positively on matters and trying to promote cooperation and cooperation. That was a very good speech from what happened. A senator and I'll agree with her. Of course, I also love the good words he said about the foreign service and its staff, which and other members have done here. There's a lot of talk about the EEA deal and the signs that he's an orphan in some way. I don't agree, but it's been shown here many times that we certainly need to do better with that deal. Hv. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir's daughter gave a fine speech here, brought in a few words that I think, she talked about meat worlds, there was a net world, and then a meat world, and I don't remember hearing it before. It is, however, a very interesting name for the world of mankind and what happens in it. She spoke of the humanitarian work and the relief work, especially Syria. There, we have acted specifically in connection with the United Nations organization's emergency and humanitarian assistance, providing at least 70 billion. K. We have also received refugees from Syria, but it is no doubt safe to discuss this and possibly do better. Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson ran through Internet security. Network security is a factor that we must take seriously, and it is specifically discussed. In the drawing of national security policy, which hopefully comes sooner than later to the council. Hv. paritaprevir Your Valgerður Bjarnadóttir asked about the EEA contract, if the Minister wanted to hold the EEA contract. I think the EEA deal is the best thing we have today in our business dealings with the European Union and the European Union. On the other hand, people know the words I have spoken about the agreement before. He is 20 years old, and it is natural for him to review whether his activity is to be as good as it should be. These are the key questions that have been addressed to me during the discussion. I reiterate that I think the discussion has been perplexing and good. I'd like to thank the senators at the end for the participation in the discussion. Of course, I would like to thank the good personnel of the State Department who wrote this report and is on the Watch and Guard around the world for us and who respond to telephones, such as in civil service, 24 hours a day. I want to thank the good people for their work and for their report.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u123	Mr. President. It's like the highest. Minister knows I don't give much for his opinions on the continuation of cooperation between Iceland and the European Union. That's a political opinion. V.E.G. A minister has the highest authority to have any opinion he wants, but he has a course. He has a European policy that he presented in his day. It was shown from the very first answer to the highest. Minister on what? paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter earlier today on that course, and I find it perplexing to say, it's not done. I'd say she's in prisons. In the European Policy, specific tools are attributed to the highest level. Ministers intend to use it to make better use of the opportunities they feel given within the EEA. I basically agree that it is possible to make better use of the contract, but it turns out that Europe policy is not met. For example, a special report was to be completed on the 20th anniversary of the contract last year. She's not here yet, not so I know. Similarly, money was to be made in order to improve the workoff at earlier levels. Here, people have been talking about this many times. paritaprevir Gullless Þórðarson, especially today. For that reason, because I'm tired of arguing about this here, I think and I have submitted my opinion that we at the State Department should cross this and look at it. It's our job to give the highest. Minister after incident or assistance. The question that I'm about to ask at the end of this discussion is to wonder at the highest level. A minister and a member of my speech is a two - sided member of a vacation shop. What is going on with a vacation store or a conversation or a survey of the possibility of a vacation store with Greenland and with Japan?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u124	A respectable president. As members of the council may have noticed, I decided not to spend many words on my first talk. paritaprevir I'm doing this with Össur's Skarphéðinsson today. However, I decided to answer the question he had directed to me. Only on the European Policy and the EEA Convention. It is right to come, of course, that the EEA contract is at the administration of the State Department. The EEA deal is important to Iceland, and I'm prepared to agree. In effect, a senator has walked too slowly to get certain things into this fine course of our European policy. On the other hand, I trusted in the senator's team to do so even. to raise money for the next money on this contract and what we have to do there. However, we have a good assessment of the agreement we were going to make. It is true that we were going to publish it before New Year's Eve, but it's going to delay something. We're starting a conversation and meeting stakeholders on the contract, so there's a number of things going on, but certainly we're just behind schedule. I now think that in the end it won't be the big thing. Hv. A senator asks about a vacation shop on Greenland and Japan. I picked it up on my trip to Japan and discussed free business opportunities with my colleagues there and other parties. It's quite clear that, if they have a discussion, the Japanese will be more interested in talking to the EFTA countries together than any individual state to make such agreements. What we will do next is, of course, pressing for such discussions or plans. Regarding Greenland, we signed a year and a half ago a Declaration of Willing to the Greenlandns of Business Potentials and such. So we clearly keep open, but this has been so much less interesting to Greenland on making such agreements. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] However, the discussion has recently taken place, and hopefully some movement will make it work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u125	Mr. President. I don't care if the highest minister doesn't want to say anything about my speech. I didn't want it. I just asked a few questions that he has answered in part. Otherwise, my speech was exactly the speech to be held in the middle of the terms. Then the government's role is to cross over and compare the original and cross - up policies. What I did was to save the highest. A minister to discuss more about this last mission he went to Brussels, and everyone knows how he's played it, and no more. But I pointed out that there were four fields of compromise to the highest level. One minister said that he was going to make a special point in his day. I can't rule out that when the season ends after two years of total normality, he's got some of that stuff going down. But it just so happens that I'm going to scram the report. I listened to a talk at the top. Minister. So I think I've been able to afford to give a quick speech here, showing it by referring to the report that almost none of the four areas in the highest order. A minister intended to make sure that his main focus field has yielded some special success. We don't need to discuss how the EEA contract has been conducted. We need only listen to what the former Ministry Secretary of Ministry and High Iceland has been saying the last few days. I'm not the one who makes the money want and the deal is orphans. It's Sverrir Haukur Gunnlaugsson who says that. That's why I believe he should be invited to a meeting with the committee. I could, for example, give my second speech to review it again, but the cooperation with the United States has not increased. The EEA contract is done worse than before. It's been shown. North Pole, what's happened there? [[The president calls.]] They've been reassigned to another department.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u126	A respectable president. Just a few corrections. Since then, relationships with the United States have greatly improved. A senator dissuaded from the office of Foreign Minister. Regarding the north, it was evident as soon as we arrived at the Ministry that things had to be made up. There was not much focus on such things at any time. Minister. It was put in a history of affairs, and put our most experienced ambassador in charge of it. Also, a prime minister's committee was appointed to show the importance of the matter. I'm not gonna spend any more on this, because there aren't many formal questions left. I want to thank you again for the discussion, I think she was good and thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u127	Mr. President. I have my second speech and will not extend this discussion in moderation. I gave a talk earlier today, where I gave the highest work. Minister on the scale he created at the beginning of the season. He then declared the priorities he was going to follow. There were four. I've only been through them. I'm not gonna take the time to go over them again. One of his words was simply this: Improving his relationship with the United States. Of course, it is now well known that our relationship with the United States has not been as good since 2006 as it was before, but it is, in fact, a superpower, we have always had that friendly relationship, and although at times the time the nation has torn itself out of controversy over the American military beings, it is part of the past. However, we need and should strive to cultivate this Kingdom, especially since it has been a kind one for us and for the Icelanders to have a fine historical memory. They do not forget that the United States was the first nation to accept our independence and that we would not have become independent in 1944 unless the United States encouraged and supported us. That was important. We should not forget such things. Since 2006 the situation has been quite different. It is true that while I was Minister of State, it has certainly not pleased the Americans the hard stand I took, and the entire government that I belonged to, toward Palestine. That's right. But when it's the highest. He was struck on his chest by a minister who said that there would be a powerful way to prove that the relationship could be improved. How's that been? V.E.G. Minister said it got better. How's that been? He hasn't even had a meeting with one of the U.S. Ministers. Yes, he had a photo shoot where Hagel Hagel, who is no longer in the government, stopped by to publish a picture of them. There wasn't a meeting. Has he had a proper meeting with the U.S. Secretary of State? No. I'm not making the most of it. Minister for that, let's not even say it's because he's not being received, I'm not going to say it. But we both know, me and the highest. Minister, that's because there's a problem between Iceland and the United States. When I'm at the highest. Minister says the relationship will improve under his leadership, but we have to watch our work. [[Up front.]] For example, consider the comments made about the whales of Iceland. When I was a minister of foreign affairs, we certainly got such things and were able by military force to negotiate the worst woodwork that was then tore. Mr. President. Since then, the laws of this government have become harder. Last week a document was published in the United States where it is shown literally or said that the U.S. ministers do not even speak or come to Iceland on this matter. There's more that it showed in black and white that the Pelly Protocol is harder in the history of this government than in the past. Has the highest. Secretary of State in any way discuss this with the U.S. Secretary of State? It wasn't so that one was the best. A minister had to face the fact that the United States held a very important conference about the sea? Who came from Iceland? It was the highest. Minister? No, nobody. In no way can it be said that since 2006 the United States was cold on our surface, it has never been more harsh than in the past. Of course, these are the same classes that in the past did not have contact with the United States for a short time in 2006. I'm not going to review that story, but the fact was that it was prehistoric how those contracts were held. But it wasn't the forward party to blame, so I'm not going to fight him for it. I would appreciate that, Mr. President, if ever. At the end of the day, a minister wanted to make me happy before we leave home and tell me: "What is the sign that our relationship with the United States has improved?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u128	A respectable president. I cannot help but accept the request of my fine colleague to surface here. I think the best criteria for better communication between the United States and Iceland is a project that we're actually working on together, which is a very interesting project - I'm going to retract the word ◯Synone, we're looking for a way to implement it. Hv. A senator called it a security center or something like that and apparently forgot what the project was called, a search and rescue center in Iceland. We're looking for and we're doing a great job together, and we're talking to the Americans now to help us carry it out. We've had some conferences with the United States to improve here - space monitoring and the like. In case of a moment. A senator's view is whether there is a konsical example that shows that something has been approved or done that describes improved communication is likely not. However, it is quite clear that the spirit that is in our discussion with the United States is quite different, since it was not lacking after the divorce of Americans during the last term, in terms of communication with them. It is plain that when we got in there, things were in such a way that it takes time to work back, for example. ... theyhaveeatliketime. A senator brings up the matter of communication with the United States. It is true that a former minister and current senator have not yet met at a two - side meeting of the U.S. Secretary of State. But I've had informal talk with him. They all know the reasons for that, of course, that's for this whalevesene all of it. But assistant Ministers and others like to meet us and talk to us, and there's a lot of interest in the Americans, I think, more than for many years, on having good relations with Icelanders. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We're very happy about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u129	I'm not gonna fuck with that at the highest. Minister, I'm going to give him one piece of advice, and then he decides if he will follow it. The Foreign Minister of Iceland isn't supposed to be meeting any assistant ministers, that's just the way it is. He is to speak to those who are equal to him and no one else and no one else. It's just that kind of thing. It is true that cold winds often blew between us and the United States, which may not have appeared, including. Because of Palestine, and of course it was the strongest, but also because of whales. All right, I'll tell you what's going on. Minister from the time I told the ambassador of the United States that if all he wanted to talk to me was the whale matter, I wouldn't bother to meet him at any more meetings. I felt that there was an agreement to be made on how to handle it at my meeting and the U.S. Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton. We agreed on how to handle it. They simply did not keep it. That is how humans are to treat empires as well as those living in Brussels. That's why I'm saying, away from my point of view, and I said here today that it doesn't matter if we're on the hard side about the European Union, the highest. A minister should not allow the European Union or anyone else to get away with something that he himself calls scourging to be different from cutting down his feet. Because it's the highest. Minister thought I had forgotten the vow of a security and search center, whatever people would call it, and our cooperation with the United States on that, I know all about it. It began at my meeting and the U.S. Secretary of State, and then I wait for it, perhaps after a year, to the highest. Ministers can tell me how far it's been, if he ever began to meet with any man of intelligence other than assistant Secretary of State and some sort of concertist of this empire.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u130	A respectable president. I think there's a difference now. First of all, I'm not the big issue that I can't meet an assistant minister or officials or members of Congress and discuss such matters. That may have been the course a few years ago, for the Ministers' time of the season. paritaprevir Acquiess the Össur of Skarphéðinsson, not talking to men unless they had a title. I don't know. It's also interesting to hear that the only thing that happened. A senator and then a minister spoke with the Americans were the whales and he was bored with it. There are other interesting issues that we are discussing with the Americans. The whale's speech is certainly discussed because they have an obligation to do so, including the following: According to Pelly. But I look forward to strengthening them even more. I think we'll, and hopefully, see the sign before the end of an election season.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u131	Mr. President. Of course, it was not an unconcerned rule, but it required a lot of fun to do so. I wish to the highest. Ministers are enchanting and hoping that he will be able to improve his relationship with the United States. For one reason I came here to discuss this, he believed that the relationship had improved so much. All right. I'm on the State Department. I'm worried about the case. I am one of the few men who at least believe that having a good and close relationship with the United States is very important to us. Not everyone on my political path is necessarily on it. I said one before. A senator from the platform today said that we were probably the last Mexicans to think that this was important. That's just the way it is. I'd love to see the highest. For example, a minister works on the foundation that had been built and gets a proper agreement on northern trade between us and the United States. I'm sure he'll bring it here next year. But the highest. A minister should not come into a chair and beat himself on his chest and talk about his contact with certain governments so much better than his predecessors when the fact is that he does not even get a meeting with them. However, it received a former government and may have been at a different level of politics than the highest. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u132	A respectable president. I will now briefly explain a report on our participation in cooperation with the Norwegian governments in 2014 as it is at the scene of the Norwegian Ministers. The report was like many of the past few years employed in good cooperation and consultation with the Ministry and their institutions when appropriate. This time, the focus was on changing the reporting process with the intention of making it more legible and hopefully more interesting. The last year was special in the Norwegian partnership because Iceland was leading the Norwegian Ministerial Committee. The role of headship is large and responsible. It is accompanied by increased pressures, which are added to the daily activities of all the employees of the Council of the Management Board who serve on the Norse Office and the Minister of the Government, who sit in the seat of their Ministerial Committees. I want to thank all the employees who came to this great job, and I think we have managed to bring our cooperation well. We were able to focus on this by placing on the emphasis we believe more important, not just for us Icelanders, but for the entire northern population. The dress chain in our premeditation consisted of the prehuman works of NordBo/Bophilia, the Norwegian playlist, and the Norwegian welfare team. Although the projects are a part of our management program, they are in all places as Norwegian and are accepted as such by the Norwegian collaborators and continue to be part of the Norse Ministers Committee's priorities, at least for the next two years. The project was given a lot of work during the year, but all of it has passed the proposed plans at the beginning of the prehuman age. The largest of these projects is the NordBo/Bophilia project, which devoted 10 billion to this purpose. A dance tap. or more than 200 million. Insemination. K. in the year. Biophilia, a major project in Nord Bio's case, is responsible for the North American Ministers of Education. This is an academic experiment based on the cooperation of science and art, and the matters of the NordBo part are very varied and may include: Find innovation, environment, urban development, energy, agriculture, forestry, fishing, and food production. Thus, it was first realized that the project would require the arrival of many cohesion and a high preparatory and formative effort for this. In particular, in this country, there are three agencies responsible for the project. There are the Department of Employment, the Ministry of Education, and the Environment Ministry as well as five Ministers within the National Ministers Committee. We have, in turn, cooperated with powerful Norwegian institutions that contribute to the project as well as with research and innovation in the countries. In fact, we Icelanders have broken down in cooperation with this project, but it has never occurred before in the process of forming a Norwegian project that requires cooperation with so many different forms of cooperation. The project is three years old and is all the odds for a total of 600 million. Insemination. K. Protected to do so. The Norwegian drama is a cultural project that is responsible for the Norwegian Minister of Culture. Its aim is to introduce North American pop music both in the north and outside, and at the beginning of the prehuman year, the project was well established that it could be introduced as early as January. The network is used to promote Norwegian music and is its center on a special website where the presentation is conducted. All of the main objectives of the project were reached in the year for demonstrations of community media and visits on their websites and are expected to become more musical forms in 2015 and 2016. The Norwegian money for the project was 2 billion. Dancing jar. about 40 million. Insemination. K. and it is assumed that the same amount will be set out for the year and that it will remain unaltered for the next year too. The Norwegian Health Watch is based on the Icelandic welfare watch set up in this country following the 2008 economic collapse. At one time, the parade was introduced to the Norwegian Social Affairs Councils, where the idea of studying the effects of financial difficulties and related consequences on the Norwegian welfare systems was raised to promote informed well - being policies in the North countries. The Norwegian Social and Health Ministers are responsible for the project, but at home, it is the Department of Health for Self-Progression and ensures the Norwegian Connection. As with other prehuman activities, the year was marked by a great preparation and development of the Norse connections. The project was planned and the first results can be expected in later years. Yesterday's special presentation meeting on the project has become a very impressive website with information on the project. All of it was 3 billion. A ball of dancing, about 60 million. Insemination. K. to the project. The same amount has been set this year as expected to remain in 2016. As reported in the preambles of this report, North American cooperation is very extensive and unwilling to render it fully in one place. To do that, we have a website of the Norwegian Ministers and the Norwegian institutions, and then we've tried as naturally as we can convey information to our own websites of the problem. On the other hand, I'm going to skim on a large scale and mention a few Norwegian events held here, which involved us Icelanders planning and matters that were in the dough during the year. It has long marked the Norwegian government business to be asked at regular intervals what countries want from it and whether it is still practical to look for mutual solutions in various ways rather than for each country to solve its own issues. In this spirit began with the Swedish Presidency debate among the Ministers on policy plans or the future vision of the Norwegian cooperation over the coming years. That discussion ended at the beginning of our prehumanity year with the Ministers agreeing on a statement designed to guide them in the next few years' cooperation. In short, the colleagues want cooperation in the future to aim that the North countries will be without borders, to promote them as emerging areas, to make them visible by convening together to attract the attention of the Northern World as a single entity and that they better bring their international strings together. For more information on this, see the Homepage of the Ministerial Committee. 9 on the report. In accordance with the above declaration of the need to attract the attention of the entire Northern world as a whole, work began in the year to shape a common plan to introduce and create international position. This work was based on the results of a survey made by the Ministers following the Nordic Cool Culture Festival held at the Kennedy Center in February 2013 and was extremely successful. Extensive citizens of the countries who are concerned with these issues were asked if there is a need for a consistent strategy for the launch of the Northern countries as an area and what it would bring. The evidence was conclusive that such a thing was very desirable, and the additive effect was obvious. The project was scheduled early in the year and was designed to be made up of a Norse National Expert group who had a road and problem preparing the plan for cooperation with the Copenhagen Commission Information Department. The plan to introduce and create a national position on a global scale of 2015/2018 was then submitted to a meeting of colleagues at the end of October, where it was approved. The plan will be implemented from 2015 on, and it has now been appointed as project manager for four years to oversee its implementation. It is expected that all who plan for a joint Norwegian presentation and marketing will thus be able to apply themselves to the plan. The work of the Ministerial Committee in removing the administrative barriers changed with that the border barrier Council began to operate on January 1. Secondly, countries will now take turns leading the work according to the prehumanity of the Norwegian Minister. So it was up to us to be in charge of this first year of service that was marked by hard work in organizing the staff so that they could produce results. It is clear that one of the main premises for the release of administrative barriers is the interest, will and ability of members, ministers and officials to change legislation or change the implementation of regulations as appropriate in each obstacle. I'd like to use this opportunity, and particularly thank Siv Friðleifsdóttir's great work last year as the first head of the border barrier. The year was at least 60 years from the time of signing the Treaty on a joint labour market. A conference was held in Hörpu that discussed various aspects of the Norwegian labour market. On the same occasion, the key results of a large investigation into the Norse Health System and the challenges it faces in the decades ahead were presented. The digital revolution, resulting in a reduced number of jobs, increasing globalisation, which leads, among other things, to the transport of companies and employment opportunities to an environmentally favorable region, and finally to an increasing average age of northern population, and to an increasing growing number of elderly people who need to rely on the welfare and services of the tax. Another turning point in Norwegian cooperation was Iceland's presidenty year. A conference was held for 40 years of equal work, and the Swan, the Norwegian environmental sign, welcomed a 25 - year co - anniversary. This year much effort was put forth to revise and improve the internal activities of the Norwegian Minister to simplify daily activities and make it more efficient. The director of the office in Copenhagen offered to us the Ministers for improvement at our summer meeting, and most of them were accepted. In particular, I would like to mention improved practices and more transparency in preparing the Norwegian budget, their clearer format in the budget, and their better monitoring of the operations of the norse projects, as well as an increased demand for successful management. All of these are the points the Council of the North has requested in the past few years for a better course. However, I would like to state that when it comes to financial matters, I was particularly concerned with the issue of independence, and people would be more aware of the experience of the higher education conferences who have had a lot of independence as to how they planned their resources, that would be something that every member of the Ministry Committee should consider, and we should work on. Sadly, the language of the Norwegian office in St. Petersburg was high during the year, but when in 2012 there was concern that the presence of the Norwegian Ministerial Committee in Russia would be subject to immediate loss as a result of established legislation in that country on the activity of free communities. The Committee of Ministers of Medicine and St. Petersburg are defined as a free group under Russian law, despite the objections of the Minister of Ministers of Ministers, in the spring months of 2013, by the Office of the Committee of Medicine received a surveillance call made by the prosecutor and, more recently, restored in the middle of the summer 2014 when the DA's office in St. Peter's office was able to make a brief visit to the Minister's office requiring access to computers and data where the operation was now under a slight inspection by the authorities. As a result, in January 2015 the prosecutor ordered that the office be registered as a foreign ambassador, an English president of agent to be put on some black list that appeared on the website of the Russian Ministry of Justice over other Russian members who will eventually receive special oversight by the government. This new position makes it very difficult for the office to carry out its assignments. The job is now in a very waiting position. All tasks have been delayed and the office website has been closed. The North countries believe this to be very sad, for the Norwegian Minister had cooperated well with Russian authorities and institutions since the offices were set up about 20 years ago. The Moscow ambassadors have found meetings in the Russian Ministry of State worried deeply about their surveillance visits and the government's decision to change the office's position in St. Petersburg, and were also encouraged by the Russians to reconsider their position. The Ministry's protest has so far been that there is little hope for that to happen in the near future. The situation of the office in St. Petersburg and the entire business environment is thus very difficult, and we are now discussed with the minister of cooperation and in close consultation with the National State Ministry where to take the lead in its affairs. It is evident, therefore, that major changes will occur regarding the presence of the Ministry Committee in Russia during the next loss. A respectable president. I've touched on a large number of selected points of the report. Of course, much was left out of time. However, I hope that members of Congress would like to discuss the subject of the report, as well as their own cooperation in this field and its translation to us Icelanders, and thus we will have the opportunity to discuss various Norwegian issues that have not yet been involved in this discussion. But I'd like to finish my case by thanking the North Country Office employees on one side for their wonderful cooperation during the year. This could never have gone so well, except for this great, professional, and good work done at their hands. I also want to use this opportunity to thank my predecessor in the work as associate minister, please. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. We can see exactly what I was going through her influence and ideas when it came to this approach. I think the same value for other ministers who came to prepare these projects. And it's what I think is so good in the Northern Union that we see this interracial convergence, independent of political groups, that we all care so much about this cooperation and think it's very important to us.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u133	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for a very interesting report and a nice review. I'd like to ask the highest question. Only one factor to turn to the border barrier or to the targeted work taking place to clear out the administrative barriers. The report shows that the national labour force on social security has followed the implementation of the Community Social Security Convention and has led to a successful solution to many of the administrative barriers during the year. I'd like to ask about what the daily social security system is called poor farms, but the fact is, there are quite a number of Icelanders in the position of getting reduced pay from the Icelandic Social Security System on account of their former habitats abroad, including North countries. It's about those who have lived in the North countries that I'm asking in this context, not about those who have lived elsewhere, but who are not paid from the social security systems of their previous home. I'm guessing that this is also the opposite of the fact that some people lived here and then moved back again. I want the Minister to see if and how the Norwegian Minister is working on a solution for these individuals. Is there a job going on to match rules, I don't know if I can put it that way, but on the other hand, there's some coordination in which people don't fall between systems when it comes to social security for other countries?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u134	A respectable president. Aside from the border barrier Council itself, which had increased and wider roles with the changes started at the beginning of the last year, we have agreed -- I think that there is a certain extent of it coming in, although it is under the social and health ministers, who are directly involved in the public security, we are about to start a new job under the Directorate of Employment Services, a new Kunk project, where we are going over the facilities and planning for the Cooperative Labours. We think it's getting really time. We held a great convention, and it was very interesting to listen to information about where people are moving in the northern countries and the developments that have developed there. It made questions arise when the meeting stated that, in fact, there may be no longer anything we can talk about as a Norwegian labour market but that we are part of the European labour market. When statements such as this appear on the National Ministerial Committee meetings, there is reason to stop and ask: Is that really the case? Is that how we want it? Isn't that a thing where we want to go further, make sure, as I have said, that it's such that when you move between Stockholm and Reykjavík, it's as easy as moving between Reykjavík and Hafnarfjörður? There has been another development since we saw the European Economic Areas coming into existence after several northern countries took the initiative to walk in the European Union, that the emphasis was more on European activities than on Norwegian.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u135	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. I think it's really important that when we're talking about this job market, we think about it as a whole, i.e. from both ends; not just that people have rights as employees but that we need to ensure that the rights really reach all the way, so if something comes up, disease, or other difficulties arise, we have some system that grabs people. In particular, in view of how far and how good it is to say, we've been working in the Northland area, I feel a little bit sorry about what this thing, when it comes to the social security, has somehow not been looking good enough. That's interesting, which is shown in the case of the highest. Minister, that the labour market is changing, and we may need to start thinking of ourselves as part of a bigger area, i.e. The European Economic Area. But it must be acknowledged that it makes the subject, i.e. people's contributions when they've lost their jobs, in fact, even more complex and difficult to deal with. I don't know, I'd guess that maybe it would be easier to start by trying to get the hang of it by the Norwegian team. So here at the end of my second answer, I want to encourage the highest. A minister of activity and trust her well to want to do well in these matters, so we come - because it's not, I think, so many people who are in the tremendously difficult position of having less money from the social security system for farms - this matter in the process of living.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u136	A respectable president. One way to identify this work is that once we remove one barrier, there is even another. That's because our systems are constantly modeling. We have a lot of work going on at my Ministry, which is about to review the social security system where we are reviewing the rights that are present. Among other things, we look at how the trend has been in other parts of the North countries but also what our political policies are here in Iceland. It's so interesting, too, that has to do with this Norwegian team, all these research and comparisons that we use to develop our own systems. For one thing, a report on the Norwegian welfare systems of the Finnish Institute revealed that despite our feeling of dead bodies - from outside us very often, we have used very different methods to achieve the same goals. I know why. A senator has submitted a written request for the same point, so I expect - in more context - to answer it further. [[In the wider context.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u137	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Ministerial staff for the report and a fine report on behalf of the work within the Norwegian Ministers Committee. I'm not going to have much of a case here, but I'm going to have my blood back to my duty as a representative of the Northern Council and have spent some of my time in politics in Norwegian cooperation. There's something in the second decade that I've been living in the Council of the Northland and then in the Norwegian Council of Ministers, so I care about how North American cooperation develops and wants it to be the best way. I want to thank you, too, the highest. Just last year, a minister of her cooperation to the Council of Ministers for the Ministers of Ministers felt that she did well there, at least in all my cases or in our journeys combined, I felt only the highest. A minister took an interest in it, and that is to be said of him. First, the Norwegian team's financial cooperation and, in fact, only the total number of the Norwegian budget in 2014 studied 955 million. A hundred and twenty - five thousand dollars, which could be something near 16 billion on the current gang. That's all there is to it, but I'm behind a considerable story that I'm moved to make only talk about. It is the cutback that has, unfortunately, been like a bruise in the Norwegian partnership for many years and has led to a reduced and, of course, significant reductions in the value of a cut - down operation. Meanwhile, the Swedes were in charge of requiring surgery, but when they did, they may not have responded better to the fact that the device was accepted by Dan and held on to it in recent times. In humans there has been a demand for significant management and reduction of expenses, although in a relatively short period of time there may have been some impairment in the media. Still, if I know correctly, the money may have been dejected, and it is not, if I am aware, still settle on how much people might need even next year or some year to meet such demands. At least they've lived up to it. I came a little bit to this as my associate minister for the only time I've had the privilege of serving the place in the maternity mission of former co-worker Katrín, daughter of Jakobsdóttir. Iceland's situation at a time where there was not much money was that we, on our own, could have accepted some standard similar to what one saw was being done, not here, of course, where much hard work had to be done but, for example. in Denmark, but we took at least Not under direct surgery of this kind, and I hope the same policy is at the hands of the existing government. On the contrary, I feel that now I have to turn my back on the magazine, and I'm getting a little better at it later because I think Iceland's interests are clearly involved in strong Norwegian cooperation. Second, reorganization of the procedure and procedure of the Norwegian Minister and it's only good and good to see that it is in the process. Of course, a person should always be ready to reevaluate his ways. A similar work is being done at the National Council area, and some of it even leads to the implementation of some organizational changes regarding the development of Parliaments, etc. I think it's a good thing for men in both of the cohesion's wings within the Council of Ministers and the Council of the North, or members of the Parliament, to look at this organization. I would like to say, though, that at times, I feel that there is a measure of undue effort on the part of a five - to ten - year - old organization that has really been tried and has survived the test of time, and there is no reason to change for that change. In the 1990's, at least at times, the international Council has overstepped the matter, as well as the major changes made in the 1990's, and then returned after a relatively short period of time when it was found that the first organization had been much better than the trinification that was temporarily driven by a Northern Committee, a surrounding committee, and a European Committee. Third, I'd like to mention what's going on with a joint presentation of international North countries and grounds for further introductions to the North countries and for their name or brand, we can say, internationally. I'm very interested in having this won. The National Economic Commission has provided proposals and work on these products in the process, perhaps in which most of the northern countries have been seen especially in tourism in distant markets, trying to present the North countries as common markets, in common brands, and I think there is a great potential for this. I think it's also good for the North countries to have a stronger common image out of place through such a approach. Not only do I see in this potential business and that this will strengthen our ability to promote our culture and name in the world but it is also good for us, that it will strengthen the common Norwegian image. With regard to the foreign affairs involved here in a few chapters, such as through contact with Russia, they are, of course, more on the Northern Council now than they once were, and perhaps nothing for no more than 20 years ago, and that certainly is well. This has irreprehensiblely resulted in more life in discussions and has made it part of a more political way of dealing with them. It has been found that it is not a problem to discuss them, despite the differing systems of security or defenses and international relations of the Northern countries, the neutrality of Swaziy, and the finding, etc. Even there are ideas of taking some of the next big steps to promote normic cooperation and deepening the process. by looking more closely at common policies and the common approaches of the Northern countries in dealing with neighboring countries, on the Arctic region, etc. So, what does the future hold, or what will it hold? What do we Icelanders want? It may be most reasonable to discuss it here primarily when we exchange opinions about this at the International Parliament. I'll mention the budget again. I believe Iceland should definitely speak strongly about the lack of therapeutic cooperation, compared with any other international cooperation in which we are involved, that some special cutting - cuts are at the same time as we watch expenses are growing in many other parts of international cooperation. For us Icelanders, for our self-control countries, for Norway, and for all of us North countries, of course, I believe this is all the alone. If we look at the numbers here, I'm not entirely sure that the Icelanders will realize that this is, despite all, a total of not more than a total battery of about 16◯17 billion times. or whatever. Now I can't remember exactly where the Danish crown is, can't it be near 16 or something like that? Iceland may pay about 1% or even less now after the fall of our land production. Norway's land production has grown to such an extent that they are becoming very large in payment. That's 160 billion, then. K. I wonder if the Icelanders in general realize that we're spending such a small amount of money on the ticket, can we say? Of course, we have other costs, but what will we get back? When people look to the Norwegian teamwork and all that's on the agenda and how much it takes, I'm sure a few people on the street would think that Iceland's contribution would be only 160 million. K. Of course it's nothing. What have we done with NATO for the past few years and the headquarters there? [[To the point: Way too much.]] Way too much, hundreds of millions. K. A year in futility. Therefore, we are not to be anxious about this. On the contrary, we should place much emphasis on the fact that international cooperation will be promoted. It yields many times and in so many ways. I think it's always proved true, despite skeptics that, of course, come from time to time, e.g. In connection with the entry of Sweden and found in the European Union. At that time, many thought that it would only distance them from the Norwegian partnership, for that would be the majority of the northern countries in the EU and no interest would be found in this club in the North countries. But something else has happened during the day. [[Up front.]] So I predicted that the same thing would happen with Sweden and find what happened with Dani. Of course, they became very busy with the European Union for the first five to ten years after they entered, but they realized that the world was now not necessarily saved in Brussels and by being in the European Union and they came back, they returned home. They've been as good as any member of the Norwegian team, letting go of the last one that they've insisted on cutting in recent years. The same thing I've marked back to Finns and Sweden, it's been looking for a new balance and stability, and it's more correct to continue speaking for strong Norwegian cooperation. And they have dared to dust off such bold ideas as discussing some kind of union or union in the states of the North. It's a living debate and proposal for Forbundsstat Norden... [[The wind's alive.]] The wind lives, it's not dead, and we're supposed to speak for him. Of course, many questions remain about the exports and the like, but the cooperation of the northern countries in my mind can only be beneficial. In a global world, such a small country as Iceland has such a strong and good relationship with its neighboring countries. I think it's particularly important for the self - control zones as well as for our neighbors and the Faeroes and the Greenlandians, too, because this is in many ways their first window into the world. I'm its supporters, so they're told that they get valid participation on their own terms, on the Council of the North, but they don't have to crawl into the Northern Council with a representative on the river Dana or Find. A respectable president. It's my focus, and I just wanted to get it right and I'm not going to have time on it anymore.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u138	Mr. President. I had not intended to get involved in this discussion but only to listen to my informed partner, but I would like to say that I firmly believe in the value of Norwegian cooperation and believe that the Icelanders have very much benefit and benefit from it. Found it clearly as a minister of foreign affairs how much more important it was to Iceland to be part of the North countries. It is now, as it is now, that not all governments are concerned with the various countries, their attitude in so many fields, and which seem so clever in our communities are so amazingly similar that we could always go together, and it strengthened each one of us. I come up here mostly to confess old childhood sins, which have come back in recent years. Hv. A senator knows I'm just trying to figure out that Iceland is in all kinds of alliances. But I can tell him that although I am Europe's monopoly, I do not really have any extraordinary insoluble paradox in favor of old Scandinavian, especially as he was explained by some of the most about him in 1930 or 1940, and the fact that he was the European Union, as I am today. I just wanted to say it because I saw what it had to do with a strong flash and a flash in the eyes of a dog. A senator when he spoke of some sort, well, I don't want to put it that way, the states of the northern countries. But I believe that the idea of maintaining the cooperation of the Northern countries is something that will probably be considering the future. And my recognition and confession are that I have always been a bit attached to it and first read it from Gunnar's Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u139	Mr. President. I'm glad to hear it. A senator, despite his faith in the European Union's excellence and any desire to enter that door, is also a firm supporter of the Norwegian community. I can honestly agree with him that this does not involve any contradictions, although we may approach it in different priorities. I think history has always shown that it has been the strength of the Northern countries to have each other, and we could naturally refer to the recent experience in Iceland. Of course, even though I have to say just to keep a speaker from sleeping in that regard, in the past few years, it was the strength to have the trouble with the North countries, and perhaps not least a good relationship with Norway. The old tundra, yes, and man - made ideas and chapters have gone quite far along, such as much deeper economic cooperation in the North countries, Norway, the economic alliance. I'm sorry, guys didn't make it. And people have sometimes humorally said that the development of North American cooperation has always been a mistake, that when people went home and had not met together for defense, of course, and not for economic matters, the North American Minister's Council was thus reformed. That's how things evolved because they gave up on something else. I think it was a big mistake, I think that the North countries would have, in many ways, had a great deal of strength in all of this sea of globalisation and Europe society, or what it would be if they had already deepened their economic cooperation in a comparable way and had already done in the fields of employment markets, social and cultural issues, etc. But this idea is sometimes wooded, and a good friend of both of us, Jonas Störe Större, has sometimes pointed out that if we put our strength together, we would be the tenth largest economy in the world, the ninth, the tenth, and have regular seats in the G20s. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u140	Mr. President. I speak here, sort of, as a representative of the Kalmar Union. I always look back for centuries with no missed cause. But I must say, because of the reason. A senator speaks of coincidences in history, that I have a theory that it was almost a coincidence on either side of Iceland in its own time, so it won't be the result of all the consequences, but most people disagree with me. I'm not going to discuss this any further as far as old Scandinavian is concerned, I agree with that. A senator believes that this idea is worth more than one Mass. I believe that the more subjugated and more intensively the cooperation of the northern countries is the stronger they are. And because of what? A senator spoke of our mutual friend Jonas Störe Störe, the future prime minister of Norway, as it is true that we shared very much economic power and weight, and it would even matter to balance and peace in northern Europe that we would present ourselves with a strong contrast together. I don't want to go any further. The other one, when it's late. A senator who has known me most of the longer in these sales makes me believe in the European Union, well, I'll fall from my head every trace of stone death. I'm like a whisk. Senator, I'm just a practitioner. I think only of the European Union as a tool to get Iceland into stability. In case of a moment. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon thinks he has as good or as better a solution, I'd be willing to spend the evening with him to reason on that. Not tonight, though.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u141	Mr. President. I'm not gonna do it at all. A senator's views are not correct, and it may not be sufficient to link it in any way to religion, a practitional subject, or a solution as if it were to determine whether being in the European Union or not is a suitable interest in Iceland. I'm not making shoes. A senator approaches it in any way other than that, materially, practitioner. For the North countries together as a whole, there are many ways in which they are better off. Of course, because we were here before talking about a joint presentation in the North countries, you were, of course, on another international level that many people see the North countries as a whole and speak of the North American model and the Norwegian welfare communities, do not necessarily realize that they consist of five independent countries and three self - control areas. But it's better to do so, and I think it's good to think about keeping this open, because who knows how the world's gonna roll in the coming years and maybe the next two, three decades. We know what we have in a good Norwegian partnership, but we do not know the bad, how international politics and world affairs will develop in the next few years. I am willing to devote as long as they last, that this will be won, this will be done and some sort of alliance, economic cooperation, much deeper and stronger, it might be tempting for Iceland in various contexts, so I don't mention currency, but something else. Besides, I've always had one dream about this, such more in connection with the Norwegian fusion, if not just the Norwegian Union, that a common foreign and security policy will be adopted, and that the Swazi Neutralism and found on top.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u142	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for her speech. As noted in the report, Iceland's executive plan, known as the Góska Life Power, was central to the Norwegian cooperation of the past year. It was a great pleasure to be the head of which the environment and nature were stressed and where Reykjavík received the natural and environmental rewards of the Northern Council. The Court also said that the local community had a cooperation on water monitoring and protection and was the only capital of the Northern countries that enjoyed the privilege of providing untreated drinking water into the homes of the people. I think this link is really good for us. As also shown in the Chairman's Program of Greek Life, the North Lands are emphasised without barrier, and this is evident in the future vision of the Council of the Northern Nations. A major objective in the Norwegian partnership is to create an ideal setting for individuals and companies who want to move in freely between the northern countries. I think one important point there is also to ensure that the implementation of EU legislation does not produce new administrative barriers in the north, because when we in Iceland establish new legislation, we compare ourselves with other Northern countries and often establish our legislation on their own experience. In the case of external legislation, which may be more advanced and is from a somewhat different environment than ours, this should be taken into account. Here was a reference to only the Norwegian border barrier Council, set up on January 1, and it's done very well. There is nothing to deal with, but as we know, it is not easy to resolve these barriers, where national legislation varies in various ways. And as the report shows, there is often a lack of the will to alter legislation or to implement rules. I just want to make it clear to the councilmen in this room that we in Iceland are working well at it and that it doesn't lack interest, will and ability in our council to change this and try to coordinate the legislation of the North American countries. The report discusses the task of the North American economy, with its project EMOND, which is involved in building ecosystems'endurance and strength in an effort to improve their performance to reduce the impact of natural tears. In Iceland most of our attention is focused on volcanic eruptions and volcanoes, and I believe it is our role in the Northern Council of Iceland to represent a special protection on the Norwegian volcano site on the land that is taking care of not only of land but also of the countries around us in the use of ash rainfalls and rivers. No doubt this will have any effect on its function, but we need to make sure that the research work is somewhat stable and emphasis is placed on it, especially when volcanic eruptions are going on here. In particular, I would like to express my joy with the national seminars on the traceability and drug resistance. These issues have been very focused on the Norwegian nations, and since I'm on the top of the Northern Council's welfare committee, drug resistance has been introduced to our table. I just asked you a question to the highest level. Healthcare Minister Kristunns, Þór of Júlíusson, of drug resistance in this country, and his answer was that it was very well followed up in the country, monitored for it. Then I might have been getting a little out of my room for lunch. I was in a class yesterday, where I was studying Icelandic agriculture with students at the Women's School in Reykjavík, where there were many questions about agriculture and cooking, how might we work to reduce food waste? The students were particularly eager to hear about their vision and what they would like to do to reduce the waste of food. In order to prevent it, cooperation has been focused on reducing food consumption for several years and this country includes Projects involved in creating a network in the North to counteract food waste and increase education and to strengthen people's awareness, of which the project, of course, begins by teaching people. Food waste has negative effects on natural resources, financial and environment. It only appeared three, four days ago, where it may have been said that a camp did not plan well enough for shopping, and it would also affect the production of food in this country and actually do so. In 2013, Juul Selina received the Council of Nature and Environmental Prize, the year before Reykjavíkurburg, for her fight against food waste, which established the consumer movement called the Station waste for food and is the spokesman for the movement. She writes articles, she teaches people, shows them up on television and on radio to create awareness of the current eating habit, for eating is not only a problem of money but also a moral problem, for we are many in this world that we are supposed to work together to reduce the amount of food we eat. I also rejoice that we will be given this opportunity later this year to host the Northern Council's major Council in this country. By the way, I think it's pretty clear in the report what has won. I want to, like others here, to thank the office very much for the work she has suggested, because without it, I don't think we in Iceland would be as well equipped as we really do.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u143	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a report on the work of the Norwegian Minister. I want to thank you in the beginning. Minister of Harðardóttir Hardydó for her report and her conduct and work last year being presiding for the Norwegian Minister. The report presents the work that has been done and the highest. A minister has explained them. I personally came into the Council of Northern America, which is the other side of the Northern Community community, into what is related to the council, last year, but Iceland is now leading the Northern Council. I don't think I need to give a long talk about being one of those who have always supported normatic cooperation and feel that it is extremely important and really important that we follow it closely, make use of the links there, and the speciality that the North countries have. It is also a joy to see that the cooperation has increased between the Norwegian Minister and the Council of Northern Ireland. Now there's a Norwegian Minister's Office much bigger than the Council of Northern Ireland, there's an office in Copenhagen for both of these parties and in the same house probably over 100 people, if I know the right thing. We have about 15 of them at the Northern Council. It has also been a pleasure to observe that there are strong ministers in the litigators'groups of people working together. While I was a minister, I always stressed being at that meeting, I think it's extremely important to cultivate this cooperation, and it seems to me that it's being followed closely. People can do quite a lot of fun things if they follow through. At the same time, the National Council has been working with the changed form, and indeed this stringing together, working through careful reports and taking a case on a program where individuals, known former advisers, in both cases I'm going to mention, are assigned to report. On the one hand, there is a report on foreign affairs won by Thordom of Stoltenberg and returned in 2011 that I think, and then Bo Könberg, former Swedish health and social ministers, returned a report last year. Since both reports were in the stream of time, all the northern countries were consulted and brought out the focus that is most important in cooperation. I have formally rejoiced with the cooperation and suggestions it has made. 14 recommendations for health and health care were offered. By means of their colleagues in the North countries, health ministers have already taken the lead in carrying out some of them, and the Norwegian Minister has put money into it. They are exemplary and important. It involves cooperation in various areas where the strength of the northern countries can be used, i.e. if they all stick together. There are few people who benefit more than Icelanders to be in such cooperation where we are in cooperation with some 25 million territories, with a population of about 330,000. What has been discussed in the Norwegian partnership last year, and is one of the projects that the Norwegian Ministers must handle, as well as the Northern Council, are linked to the general public, i.e. How we can introduce our public witnessing work to the people so that they can see the importance of this work. Often, it is a little far from the decision taken to individual citizens in the northern part of the world. There, the Norwegian budget has been important. They have a birthday this year, and they plan to celebrate it with them, which is exactly one of the factors in the Presidential Programme of the European Commission, the Presidential Programme, to promote the general budget of the Northland. Although I'm here to name the Norwegian budget, there are an enormous number of societies, such as all kinds of unions, unions, and others who work in the Norse field and play a prominent part in them. One thing that has been proclaimed about the Norwegian house in Reykjavík is that of holding the so - called colkemöde, or political festival, already established in the North countries. There are summer celebrations where politicians and various interest organizations meet together for celebrations and presentations and discussions that highlight that politicians get out and give opportunities for conversation both formal and conversation. In many parts of the North countries, this will be held in many parts of the country, and hopefully the trend here will be for people to bring it to a more permanent celebration, which will then be held in the country, and they will use part of their vacation to be at such a festival. This festival is scheduled in the Lord's Evening Meal at 11,◯13. June, next. One of the major projects that have already been mentioned here is the work on harmonizing projects on various law columns, for although we are in the Norwegian partnership and humans are working very closely together, some of the northern countries of the European Union. It's always coming up, because we haven't coordinated the legislation in the North countries, border or administrative barriers where conflicts will be carried out. It has not particularly affected certain social issues, such as disability payments, maternity or birth strength, etc. An entire book has been released and a specific border barrier tool has been developed to work on it, and this is one of the projects we have to work on in the near future. I encourage the co-worker, chief. Minister of Eygló Harðardóttir to work hard at it. I know that in the lead of this border barrier council, Siv Friðleifsdóttir, who knows this sect very well and is powerful in this regard. One of the findings mentioned in the report in the Swedish Presidency Programme was the marketing of the northern countries, the introduction to what has been called the national logo, i.e. ...of the Northernlands. It has called attention to what may have been strengthened, especially since collapse, the extent of the international scale, whether it is equal to social or social issues, in most countries. They have come to realize that the northern countries such as this have become known to the Norwegian model, and the question is, How do we make use of it? What I've been worried about, however, is whether the Icelandic government really wants to be with the Norwegian model. When I say this, it's because when you look at the unique characteristics of the North American model that has developed a transpolitical community, there are a number of factors, such as social rights, that is equal and equal - and I'm not gonna question the current government's will to follow it up - and the social right of individuals. It is also a public service and equal access to health and hospital services, education and custom services for special groups and income-related social guarantees. Then it is the natural role of democracies and the importance of the role of the State and its trust and confidence in the highly important government and the low corruption that are involved in protecting ourselves as the land that fights corruption and struggles to be known in the world for little corruption. That's where we need to be. At the same time, the financial share is, of course, an open economy, but there are high taxes and high public expenses, high cohesion consumption in all the North countries, and there is solidarity in the North countries. I feel that the present government is going out of it by reducing the consumption and I'm talking about the whole thing, I'm not accusing the highest. On the contrary, a minister here has a report on the challenge. But that's where we have to protect ourselves. Official investments in research and education are enormously high in all these institutions. There is active cooperation between pay and collective contracts in cooperation with the government. It is an active European labour market, and there is also the need to protect regional politics, etc. There are a lot of things that have marked the North countries and have helped them through difficulties and that they have the strength that they feel the current government is working against, not in form or word, but in effect. I encourage the cooperation ministers of the northern countries to take good care of this and to participate in the discussion of where we would like to share a meal. What do we want as a joint service? Do we want the State to be responsible and to represent the social service, especially health care, hospital service, and education? I want that message clear. Thus, Iceland with all pride can be part of the North American model, strengthen us through the good brands of the Northern countries, be a powerful economic area in which all the nations stand together, continue to lead the world for the powerful welfare and welfare services and, as well as the top order, as we have been in the past few years, in equal rights and human rights. This is the brand I want to see the Icelandic people have and are supported by the Norwegian countries. We tend to go in that direction: We want to lower taxes, move more to the individual, reduce the amount of alcohol we consume. In fact, the government works after the bread - craze theory, which is the opposition of the North American model, to reduce taxes, to increase individual decision making, to increase the cost of individuals because of self - spending. This isn't the North American model. It is a liberalism from the United States and part of Britain and other parts of the world. I wanted to get it to the discussion, as much support as I am. This is not to be replaced by a right course or a liberal policy in the Northern States. It's going out of the Norwegian model to what we've least wanted, as the American system is even. In health and education. Just at the end. There are other warning signs that we need to take into account regarding the northern community. We've seen that the Norwegian situation has been yielding in Iceland. I'm told that now almost no one is studying to Danish schools. We find it in the Norwegian team that the need for interpretation services is increasing. In itself, I have no comment on the use of Icelandic cohesion because we have made a commitment to interpret and interpret between the Northern languages, but it would be a great return if the Norwegian partnership went to English. That's why I think we need to strengthen ourselves in maintaining the status of the Norse case, especially because again, you can say, they are taking on increased education in the North. Over a period of time, the United States, Germany, and Britain had traveled extensively. It was then expensive for humans to take advantage of schools in public schools in the North countries to use much less money or even no school fees, thus using their education systems and still doing so. There is the largest number of high school students, especially Denmark and Sweden. I think we should consider that in addition to Icelandic, we'll want the Icelandic kids to learn a lot of languages, Northern languages, except English and any other language, whether Spanish, French, or anything else. I want to thank you for your report, and thank you very much. Minister of staff for very good work. I watched her activities and other ministers at the Council of the Northern Council in Stockholm, and I could be proud of the majority of the ministers there. I didn't have any comment, and I was proud to be on top of it. Secretary of staff.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u144	A respectable president. I'd like to thank you very much for the discussion of the report and the discussions of Norwegian cooperation last year. So I briefly go through what was presented in various languages in this discussion, I can totally agree with the importance of international cooperation in the North countries. I myself am relatively recently back to New York at the United Nations Women's Committee for Women's Meeting, where the Northern States would arrive, we had a meeting, and we had a common event. It's very pronounced, as in equality, how well the North countries work together, and what we agree on these issues. We also feel that when we take advantage of ourselves, we are truly listened to, even though each of us, not just Iceland, is considered to be a small country on a global scale. This, I think, may have confirmed what my former teacher, who recently fell away, Ingjaldur Hannibalsson, spoke about when I learned his international markets. He said that at least his experience with international cooperation would be that those who were best prepared when they arrived at meetings and prepared to express themselves are often those who might have the greatest impact on how things were eventually made, but not necessarily how many lived in the land of that country. This, however, helps when we also apply ourselves by putting money on matters that we feel are important. Another point that was mentioned here, too, was that I felt very much in my discussion last year, as we were studying normatic cooperation, the work of the Norwegian Minister, and the way the world, can be said, experience us, and what we're going to be doing. What is so important in my opinion, and I stressed it very much on all the opportunities I got, is a connection to the public. It mentioned that we had been cutting into the Norwegian partnership. The conclusion now remains that we have no intention of continuing to do so, and we have reduced the plans that were previously planned. But if people, the people of the northern countries we work for, if the citizens do not personally feel the importance of Norwegian cooperation, how important it is every day for our possibilities and the opportunity to make the North countries even stronger and even better, they will break away from the north. Therefore, it is so important that we make it known with all the possible ways that we have as politicians who participate in the Norwegian cooperation that we let know of all the good work we do and do - and I truly believe that we are making progress in the vision of the future that I have - it should be as easy to move from Reykjavík to Stockholm as from Reykjavík to Hafnarfjörður. This is a big thing. But we work together in business, we work together in education, and here we were given the tremendous opportunities we have had to pursue education in the North countries. I don't think it's really possible to put a price on the knowledge it has given to an Icelandic community. This is what we must continue to communicate. It was also mentioned in the language of which. paritaprevir Guðbjartur Hannesson, I think I'm sure I remember correctly, that this summer is going to have a celebration comparable to the Almedals week, it's going to be the first wand in it to have our own Almedals week, which is originally a festival in Sweden but can be found now in Denmark, Norway and Finland, and at last in Iceland too. It was a great pleasure to have the National Ministers especially able to support the festival, and I really hope that all members of the council and all those who are deeply involved in politics and all who are interested in the community, working in free communities, within the cultural sector, in every business of society, will come and discuss the kind of community we want in Iceland. It's the thought of the Almdals week that people can have an intermediate conversation about how we want to have our community. Then I'd also like to recall that we, the Norwegian colleagues, were contacted by some of the world's major experts in what is called the "Truthing" or the image of the world, Simon Anholt. He brought a really strong message into that meeting. He simply said, "You can't buy an image, you can't just make it up somehow. " If we want to have a positive image, we just need to keep on being what we are, North American. That would be the best way to communicate. Be even more Norwegian, was the message. That means in my mind that we want even more North American cooperation, because that's one of the things that makes the North countries as good as they are or that they're as good communities as I think they are. One of the points discussed here was a difference between the northern countries. And you're right. When it comes to creating good communities, we have been successful, but we have not necessarily done so in the same way. Although the Arctic well - being model or the North American model are spoken of by a variety of people, both those who live here and especially those who look at us from outside, it was very clear, for example. in the ELA report, which I mentioned in my previous speech and answers and discussed at the meeting of the labour service ministers, that the North countries have chosen different routes. For example, when talking about the traditional Arctic welfare models, they may apply primarily to Norway, Sweden, and Denmark as long as Iceland and Finland stand out as different. I think it is also interesting to watch various political priorities in building the welfare systems, but all these countries have achieved success and have produced good communities for their citizens. In view of the anxiety shown in the matter of both. paritaprevir The Guðbjartur son of Hannesson - and I thought it would be fun if it got a little political into the debate about Norwegian cooperation -- I think it's unnecessary, it just reflected in our emphasis right now, e.g. to the budget, that we've been putting very much and more money on the exact welfare business, to the health system, to the education system and into social security, social security. And if it's Norwegian, I think we can say that Iceland and I share it in common with other northern nations to want to have a powerful welfare system. I would then like to agree that there is concern about seeing a decrease in interest in the Norwegian languages. I've taken up the matter with a minister of education, and now a decision has been made to appoint a special class for training on the other hand, on the other hand, the interpretation and the future of study interpretation at the University of Iceland. To me, it is priceless to have learned Danish in middle school and then learned at a Swedish university. You can feel how good this is, and I think it's very important that we make sure that our young ones have a chance to learn the Norwegian language. It's useful to the whole nation, these are our cousins and closest colleagues, and it's good to work in Norwegian cooperation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u145	V.E.G. President. All I wanted to do was respond to the politics. That's right, I've mentioned political issues in the Northern Union and where we're going. That's exactly what's going on in the Northern Council, so I think people thought it would be strong to, for example, take up some foreign business for a discussion. It is also talking about the review committee there, trying to get more suggestions from the groups. Where there has to be an identifying characteristic of the Norwegian team, we may lead a case to a conclusion that did not result from learning during this council. It is also one of the special features that humans can be running minor governments, such as in the North countries and finding a solidarity, finding ways. There must always be respect for the smaller parts because the world is not so simple that if one reaches 51% more, it can go about as simple as being alone. This is not said to reduce the importance of Norwegian cooperation, on the contrary. I think this is important if you keep it in mind that we can find a solution. That's why I say about both health and education: Don't go into that sort of elimination or lose it to what's at risk, that we get a double system. That's the opposition to the Norwegian model. I think the highest. Minister agrees with me that we don't want American health systems. That's why my warning was to the highest. Ministers from the North Sea report: Let's pull ourselves together so that we don't lose the characteristics we want to keep. That doesn't mean we're going to do the same for all the North countries. But we have human rights, equalities, democratic friends. We have this skill, or we have to wear it to solve it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u146	A respectable president. I hope so. paritaprevir Guðbjartur Hannesson did not take what I said as criticism. I'm very happy to have the political introductory debate on the Norwegian partnership. I've given this particular attention in all our work last year to increase the politicians in the work of the Norwegian Ministers because politics is just what we want to have our community. We need to talk about it and not be afraid to cope. You've seen in the Council of the Northland that men have begun to vote. It was kind of a taboo that cases were made to stink, like a ooze. A senator said, in a democratic way, different opinions on high political issues. Some have claimed that the so - called Konsensus-sized prince, which includes the need for all to agree within the Ministry Committee, is a measure of cooperation. I don't think so, but I think it's very important that people express different opinions and then try to talk down on certain conclusions. As for the situation in this country, I think we all agree on the importance of our well-being. It is true, however, that this government has not titled itself in the same way as the previous government. Although, if people are not only looking at the words or what they call themselves, I think we can certainly agree that we have certainly emphasized the need to add more money to the welfare and education system, and that is something that I think really north. I think that if we Northlanders meet, for example, Americans, we all think it's weird that they don't want health insurance, as seems to be half that country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u147	V.E.G. President. In order to end this, it's a pleasure to hear that we can agree that, of course, we should be Polish without trying to create a conflict, we should try to get along. We're discussing health and education matters, and I'm not making any disagreements about who spends more or spends more money on that. What I think is important to me is what I mentioned. It's the combination. It's been dropped by us in the past few years because of the collapse. Now we're getting the land production up. The level of drinking is getting smaller and is almost down in the United States and Britain. We're not going up yet, although it would be nice to see the readings. For health care, one thing is positive about what the current government has published is that it wants to become comparable to the North countries. Then we are talking about a few dozen billion dollars in our health system, in proportion to our land production, the amount of money we have divided. What's interesting in the Norwegian partnerships, and it's also very important, it's just in the Northern Council as it has been, and in part here at the council, is the freedom of speech groups that are even small groups, that is far beyond the percentage of members of Congress. In a special discussion, there are two of the Pirates, just as many as from the advance, a large number of members of the Parliament. This court is highly respected by the National Council and important. But he has to go further, he needs to be careful. It's not at the top. A minister here to answer the charges, but considering how many other groups have been refused to have cross - white partnerships on many major issues. That's a warning sign in a community.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-19-82.u148	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir His speech, or reply, was greatly appreciated by the Guðbjartur - given son of Hannesson. When the senator comes here talking about the thought of the North American model and that a certain percentage of the combination is the label that we're talking about the North American welfare problem, I just have to object. I know exactly what to do. A senator may not have meant it directly and that he knows better than that, for he already had. A senator was a health minister, and with health care himself, international figures were received in measuring quality, e.g. Health care in Iceland It was found that although we had one of the cheapest health systems in the OECD states, we were in the highest seats when we saw the results, to form when there was a breast cancer survival or a percentage in the case of child mortality. In my mind, not always the solution or the key to negative well - being is that we put as much money as possible in things, but that we will achieve the results we are seeking. What I like so much about meeting other ministers in the Ministers' Committees of the North and Council at a meeting at the Council of the Northland can be found that even if we can debate a certain way, the values, the Norwegian values, and the viewpoints on what is truly similar. That's what we're based on, and that's what we find when we work together. I mentioned the ancient minister of equality, and for example, we can meet at a half hour meeting, where we briefly review our priorities, then we turn, and we face a very close meeting with representatives of the world's largest international institutions, and we agree. [[The president calls.]] We agree on the emphasis. [[The president calls.]] It is based on notic cooperation.
