ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-20-53.u1	The President of the United States says: I have decided, according to the proposal of Prime Minister, that the Council shall meet on Tuesday, January 20, 2015. One-thirty-thirty-thirty. Visit sites, January 14th, 2015. Ólafur Ragnar Grímsson. Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson. Presidential Letters for the Council to meet for an extended meeting. I offer the highest. President and second o'clock. Senators welcome back to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-20-53.u2	Thank you very much. Prime Ministers are welcome. I'll tell you what. All council members welcome to winter council after Christmas break and wish them and the Allied officers a happy year, and thank you for your cooperation over the past year.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-20-53.u3	Tómas Árnason, former general and minister, died on Christmas Eve. In the year 92 C.E. Tómas Árnason was born in Hásarves, on July 21, 1923, at Sufjörður. His parents were Guðrún Þorvarðardóttir, the daughter of a housewife, and Árni Williamsdsson, a Vilhjálmsson of feeding, later the Erindre of Iceland's Fish Society. Tómas began his 16 - year - old study at the Public School of the Days, and later, in 1949, at the High School of Education, Thomas completed a school of Education. He was at high school at Harvard Law School, U.S.A., 1951,1952, and finished a test in international sales. The district attorney, he became 1950, and he became a high court attorney in 1964. During formative years and up until his age, Tómas was a zealous athlete and a lifetime, up until the end of the year, enjoyed outings and wholesome movements. At the end of school here, in 1949, Tómas began running a seminary office in Akureyri, but he was also an experienced teacher at the high school there, as well as an assistant and journalist at Day. In 1953 Tómas moved to Reykjavík, where he became the head of the Ministry of Defense at her office, in 1960. He then went back to language, but he became a four - year executive of the time. Following his administration and a new community system, Tómas became one of the Commission directors of the State from 1972 to 1978 and again from 1983 to the end of 1984 when he was appointed head of the Bank of Congress of Iceland. That's why he had a job retirement in 1993. At a young age, Tómas Árnason became a team member, like many of his brothers in the East, where the strength of the party was the strongest. He served as a member of the Akureyri Party, and he served as a candidate for him in the County of Eyjafjörður during the 1953 General election, became a deputy and first took up residence at the General Assembly at the beginning of 1956. He was thus president of the age among the former members of the council at his death. He was then serving for a council in the North Mola County and the Eastern District and spent full air at a council as a deputy until he was a permanent member of the 1974 election. He spent ten years at the General Assembly until the end of 1984, a total of 22 of which were held. While at the General Assembly, and some time earlier, Tómas Árnason was the head of his class and became minister of his ways, first secretary of finance of 1978-697, and then secretary of the trade in 1980-1983. During his long official and political career, Tómas had many committees and advice in preparation for new legislation, or other projects, often attending international meetings and conventions and speaking the language of the Icelanders. At the General Assembly, he was the most concerned with economic and employment, national interests and, especially, foreign and military issues. He was chairman of the State Department when he gave up Congress. Tómas Árnason was a successful man who wanted to help progress everywhere. He had a stable uncle's garden east of the country, deep roots there, learned, and enjoyed the history of the people in those parts, and had their best interests at heart. He was approachable in his dealings, tactful, and a man of rich humor. For these reasons, as well as for their honesty and duty, Tómas was entrusted with important work for his day, both as an elected representative and an appointed official. All of that, he did well. I ask councilmen and councilmen to remember the son of Tómas the Árnason by rising from their seats. - [[Senators rose from seats.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-20-53.u4	Hv. All council members. There's a busy time ahead. The General will deal with big issues and important issues during the spring and winter conventions. I also remind you of the viewpoint I presented at my last Christmas break meeting that it is important that anyone in the Senate can organize their work and projects in accordance with the approved schedule and trust that it is not removed except in exceptional circumstances. I continued to look for good cooperation with the government and the members of Congress on that subject. This year there is a turning point in the history of a council and a nation. On June 19, next, 100 years have passed since Icelandic women were elected to the Generals. The Administrative Committee has taken the initiative of many events during the birthday year, as well as for women, communities, schools, choirs, and museums each year. It is proposed that the Council will remember the election's anniversary with a solemn assembly meeting on Friday, June 19. Then will be the opening of a presentation at the General Assembly Hall on the occasion of the birthday and will be open on Saturday, June 20. At the same time, the Generals Web site will open the sacred anniversary. I would like to reiterate my gratitude to all members of the council for their contributions to the council at the fall council and hope that we may succeed in the latter part of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-20-53.u5	Borist has received a letter from the procurator of the Independence Party Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir for Haraldur Benediktsson, 4th. Witchest. "I'm not going to be able to do Congress any time soon. Today, then, at the Second Council, a deputy of the Independence Party is taking up residence in the district, Sigurður Örn Ágústsson. The first deputy in the district has announced a fallout. The letter of Sigurður Örn Ágústsson has already been investigated and agreed, but he has not previously taken his place in the Council, so his commitment to the Constitution is to be signed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-20-53.u6	Sigurður Örn Ágústsson has signed a solemn pledge to the Constitution and is welcome to serve at the General Assembly. Borist has a letter from the 3rd. Smoke. N., the daughter of Katrín, of Jakobsdóttir's daughter that she is unable to attend a congregation meeting in the near future. So today, at General 1st, a deputy on the left of the movement is on the list of green bids in the district of Björn Valur Gíslason. Björn Valur Gíslason has once sat at the General Assembly and is invited to serve again. Then the president wants to suggest that Sigríður Á. Andersen remains a substitute instead of Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, 1st. Smoke. So, she doesn't attend a conference next time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-20-53.u7	Borist has announced a change in the management of the Agency's forwarding party. Þórunn Egilsdóttir has been elected president of the Party, Ásmundur Daðason of Vice President and Director Willum Þór Þórsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-20-53.u8	The chairman of the Council has received another announcement from the Congress of the House for the change of men in the committees, such as Article 16. Congress. Lára Arnardóttir takes up Þórunn Egilsdóttir as the head of the welfare committee, and Vigdís Hauksdóttir takes his place, Magnúsdóttir Magnúsótir as the chief member of the Commission and Control Board. This change will be considered without vote if no protests are made.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-20-53.u9	Three letters have been sent from the Department of Internal Affairs where request is made in order to provide written answers to the application form. 660, about torture, from Birgitta Jónsdóttir, to ask for a spell. 674, with members of the Ministry and with members and institutions, from Jón Þór Ólafsson and a request for a letter. 796, on collection boxes and lottery machines, from my son Algmund Jónasson. There have been three letters from the Department of Professional Road and Neoplasms asking for every request to give written answers to the application for your application. 446, on the cost of land activation and the scope of work in connection with possible sea cable repairs, from Ásmundur Friðriksson, a request for cover. 704, for whaling and for the value of whale meat and use, from Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter and for the icicle. 709, on market division and competition in a day-to-day store, from Steingrímur J. Sigfússon. Three letters have been sent from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs asking for every request in order to provide written answers to the application form. 652, on the property and income of the people of the land, from the Árni Páll the son of Árnason, to the question of threshing. 716, on monitoring the implementation of growth and insurance laws, from Jón Þór Ólafsson and the application of the letter. 708, on legalization of the rules of financing self-finance, from Steingrímur J. Sigfússon. Borist has received a letter from the Ministry of Education and Culture asking for every request in order to give a written answer to a letter on the spell. 650 on the income and credit market of students, from Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-20-53.u10	Consider: Prime Ministers, financial and economic minister, health minister, social and housing minister, marine eco-efficiency, environmental and resource ministers, and foreign ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-20-53.u11	A respectable president. I would like to begin my case with requests of the highest order. The president and members of the council for the year's joy. In these last days, a contract with doctors has been established. How happy it is that our primary obligation to ensure the peace of work and the effectiveness of the public health system to be open to all Icelanders, regardless of their economic situation! However, the Treaty raises questions, especially in the light of some conflicting declarations by government ministers following its procedure. The agreement is superior to what is expected in Iceland's Continental Chairmans for future collective agreements and, of course, creates expectations for comparable dressbacks in large groups of women, such as nurses with better paid jobs in other countries, just as doctors do. Hospitals are as useless without doctors as they are without nurses. Similarly, low - income workers look to the extent that they may be exposed to considerable compensation. Since its arrival, the government's tax changes have been the primary target of low - income changes. V.E.G. Department of Social Affairs has said that there is more room for the level of money than for the conditions published by the Sustainer. V.E.G. On the contrary, the secretary of finance has said that the limit is 3.5%, as the late bat has given up. V.E.G. Prime Minister has often talked about the importance of self - improvement for low - paying employees. That's why I want to ask the highest. Prime Minister: Does he agree with a social minister or secretary of finance on conditions that would lay the groundwork for human agreements today? Is there room for an increase of more than 3.5% or not?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-20-53.u12	A respectable president. Before I come to answer a good question, why? I must first present a slight correction. It's so wrong, as a matter of course. On the contrary, a senator claimed earlier that the tax system changes, remuneration changes, and things that the government has attacked were mainly bitten on the underpayers. It has especially been considered to improve the status of people with intermediate income and less income, making the necessary changes. A senator gave himself over. About what question? A senator, whether or not I agree with the highest estimate. Secretary of the budget or the highest. Minister of Social Affairs, it's easy to say, I agree with both ministers' judgements. I agree with the financial secretary's opinion that it is important that these collective agreements be negotiated in a way that would result in a loss of trust in stability and a real gain in buying out money, a real dressback. I also agree with the social minister's opinion that there is room to increase pay. This is a question of how it will be done in the most reasonable way. I've talked about it, both in the labour market and out in public discussion, that you have to get out of focusing on percentages because if you focus on percentages, and that the same percentage increase should reach the entire scale, it's not likely to be effective in the future agreements. Therefore, it would be more wise to look at centenarians and consider continuing to improve the interests of middle-and-low payers, as has been the case with the administration of this government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-20-53.u13	A respectable president. If the raise of crowns is on, not everyone will get 3.5%; the lowest paid people will get more and the average earner. V.E.G. Then the prime minister is making a statement that the average carotte workers will not expect any compensation in the coming labour agreement, and that will not be understood otherwise. Is he to say, in other words, that nurses, which include average income groups rather than low - income groups, are not in line with what the doctors have received today? Nor can he overlook the fact that changes in the tax system in the fall brought the greatest benefit in the highest paid income groups. The benefits were greatly mistaken. I must ask the highest. Prime Minister: What is the total amount of money available to buy? Is that more than 3.5%? If it's 3.5%, it's obvious that he's here to announce, by a dollar raise, that there's no compensation for the future wage contracts.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-20-53.u14	A respectable president. I'm not saying that average earners are not meant to get a bargain in future agreements. On the contrary, I specifically stated that it is just as important to keep on trying to improve the interests of average earners as do people with less income. I'm glad to hear it. A senator has renewed his definition of middle-employers and high-priests, but in the recent discussions of government debt correction, all those with average government officials, for example, people in BHM or BSRB, suddenly became high-payers in the opinion of the government, and began to accept special support as high - paying employees. It's a good thing it's been corrected and corrected. A senator has again come to view average cartels as average earners. It will be an important challenge in future labour agreements to make room for the benefits of these people and, of course, those with less income than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-20-53.u15	A respectable president. I'd like a conquistador of the United States and President of a happy year. It may not be necessary to review long ago how much riots occurred here at the council and among the nation when the government suddenly entered the council with a suggestion to break off the European Union's meeting with a promise that both classes had made that the nation had come to a vote to decide whether the discussion would be continued. This proposal could be a great opposition, and I hoped that the entire assembly and the people, the people, would learn from the battle that this great issue, part of the European Union, and continuation of the discussions with the European Union, would have to result in a positive outcome. I'm going to have less time to get to the top. The secretary of finance said in all the Havari that it was obvious that this case would be concluded with the people's approach, just as both sides said in the campaign. So after listening to interviews, I'm a little surprised. Secretary of state and supreme. The prime minister where I hear they say they want to come back in here with a suggestion to end the European accordion talk and not allow the nation to decide on the big issue and to compromise all the promises. I'd like to know who the highest attitude is. There is a secretary of finance, and whether he and his class cannot be sure that their voice will become the voice of reason and try to direct it in a more upbuilding way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-20-53.u16	Mr. President. This will take up a very large subject in this question period, which is about Iceland's position on the European Union and the official status of the Member State's application. Everyone who has been monitoring my progress in this matter over the years knows that I voted against applying for involvement in the European Union and covering a group that wants to keep Iceland outside the European Union. It's our course. I supported the last year's proposal here at the council, as well as the minister of foreign law that it was shown, that the application of the Member States would be restored. [[Up front.]] What is characteristic of the discussion today and perhaps from a recent year onward is that it is all about the form, how we should present the will of more of the council. I am impressed that Iceland has the formal position of an application state when it is established that the government has no plans to continue the discussion, has solved the negotiation groups, and is not on its policy list to join the European Union. I am impressed that the government wants to do this and to vote for it at the council. What would it matter in itself to get the conclusion that the talk was not to be terminated? Or if the government took the stand not to go to a discussion, when it has been established that it is not going to take up the discussion? The only thing that would do is that the matter would remain in unsolved and Iceland as a formal application state, which is in my mind a complete formality, in fact, Iceland is not in any part of the Memberal phase, not in any discussion of entrance into the European Union. For the more part in the future, make up a government that plans to enter the European Union, within its own terms, to apply and complete such activities. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-20-53.u17	A respectable president. I'm going to be all alone to celebrate the ultimate. The minister of finance is not absolutely in the declaration that the proposal is soon to end the discussion. He's a spaghetti tiger. I'm not gonna use this time to discuss the pros and defects of involvement. It is a future policy that we have a good deal in the European Union. We want to finish the discussion and let the nation take sides on the deal. It says in the government covenant that the talk will be interrupted and that the discussion will continue only with the exception of national law. It is not in the government covenant that the discussion is to be terminated. The government groups did not say in the campaign that they were going to end the discussion. Therefore, the government groups have no authority to end the discussion, and if the government parties are going to end the discussion without asking the nation, they will be at least. to accept the commission of the General election. I think it's obvious. I hope to the highest. The secretary of finance sees and knows that this matter will understandably meet great opposition if it enters the council. [[The president calls.]] You can find upbuilding solutions.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-20-53.u18	Mr. President. I will not speak for a foreign minister who is going to make the suggestion and is fully able to answer for whether and when it will appear, but it has been in the Constitution since the fall and I expect it to appear within a few days. It was long claimed that he wanted to choke all discussions about the European Union, he would not allow the matter to be discussed. That was how many years passed. Then, the left groups come here and form more parts at the council and take the case on a formal basis, putting it on schedule. It is not a matter of material content. It must be discussed. I called for material discussions on what it means to walk in the European Union. And when we discuss whether Iceland has a better place outside the European Union or outside the EU, I think that the waves are only slowing down in this society, when the material discussion of this matter is actually done, not about form, of wanting to produce a deal and to see what it is coming to see. As for the policy that Iceland stays outside the European Union, we are not afraid of this material discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-20-53.u19	A respectable president. Recently, the editor of the magazine Charlie Hebdo, in Paris, is thought to have been the cause of the attack, among other things, of the publication of the Múhameð Muhadad. U.S.A.A.L.A.A.Assalama állai nas Recently at the Synod, Iceland's bishop's proposal was adopted to declare support for the Common Proclamation of Prison punishment for expression. It consists of two basics on our part, one that decomposes imprisonment in the expression of various opinions and the other as a decapitation of 125. general penalties, one of which obligatoryly obligatoryly obliges the obligatory teaching or worship of a legal society here on earth. In a paper with the proposal proposed by Iceland's bishop for the requested council, Presidential permission: ▪ Bishop agrees with Porta's view of legislation that imposes freedom of expression in this way does not meet modern standards of human rights. I wanted to ask the highest. Prime Minister whether he agrees with the pyramids and the bishops on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-20-53.u20	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for filming this case here. Although I do not always agree with people in all matters, I have long felt that there is something to their emphasis on freedom of expression and the importance of defending it. I'm sure it's a matter of review of the law as a matter of course. A senator asks about, but then it is also appropriate to bear in mind that at the time of the law given, similar laws have been passed on to other laws, such as what to do and what to not do. I think I should consider that in context of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-20-53.u21	A respectable president. V.E.G. The prime minister is likely referring to articles designed to fight so - called hatred propaganda, e.g. 233. gr. a general penal law, if I recall correctly, but this is mainly the 125th par. a general penal law, as follows, by permission of the President: ▪ Any who publicly admire or reproach religious doctrines or worship a legal society in this country will be guilty or imprisoned for up to 3 months. A case should not be appealed, except for the prosecuting of the prosecutor. The bill for this article in particular has two articles, and they are as follows, a respected president: 1st par. 125. g. The law goes away. 2.g. This law has already been valid. Of course, in discussing the background of hatred propaganda, there are many things about mind that are the highest. The prime minister points out correctly, and it is very important that we take that discussion. This is, however, an article that involves, not hate propaganda, but simply ridicule, simply ridicule with religion. [[The president calls.]] So we suggest that she be taken away, and I ask the highest. Prime Minister, with the warning that there is a law on hatred propaganda here, whether he is not in favor of having a legitimate joke.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-20-53.u22	A respectable president. Sounds like it's still happening. A senator that we are in a similar area in these matters, and we both acknowledge that despite the importance of defending our freedom of expression, of course, certain limits are placed on how far we can go, e.g. in weighing people for various reasons. Hv. A senator speaks specifically of hatred propaganda, and I reiterate what I said earlier, and I agree with him that it has to be in law to limit what humans can say. There are then, and there are many, who claim that this version is the best version. A senator specifically asked about, the French magazine Charlie Hebdo, that was a very gross hatred propaganda, and as a result, it is only natural to wonder, as it were. In fact, a senator himself wonders about this discussion, what is hate propaganda, and what is not.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-20-53.u23	President. During the last terms, little more was discussed, at least on the part of the existing government opposition, than on economic growth, of their low interest rate and the need to increase economic growth and value in the land. In recent years, statistics, such as 5◯7%, were referred to as the need for annual economic growth in Iceland to be between 51.77%. Everything else would just be unacceptable. By the end of the season and, in fact, most of the term period, economic growth in this country was said to be so small from the collapse that it would have to be reduced to freezing goals, and economic wheels and valuables needed to be restored. But what happens next? In the first full year of the right control, i.e. 2014, when the government works for its first budget, economic growth is measured in the first nine months of 0.5%. This is a tenth part of it and even less as they themselves felt it would be necessary during the last terms, the tenth part of it. And in the historical context, the annual change in interest between those years, i.e. During the first quarter of 2013 to the end of 2014, there is never more in the 2009 crash year and in 2010 than in the year 2009. This is the greatest annual change in economic growth. That's why I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister: Has he learned from these figures, the conclusion of Iceland's Hausp Office, that the government failed to establish interest in the country and increase its value? Do the Ministers agree with The Haustabours and the Secret Bank, the World Bank and Others, that the alarms of the economy in Iceland have begun to ring, and that's pretty impressive? [[The president calls.]] Finally: What measures will the right categories of government take to reverse this trend? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-20-53.u24	A respectable president. It is a pleasure to be able to rejoice. A senator and hopefully calmed him down by pointing out that it has already been observed that it has likely been a failure in the numbers referred to that will be corrected when the year in general and economic growth, just as predicted, will become significant in 2014 and, in fact, 2015 as well as in most other European countries. Worried. A candidate for interest in Iceland is therefore absolutely unnecessary. With regard to alarm alarms as long as possible. A senator says that the sound of Haguems, Secret Bank, and the World Bank will be agggravated. A senator explaining more what he owns. That's what I'm talking about. A senator to talk about the danger of filing, and if so, how does that compare with worrying? A senator because there was no economy?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-20-53.u25	A respectable president. I suppose we're both at the same meeting, me and the highest. Prime Minister. I wasn't talking about the dangers of filing, I was quoting official figures that economic growth in Iceland was measuring in the first nine months of 0.5%. Where has it been shown that it would be corrected except by the Board of Directors? It's just feelings for emotional people who think things are different from what they are. On the contrary, the economist has refused to correct the wish of the Supreme Court. Prime Minister or other politicians the figures that appear there are fixed on the fact that economic growth in Iceland is long, under forecasts, about and within the tenth of what the current administrative body member, the highest. The current prime minister, Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson, believed that it was acceptable three or four years ago. And when we add that commercializing is on zero, 0.25% of national production last year, we can also add that question to how in the face of extremes. The prime minister will fulfill his promise in his annual talk to improve the interests of low - paying and intermediate groups when valuable things in the country are not enough. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-20-53.u26	A respectable president. Hv. On the contrary, a senator did not say what warning bells he was referring to, suggesting that the institutions he listed were all of the opinion that economic growth is small and none in Iceland. This isn't right. You see, there have been a number of persons who have reviewed the data and who work on economic growth, pointing out that they are likely to have an error in their numbers. A senator bases his pessimism on and that when the year is renovated with all available information, economic growth will be significant. So much for all these worries. There's no reason for a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-20-53.u27	Mr. President. I want to direct my words to the highest. The Environment and Resource Minister, who first wishes to be successful in his work, is pleased in itself that, at last, one minister will complete this important matter, environment and resource. I'd like to refer to the highest recommendation. Minister of Cast Light Factors recently, which I certainly welcome at the highest level. Minister said he didn't like projects considered by the Vega and the Landsnet to be the center of Iceland, i.e. high-voltage line tunes and road model over explosion land. V.E.G. A minister repeatedly responded to the questions of a participant, so he did not express interest in the project. That's where I'm at the highest. Ministers agree and celebrate. I want to follow through by asking the highest. Minister: Is it not normal, then? Ministers resort to the disappearance of roadmaking and Landsnet from these plans, calling back plans for assessments, including Because the Ministry's Office. A minister is working to shape a new national organization to take to the center of the highlands? Secondly, reference is given to the fact that at the General Assembly there are prime radios that have to do with the rules of play in this field, i.e. how to consider how to fix ground cables or high-voltage lines: Is it not unusual for a public and semiofficial agency, or firm, to be present, to try to implement or prepare such projects at the same time that a national structure policy is in a shape to solve the area of the highlands, and the Council is to address the laws to be used in the decision-making of these types, e.g. where electrical lines are brought to the ground and where high-voltage lines are? It is not advisable to follow A after a and max. Will a minister allow these companies to disappear from their plans? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-20-53.u28	Before President gives the highest power. Environment and resource minister the word says the President wishes the highest. Ministers to happiness in a new and respectable and important work, offer the highest. Minister welcome to the International Parliament as Minister of Environment and also to the Supreme Minister. Ministers who are very good and successful cooperation in the field of the council as well as in the realms of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-20-53.u29	A respectable president. Thank you so much for your romantic wishes and good wishes, but thank you very much. J. Sigfússon's leader for the inquiry as well as a good wishes for me. I appreciate this inquiry from the senator. That's exactly what he's capable of, at the Ministry is in the planning of a national planning policy and will soon appear before the General. However, I do not agree with the client that it is only natural for me to make a big statement about these matters, that they are not in the field of the Environment and Resource Ministry, there are other ministers who handle both the road and the electronics and the lines of the country, so I'm not going to talk about it at this stage. I've told you, I don't think it's right to park a rough road or to put high-voltage layer over explosion sand. On the other hand, I feel that we can put them in the ground. I know it costs a lot, but it's normal for me to ask this inquiry later to the ministers who have it in their field.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-20-53.u30	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. Of course, I realize that energy issues are being heard elsewhere as well as road accounts. Interior Ministers and Industrial and Business Ministers formally take their lead in matters, but environmental and organizational matters are subject to the Supreme Jobs. Environment and resource minister, as well as national parks and peace-informed territory. Thus, these planned projects are to cover a relatively narrow channel between the East Sealand Park, the largest national park in Europe, and the western winters of peace. It is quite clear that these projects will mark the very next environment of these areas, of course, to be guarded by the most respected minister. I'd like to allow myself to encourage the highest. A minister to consider whether it is at the highest level of activity. The Environment and Resource Minister to take the initiative that while the national planning policy is being developed and until the Council has discussed it, and until the Council has completed the revision of the law on electrical lines and land cables, no further decisions will be made in these materials. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-20-53.u31	A respectable president. I thought I would speak quite clearly both here, as well as in the Castis Show, that I would agree with a leader that I didn't want to be high-volved in this region above the ground, so I would do nothing but repeat my position and my opinion. I thank you for the encouragement and will try to live up to it and to fight for the opinions I have. I think that's how you work. If you have conviction, you fight for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-20-53.u32	V.E.G. President. It's about 3rd. a bill about changing high school law that specifically discusses electronic study aids. The case was covered in a comprehensive review of the General Education Committee, where the minority came to be a specialist, backed by Article 1. the bill but had comments to others. I'm only going to follow the opinion I have in this case at the beginning of the 3rd. I believe this is a very unfortunate step for study data, first of all, by enforcing laws to take out a student's fee to pay a scholarship. I am quite aware that students are paying for research, i.e. Even though I worked in school for decades, I was surprised to learn that in real life there is no law against it. The members of the union called attention to the proposed proposal to add to Article 2. The high school law regulations on authority to have a checking fee, also provide the source for electronic data. That's a whole new thing in the law, then. I'm just gonna go over the suggestions on the whole bill. In 1st. is that the change in education and employment advisers is granted the right to apply for a remuneration school course in accordance with others, i.e. Teachers, schoolteachers, professional managers. I have no comment on this change. This law came through collective agreements, and I'm glad that the present more things have been approved by the council to meet this change. I can support her whole mind. On the other hand, it appears in pars. that my knowledge of incomprehensible regulations is in III. section of the high school song discussing the requirements for recognition of private schools, i.e. those who work as private institutions, partnerships, or with other recognized business practices that can be private property in schools. It consists of a law, a h- team, which is about evaluating a job position, the teaching and students' equipment and the service to them, and set in general regulations to comply with local laws and regulations. I'm completely incomprehensible to me that unless you have some way of helping people establish schools without any professional demands from the Ministry. It is infiltrated into a bill that primarily deals with study data. In the 3rd. The bill then comes about the change in high school careers. There is a period of work in high school law, and it is assumed that a law will determine him. I'm aware that the agreement in collective agreements is not normal, but it comes before the council, and they try to verify it by law, but it's said to remove it from the law and to put this Regulation without setting any basis or framework on how to make such decisions. In my opinion there is another completely unnecessary change, and among other things from the Society of High School Teachers suggested that there were members of the council and, indeed, the unions giving up the right to discuss this formally in their reporting process. The rules can apply online news or through the Ministry. There are times behind such formal consultations, but there are no rules on this matter, and there are no requirements here for such conduct. Therefore I consider this absolutely unnecessary. First of all, Article four. The bill, it is recommended that schools be permitted by a special secretary's permission to collect a price for electronic material that they decide to use in teaching. It is totally clear from the memory of the part and from the context of the United States and from what is said here that it is extremely important that we expand our use of electronic study aids in teaching. The disagreement is that here is a law bill that assumes that the cost of such induction, although on a test project, will be carried primarily by students. I would have thought it most natural, especially because of the high education rates at the moment and the collective agreements that were currently approved and are now being implemented, that they simply take this part and secure capitals from the State to implement the use of electronic research. It's about the collective agreements, and it's a vote for them right now at the beginning of February. It was also shown during the discussion on the Committee, and you see how limited this bill is, that there are no definitions of electronic study data. It is the understanding of some who have been waiting for this to happen that this is merely a case of authority to place on the Internet of certain study books. But there were questions such as these: Did this material become useful? Are the gratitude banks included in this? Is the work data provided by teachers part of the study material to be paid for? Will there be a system around this that, in turn, requires introduction and pay for it to students? There are no statements by the Ministry or by those who submit this bill for total cost, how much this can be paid, why it is taken, etc. As I began studying the bill, I was shocked to see that you already pay students on average. K. for a year's textbooks. People speak of 1.3,1.8, or 1.9 billion, and it can be said: " Even if something is added, does it really matter? I am quite aware that in the long run, electronic research will be able to save. But there is no guarantee at this point, especially because it will be the cost of induction, and there is nothing to say not to take that cost from students. I trust that the administrative body, which seems to carry on this matter, will closely monitor the process and ensure that people are not taking in new fees from students and that they are setting up high costs on things that are not for which students are not supposed to pay. In this context, there is also reason to point out that there is 51 st. The high school song says, with permission of presidents: Each year the amount paid to attend the student's expenses on academic funds will be set up each year. A minister makes rules regarding the division of funds and the arrangements for this support. It should be acknowledged that there has never been money in puntes about this part of the high school law. But it's about time, right? Is it not a reason to enter capital under this point because the high school law, which was adopted by most of the recent classes at the council, should be moderated? In fact, the law can be understood so that high school should be free of charge for students. Of course, it would be a worthwhile step for our community right now when better ones are making sure that study material would not be paid for, for example, an 18-year-old definition of how long you are a child. We reason, then, that after school they will be free at least to 18 years of age and then they can take further steps later. Consider also the goals set out in connection with high school, i.e. that all should have the right to high school regardless of their economic status and living conditions. How does this grieve with the ideologies, the laws, and the things in the real world that are now bound by law and rights? It's not what I think it is. I'm critical of this legal procedure very much, and it's totally unnecessary. It would have been easy for the Ministry to make it easy for the hundreds of millions who are working on this package to start a film - making introduction to electronic data without students paying special fees. Our criticism is focused on this, and it must not be mixed with what I took out, and it is of utmost importance, that there will be organized in cooperation with schools, publishers, and research centres, to implement electronic data to increase the variety and supply, and to ensure equal access to most people. I'm not going to go into smaller details on how this is done, how to keep it, how to charge, and what to do if students don't pay. If so, they are excluded from prisoners, etc.? All of this would have been something you wanted to see in a Regulation before it would be approved. It's now 3rd. and if the case doesn't come up with a vote today it'll probably be tomorrow. I think it's impossible to accept this, but I also want to, as I say, to make sure that we're working together to introduce the use of electronic data into teaching.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-20-53.u33	A respectable president. I'd like to ask the highest. paritaprevir A few questions were asked by Guðbjartur Hannesson to help me understand his opinion on the bill under consideration. I agree with him that the bill is not perfect, like many other things we have here, but I certainly think that is a step in the right direction. There are two things I would like to ask. On the other hand, in high school law it is set out that there should be 180 work days in high school. The only change there is a Regulation clearance, and I don't understand how it will be in order to make one-sided decisions afterwards, rather than to this point, as this will be determined by collective agreements and other environmental issues. However, all of us who have gone through high school know that as long as the oldest men remember in this country, there has been a lack of good education for high school students. It is vital that we do something to stimulate the supply of material. I agree that it is important to answer many of the questions that arise. paritaprevir The Guðbjartur Hannesson and Tract Society of New York, Inc. So I think that the experimental project suggested here, that with a special permission of a minister, they will be authorized to collect a fee for an electronic lesson they decide to use in teaching, is intended to answer the questions that remain on this subject in terms of how many common databases or so - called sett form, sorry President, need to be established. That's what I'm talking about. paritaprevir Does Guðbjartur Hannesson not agree with me that testing projects will be able to answer the questions we need to answer to to take the next steps?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-20-53.u34	V.E.G. President. I don't think there's any disagreement between me and that. A candidate, either on the objective or on the importance of improving the study material and improving the environment in this regard. I pointed out in the discussion at the Committee that the table offers suggestions on uniting the study industry and the study centre into a new institution and that it would be wise to strengthen them together and put them in a similar environment around the study fund, both the development funds and the scholarship funds, and that they have been in elementary schools. The fund has been dwindling, a fund that is just a means of strengthening free study textbooks in competition with what is actually being done by the State in order to improve study aids. The same is true of the evolution fund. I don't think there's any disagreement that we have to do this test project, there's no difference in improving this environment. The decision is about who to pay for it. I don't think it's justified in turning it into a student. I believe this is the exact task that the very first round should be taken up as part of the government's school policy and financial resources to provide financial support for it. It's not that big money. It's unnatural to have students do the experiment. Besides we don't have -- even though I realize that there will be a Regulation at some point - we don't have a guarantee of the source we're opening on. Why is it so interesting to note that the article reads after a change? .. that it follows a set of fees: ◯... and a fee for electronic study material.◯ The experiment in the article itself does not reveal the point. It comes so far back that it's supposed to be a experiment project that's being tested at some point. With the laws of high school and the 180 days, I may be mistaken. Should the number of days be kept in the law? I don't understand it that way. They're taking that part out of the law and saying they should set the high school work programme under regulations. This puts the right to the decision under the table, with no official discussion of business associates and generals. That's what I'm criticizing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-20-53.u35	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A senator's answers. I think we have basically agreed on our goals. However, I think it is extremely important to start a research project in this field. I also agree that I believe it is extremely important for a global and educational committee to keep an eye on the project. I also feel that if you open up to study electronic research, it is important that your scholarships use in exactly the same area so that what will be done at the same time will be used to encourage more production of electronic material. Certainly it is in current high school law that each year the amount paid to pay for student expenses on the basis of academic funds should be set up. No money has yet been given on the budget for this purpose, that has never been done. So when it comes to this, can the senator not agree with me that it is important that we have the basis for building on the basis of our electronic study material? We will have more knowledge of the publications and needs and how electronic study material will be available in the after - school schools, so that we do not wait for enough funds but take the first steps.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-20-53.u36	V.E.G. President. The difference between me and what. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir's Alices daughter is about how we're supposed to get started. We're supposed to be on our way. We're supposed to experiment. We are to decide how to have electronic data in school, how to get it done. I find it a disaster or hopelessness to say, "We can't handle this unless students pay for it. That's what's being said here. There's the disagreement. I say no, let's just stick to the fact that we're initiating a new school policy. They're making a better living for high school. We need to do better. They're making a system change. Let it be a part of it, and we'll raise it with a common fund. Then we can make it for a long time with budgets of 51 st. or as I was saying, I think it's normal that we have free schools at least to 18 years of age at the start. Once we're having so much money, which we can see on the spending to a number of other things, we wouldn't have remembered about 50 million on this project to start that handsomely. Or are people talking about having higher amounts of money? What is it, then, that each student pays, if there are only two, three schools starting with an experimental project? I don't think this project will be accomplished by special schools. This will also be done by the releases itself and the Ministry. We may be able to get through the government's spending. That's the goal of my criticism here. You're about to start a test project, yes. I think it would be nice, for example, if the spokesman for this matter at the vote tomorrow would issue a statement requiring that, prior to the publication of the Regulation, it be presented to the Council and discussed at the same time. A global and educational committee, so we'd have something to say about it as well, and we could discuss the criticism that needs to be shown about the procedure.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-20-53.u37	V.E.G. President. I wanted to come up and ask what. paritaprevir The Guðbjartur son Hannesson in his speech and into the bill that attracts electronic data. But I'd like to start by saying that I think we committees why. All of the General and Education Committee will agree that the quality of the study will be improved and a higher selection for students. If I speak for myself, you want to see a variety of versions that match different needs and abilities of students better. The decision is most concerned about the cost, who will pay for it. In recent years, it has been quite a change to leave high school, since students no longer receive books from teachers, the material needed to study, but they have to pay the cost of weddings. I remember for myself that the cost was considerable. This was shown in the talk "Wicked. " A senator said that if I heard the truth, this would be about 60,480 a year at a student. I know a little about high school today, since I have a high school student. What I've been happy with is seeing increased editions and increasing the selection of books that teachers deliver to students electronically. The cost for the student is much smaller than that of buying the book at the store. I'm asking why. A senator: Does he believe that less book costs could be improved for the country's home? Does he think that electronic study tools may include less cost for the country's home?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-20-53.u38	V.E.G. President. I thank you for the inquiry or the counter-reguage. First, about the cost of booking, I mentioned in my talk that, in the long run, electronic study tools will hopefully be reduced and the cost will likely be reduced. Perhaps that is why I feel that it is so important that the State takes the initiative and does not use students'currency to get it through. That's my argument. There's no disagreement about whether this thing had to be done, it should have been done a long time ago. The fact that we haven't done this so far - has just been put into the law. They've been approved by the forward party, Independence Company, United States. I dare not state exactly who voted and how but there has not been a disagreement on this point, that there should be a trend toward reducing this cost and preferably losing it. Why is this change not taking place today? I don't understand, and there's a difference. I realize the change that will be when you leave high school and because your home has to be worth a lot of money. We know how the Protocol market has been used. We also know that those with many children have been able to make the books go from person to person. Can it be done through electronic data? Will this be guaranteed in a new Regulation that there will not be a new cost with the next child, a year later? We have not found any answers to those questions. It hasn't been implemented yet. This is where students in the country should be exposed to the development of electronic study tools.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-20-53.u39	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir The Guðbjartur - given son of Hannesson for his answer. Clearly, we agree that we want to reduce the cost of education that students, or homes, of the country. This is an experimental project for a particular time. I agree with what. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir's theory that I think this experiment, allowing it to start, will answer the questions we're after about the bill. I think it's very important. I'm asking why. A senator whether he is not important to a global and educational committee is very attentive to the progress of the project. Are there any knots that we need to resolve? Is there something we need to respond to? Got it. A senator will not improve this if we make it a definite requirement for us to have a specific time information about how we are doing and whether we need to respond to any factors? If I speak for myself, I am very excited to see how the project will come out, and I really want to hope that it is the homes of our country and students with different abilities and educational needs for improvement.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-20-53.u40	V.E.G. President. I reiterate that I think we're actually dealing with ways, but not content, and that's very important. I noted earlier that I believe that it is important that most of the items give the interpretation simultaneously tomorrow to bring the Regulation into place. A top-of-the-art Board of Education... before it's over, so I'm going to give it a clear answer. It has brought me to my attention that to start with an experiment and to do these things, there is no legal authority at all. All elements except 1. In the laws to be given here today or tomorrow there is no need. They're not necessary. There's none of those that have to go through, except if you're going to make a formal payout for individual students. If a person believes that this approach will pass away because there is not enough money, he can only look at the financial laws, how they were handled, and what amount was involved. There's the disagreement. What message are we giving, in what future are we going to look for in this regard? I believe that's what we have in common, me and yah. paritaprevir Elsa Lára Arnardóttir, that we want the cost to be lower. Why, then, do we not take the first step in right now instead of giving in to the Commission to set in order to further remuneration and thus officially open for the first time the legislation to be paid without putting any frames on it? That's what disagreements are about.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-20-53.u41	A respectable president. I'm just gonna come into the discussion. We discussed this material well before Christmas, and I can agree with many of it. paritaprevir The Guðbjartur son of Hannesson had offered. What I'd like to say about 1. grow, especially in view of the discussion that took place before Christmas in connection with this matter, that increased funds came into the school course because it was being added to the students and advisers, but it had not been assumed at the time of the contract and was not in the budget. I'm glad they finally got in there. We have discussed the matter considerably, and I agree that in many ways the issue is not about content, in terms of the electronic study tools, but rather about the relaxation found in the bill. There's an excellent branch in bringing up and education by Berglind Rós Magnúsdóttir, where we have access to many of the things we've been looking at in the educational and welfare of the currently ruling classes. I talked a lot about the last session on the budget that we've been calling the NGOs, and this may be said to mean that we're moving a lot into that ideologies. Here, there's a significant postmortem, a relaxation of rules, and other factors about which government agencies do not have to live. It also includes the automatic use of electronic material to enhance the variety or quality of the material, whoever publishes it. Of course, that is not a law. It is quite remarkable that such production, whether by a government agency or by a private agency, is, in effect, a legal arrangement. It is safe to say that the publication of the study material does not have a transparency, nor does it have any. We know that we've been working in the schools of the country whether it's in elementary or higher schools. It is not limited to the publication except in public sources, and we have no one other than a research agency. For others who have been studying the Bible, research is not enough or for specific observations. The Enforcement Act says, by permission of the President: The ceremony is responsible for the preparation, publishing, production and distribution of study tools [...] has the initiative to investigate and study them and use [...] The Agency should consult with teachers and schools and monitor development and innovation in the study tools for acting, core and high school. This underscores what I was saying, the rules apply only to this institution, not to individuals or private companies who publish the material. So, like it, transparency is not being guaranteed. The only thing found in the study data laws and assessments is, in fact, that once the study is published and if anyone feels that it is questionable, the Ministry of Education can be presented and made comments. There are no definite observations. I think this is one of the things that shows, has worked within the school system, and not wanting to push out initiatives and creation, that the setting of the laws is not strong enough as to follow those who publish the material. It is only the responsibility of publishers in the way they evaluate the study material, e.g. whether it's professional, democratic, or whatever it is. As we sit here and place the laws, we focus on our specific organization, restricting it, and not on others who publish the study material. This is one of the articles in which I mentioned that both national and foreign studies show that enterprises that produce subjects think primarily from marketism and from market-friendly subjects, let's say, articles that all students need to learn. We see, for example, at high school that there is a great deal of academic research involved in individuals, teachers, or companies who have published math books or something like that. Then there are articles that are few as we know, and it was just prior to the committee, for example. You may be able to start a study project for a gold construction project, but it's certainly not very profitable, and then we need to make sure that such a study will be made. As mentioned earlier, the book purchases are, of course, still too heavy for a lot of people, and I want to mention the question related to it, which was discussed here in the past: Can students reinvent electronic material as if they can reinvent a new study course, e.g. Sisters? These are questions that I would have felt were the need to be answered because we know that this version has made it impossible. Students have purchased large amounts of older books, even when suggested to buy new books. They have also avoided buying books. Can students refrain from being enrolled in some electronic research system in their field or not? There are all these questions that I don't feel have been answered. I think we need to think about where we're headed first and last time. Are we moving toward the ever - increasing market area of the school? We plan to increase the payer's rate within the elementary school. Of course, there is a type of currency. Though she is not to be, she is there. We know it. That's what worries me. We know, as it has been in the past, that money was not put in this fund. Perhaps there is a reason for this, but I don't think we should go that way to increase or weigh the cost of students. We need to have some perspective or policy on these issues, and I feel that this is a right policy that is not based on peer base and that doesn't guarantee equal access to all. We can't be sure that everyone is able to be evenly accessed, there is no here to support that. Even bioavailability is part of what I would have liked us to be, but not from, as I feel is done here. That is primarily what I have criticized in this discussion. Of course, I want to see an extra electronic version. As we have previously seen in our discussion of this matter, we all agree on that. We all disagree, too, because certain students in some undefined branch that has not been determined which should be, a city. That's what the Bible says. g., this is an experiment and is linked to a specific study course, but it is not defined as being a part of the budget. Hv. paritaprevir Implicit Anna Sævarsdóttir came in earlier if it wasn't good for us to have some project to do with the possible deposit of funds, but then we also need to evaluate the cost of one such test project. The cost must vary according to schools, professionally, etc. Why could it not be possible to negotiate with certain schools that they would be paid to develop a subject under professional management? What would you say against doing so? I kind of think it's about that and I don't want students to participate in some experiment project. Maybe it'll fail, if we can put it that way, i.e. The study material does not result in re-use. Perhaps it continues, hopefully, but why should students who vary in economic circumstances, have considerable support, have to participate in it? Still, the cost is high, and we are confronted with it, knowing that they have sometimes readily escaped from that expense. I feel, coming from a school where there was a lot of information and a lot of information based on electronic material -- but there's a lack of it, we all agree on that -- that this is about the methodology and policy reflected in increasing payment, a little with market thinking, and that private or individual people will expect to develop the material, regardless of observation that it is not planned. There is no way that any special surveillance will be carried out. I think we should have gone the other way we've talked about here a lot. I don't really believe that it's the general will of members of the General Board of Education who have listened and read reviews and things like talking for homes' interests and that they see it as their task to ensure that there is no higher cost for high school students.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-20-53.u42	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Bjarkey's Gunnarsdóttir for her discussion on the subject. I think we're about a lot of things in school, but basically we don't seem to agree on the interpretation of the bill we're discussing here. On the other hand, what I think we're doing with the bill seems to me that Bjarkey doesn't think we're getting through with the bill. But I'd like to start by pointing the question back to Bjarkey, which she actually brought: What would you say would be against making a special school on the basis of this bill? That's exactly what I see we're going to do. This suggests that schools will be granted the permission of a special minister to collect a fee for electronic material. There are schools going on experiment projects, but not some people on the market. The schools, however, can look for cooperation with books, if that is the way they view themselves as promising, but mostly with school. The implementation, the maximum amount, the payment, and the information schools required in the Regulation and that is what I also believe to be practical, to get ways to go. Maybe there's some walls that you're gonna need to cross. What in the bill indicates that the market is in control? I can't quite figure it out because it's all at the schools. However, I agree completely that the publication of the study material is missing, and I look closely to the bill announced in the next few weeks, in a educational institution.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-20-53.u43	President wants to ask why. Councilmen must make sure to use their full name when referring to one another in a speaker's chair.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-20-53.u44	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. According to this point, the schools with a special permission of a minister will be permitted to collect fees for electronic material that they decide to use in teaching. The electronic material can come from anywhere. I can't see that certain schools or schools are being negotiated. It also says, by permission of the president: It is not stated in the law who is responsible for the publication of the study material in high schools or who will pay the cost of that publication. In fact, the publication of material is in the hands of a private driver. This is critical because I feel that we need to increase our surveillance and that the market area is even bigger than it is now. That doesn't mean that I'm opposed to the fact that professionals publish electronic material. Don't get me wrong. I think only in view of the fact that our surveillance might be better if we first need to check it out, so I don't deserve to make deals with certain schools. They are authorized only by Article 4. To collect the price, and that is what they want to use in teaching, wherever it comes from. I ask: Couldn't there be any agreement on certain subjects at a certain school? This isn't a budget. It is very important that you do so. That's why I can't see that there's going to be a written school. There's no money planned for this. In the beginning of this article, we will note that money, as we know, has not been funded before and that money is not being added to this project. I think it's best not to negotiate with school.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-20-53.u45	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir answers. I would like to ask: In what way does the senator believe that the private and public market is not at the same table, as she entered his speech, if this bill becomes legal? By permission of the President, I would like to read from a paper with the bill: It is easy to see that it gets caught differently than schools are given to demand students to demand money for access to electronic material that they are being used for study. This is hard to see when getting a full participation in the use of electronic material. Hence, the schools that are responsible for the test project will always be the schools that need to negotiate with the project whether it is a private person, a person in school, or the schools themselves who owns the study material that is about to be used.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-20-53.u46	A respectable president. What I'm referring to with the difference is shown in the fine article I quoted earlier, which is shown in source and education, entitled To Preservation and Expensive Diversity (U.S.). It clearly shows that private companies and others do not have the same criteria for the publication of the study material as for the only government agency we have, a research agency. All they can do is ensure the availability and diversity of study aids. While we're observing, though it may be more and better, we do, but the rest are not under it. Also, study data is not evaluated, not even on the school site. There is no official surveillance of what is there, even if we are. A senator knows that this material is widely used in the basic schools of the country. There's nothing to say that not everything is brilliant, but there's no official surveillance on it. The difference is first, in that private partners are not made to meet any special checklists such as our public institutions, and I say again that it is not that much of them do not. But there is no surveillance. What I've been criticizing is that even though schools are responsible for the project, it's always the students who pay. We disagree that students have to pay more for the material, and the cost of high school students has been said to be high school. That's shown in the bill in Article 4. that there is a substantial cost to students and that the final student can be estimated to be at a minimum of 60 in the 1990s. K. in a school year for the study program, which will be 1,3,1.9 billion a year if we pursue 21,000 full - time studies. [[The president calls.]] Of course, more is involved than can be.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-20-53.u47	A respectable president. I have to admit, I'm in a lot of trouble with this bill, and there's been a lot of doubt about it. It's a matter of growing up that the bill contains more things than the ones I would really like to do in one bill. Then I'll talk specifically about 3. and section 4. Section 4. for electronic study material and payment for it, but Article 3. On the rules of high school careers, which are known to me, is a completely different matter. I'm inclined to agree with 4. after a very detailed discussion of her contents and after talking to a number of people about how it might have affected her. But I still feel uncomfortable that in the bill it can't be done just that on its own but it's also necessary to state the rules of high school work, something that is already defined in the law, according to the minority opinion published after 1st. I just want to talk about the electronics. I think that everyone in this room is, of course, in favor of the recording of electronic study aids, and I think it's even very important, because I'm very worried about what I'm doing in the Icelandic study. I believe that a foreign tongue cannot compete for free electronic study material, so I think it is very important that we find out as soon as possible how we can maintain study production in the Icelandic language made by a author or at least have enough money to earn. The local scholarship needs to be paid. It is independent of the question of whether students or the state will pay. It's a certain form of permafrost condition at the stock market. Authors lose their income because of the stock market. In itself, people can reason whether they are normal or not, at least in such a way that new books are constantly being produced, not necessarily by material changes, but by small changes made primarily to keep the books for sale. This is so that a writer can survive through the production of study material. It doesn't profit anyone except the communication market. It doesn't profit students, it doesn't profit authors, and it doesn't encourage the production of Icelandic research, so I call it a monster situation. The bill or at least 4. It is designed to enable the initial efforts to correct these issues and is effective. I agree with that, although the method may not be the one I would like. Then I'll go to 51 st. Law of high school, which, in my opinion, must be activated. In my opinion, the state of state is to pay for academic data in general. Yet, this is not the case today, despite 51st C.E. law on high school makes it very clear that each year's budget should be set up to meet the student's expenses for research. I hope this is the chance to activate that law, and I challenge it. The body of elders is to be especially discussed with them in caring for the next budget. It's been my primary bite on this bill, the question of who's going to pay for it. According to this, this is some kind of experiment project in circumstances where students already pay for study tools, whether you like it or not and whatever the law says about it, i.e. Despite 51 st. law about high school. So I'm still half-happy about whether to vote with the whole bill or not, because even if I'm more convinced and more about the need for this experiment, it's after 3. ... whichgivesa Ministerauthority to issue a rule on high school activities, which in my opinion is different. I really don't come to a conclusion in this Senate speech, I'm sorry. I'm inclined to vote with it, but I'm just not sure, and I suggest that in the future we try to understand better what we're talking about in each bill for ourselves. There's no need to try to handle two, three problems in one bill. I think it's okay that we have two separate cases, so it's easier to vote on one thing and vote against another or to sit by. I'm sure you do. The committee's work on this subject was very interesting. And this is another case I'd like to take part in working at the Council where I'd like a meeting to be opened. I think the common people and voters would have done a lot of good by seeing and hearing what went on there, which, of course, was all very friendly and professional and also more informed. A great deal of information is presented at committee meetings, and much discussion takes place where there are some reasons why this meeting does not take place. Perhaps this is because the proportion of members of each body is more or less assured. Of course, while there is always something about ancient events, the severity of classes is more and less certain, unless, of course, of course, we may be tortured because we are three members of the constant committee and simply cannot attend all meetings. However, at committee meetings, it also takes place at the Generals' conversations. Not only are politicians talking to politicians but politicians talking to stakeholders from all sides, including students and writers, in this case. I miss these conversations between the people and the people. I think it would be much easier to talk about this if the discussion that took place on the committee took place here or at least in front of the audience. That's what I'm gonna try to decide before tomorrow whether to vote with the bill or not. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-20-53.u48	V.E.G. President. I'd like to recommend a committee party. The Economic and Business Commission on bill for payment in trade trade. You can find the nominee on the roof. 587, case No. 8. The committee has discussed the matter a second time and received reviews the second time from two sources, the partner of professionals and Motus ehf. The bill was submitted for the first time in the previous year at General Assembly, 143th, on a threshing floor. 663, No. 338. So it was pointed to why. The Economic and Business Committee that took care of it for material treatment and requested written reports. There was talk of the case from the Association of Professional Life, the Union of Icelandic rural Society, the Allied Union of Iceland, and the Society of Professionals. The committee took the case with a committee program to the 2nd. May 12, 2014, at the same time. 109. It included several comments at the bill, as it were, and proposed changes. According to that opinion, among other things: A comment was made on the scope of 2 mg. Section 4. where it is stated that it is possible to extend your pay period. It was noted that there is a danger of the second matter. 2 mg. However, no more than 60 calendar days should be misunderstood in terms of an increase of 60 days from 30 days. The committee agrees with the view that there is a threat to the abuse of the 2nd case. 2 mg. and suggest that the wording of this article will be changed to make it clear that there will be no longer than 60 days for payoffs. Sounds the sentence now in the bill, with the permission of the president: It is possible to extend the pay period to 1 mg. if this is made clear in the contract and such extensions are objectively supported in the light of specific characteristics or aspects of the contract. However, deadlines cannot exceed 60 calendars. The core may be in the final sentence, however, that pay period cannot exceed 60 calendars. In the above, comments were also made at the 5th paragraph. The bill says that it is not clear enough how the article should be explained in the light of principles for spending on chapters 3 and 4. The bill. The committee stresses the understanding that there is a payment process in the process of payment rather than payment. This is made clear in the regulations of Article 5. The bill that now reads: ▪ In spite of regulations 3 and 4. EICs in trade are allowed to negotiate payments with a payment plan. It is thus being referred to in such a way as a payment plan rather than a payment plan. Furthermore, in the 6th chapter, it has been suggested. The bill is authorized to request special collections of $ 6,700. or a dollar not less than 40 euros, i.e. in the original bill, about 40 euros were laid down, compared to the official reference group of euro at any given time. The committee endorsed the criticism presented at 6 paragraph 6. the bill - now I'm still referring to a previous opinion - specifying the reference level of collections in a foreign currency as suggested in the bill, which is not considered to be the correct development of the law. So the committee felt that it was right to use the legal currency of Iceland as if it were currently expected in Article 6. The bill. The committee believes that when the bill was last submitted, they responded to comments made by the committee. Changes have been made in line with the suggestions proposed by the Committee in its committee. Spring. Thus, further changes in wording have been made on page 7. since the rendering of the wording from the original Directive of the European Union's 16th February 2011 was not sufficiently accurate. The original - language word for "excluded " is used in the original text, and by permission of a president, I intend to present it here, which was used by the English New World Translation to rule out the New World Translation, or to rule out, the original - language New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures. Both. This has now been changed to the use of the word'skoptos'. Sounds the first phrase step 7. ... afterchange: The terms of a contract that this law makes and excludes the payment interest will clearly be considered an unfair terms of agreement. In this case, there was no doubt about it and the meaning of the word. In the comments about the case, and I quoted at the outset, i.e. For example, from the employment drivers'partner and Motus ehf, attention was given to the need for a change of 36 p.m. Code on contracts, No. 75/1997, which fences companies to post national rights for goods intended for re-selling. In this context, the 9th chapter was referred to. The 2011 European Parliament and Council Directives would include regulations on the value of the so - called holding rights in trade, and the opinion that it needs to be introduced into Icelandic rights. The committee took a stand on this view in favor of the case in spring, and this is the understanding presented in the committee's article. Such prerogatives are discussed in the Convention on Treaty. However, the bill on the subject is a proposal for an overall payment of a fixed payment on a business trade that is under the Department of Employment. Therefore, it was assessed by the Committee that it was appropriate to refer it to the Ministry of Internal Affairs on the basis of whose custody the contract is taking a closer look in the context of a review of the terms of the contract. Then the second time was as good as it was. The Economic and Business Committee had this issue for the review of a comment at the 6th paragraph. The bill involved in the collection and their recovery of expenses, according to collections or legal expenses. The committee's opinion from spring to spring shows that the committee felt that it was important for the 6th paragraph to be made clear. The bill that collections were to always come in for subsidies, not that they could come to a deduction rate, as indicated by the then term 2 mgr. Section 6. but made the committee a suggestion for a change to the reality of our response. When considering the matter, it was not a reason to change it, and it was one way that the Norwegians have followed the same procedure in their interpretation of the directive. So the Commission believes that the bill with the changes made since its last level is a loss to support business transactions and institutions by improving the deadlines and measures required to collect, or receive, pay up, more or more. In view of this, the Committee suggests that the bill will be agreed on as unchanged. Under the heading, you wrote the following. Councilmen and members of the committees why. Economic and Business Committee at the World Council of November 24, 2014: Chairman Frosti Sigurjónsson, Director Willum Guðmundur Þór Þórsson, Head of History, Blöndal H. Farmal, Early Páll Árnason, advance, Guðmundry Steingrímsson, Líneik Sævarsdóttir Anna Konráðsdóttir Konsásdótir Sigfússon Sigfufufugson, advance, and Vilhjálmur Bjarnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-20-53.u49	Mr. President. Well, I don't have much to do with a good debate. paritaprevir Willum Þór Þórsson, son of Thor, to improve the treatment of this matter. In his background, the committee took up a number of jobs during the last assembly and produced a better bill when this was here reassigned. At that time, most of the comments made by the previous panel and the bill were adjusted, wording made clearer in several places where it could produce a double number and even be misunderstood, such as in this case with the pay period frame, that it would not be the cause of stretching out of the general 30 days with the capacity to extend it for 60 days to be 90 days, but the 60 days would be the criterion. Similarly, the money market for the reimbursement was set out in Icelandic kronos, as well as in terms of reimbursement and remuneration costs. These were some things that you could better go. I took a short notice of the committee's list of committees, and the lead has been through this committee view, although it accepts that most of the products have been placed overboard, i.e. This involved things that we were not sure at the time that were sufficiently well liked in this regard. However, I state that, of course, I'm in favor of the case. There is no doubt that there are significant benefits to having legal frames on payment and to try to ensure that they are moderate and that they have a fair choice, or there are circumstances, perhaps at all times, but especially under certain circumstances, that the weaker party in such transactions draws less straw and may be forced to make excessive payoffs and other adjustments in that way. Of course, this is well - known, in connection with another problem that is more complex than the two evils, which is simply that when very different in size and power are dealt with in business, the price and force of the torture are forced down until others are unable to discount. This is part of the same opinion, that there is a state of reasonably healthy business practices in terms of exchange for goods or commercial services. This is especially a business venture with government agencies, such as it is reasonable to believe that it is less than it is possible to resort directly to contract freedoms in business relations between private parties. Regarding what is mentioned particularly in the preceding article, the importance of reading this in agreement with the requirements for holding laws and the contract laws. Then I just agree with what they say, stress and hope that it will be necessary to look into the point, even though he is the project of another Ministry to better control these issues as a whole. In the main, we are simply building European rules and following the trend in European and European economic rules. It is referred to in the bill's report that despite research in this field, I recall that it was after the ten - year life period of the older payment directive, that they were still a widespread problem in European trades. This is, of course, dependent on a number of environmental factors, such as the results of a business venture, the level of competition in the relevant areas, etc., but there should be also reason to try to have such a regular work in Iceland in a small market, where there are often very few people about the heat and the size differences may be significant in small suppliers or suppliers and large buyers. I will support the bill, Mr. President, in spite of the warning given in the Commission opinion, and it in itself is not very serious after the changes to the reforms made on the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-20-53.u50	A respectable president. I recommend a committee program with changes in bill proposals for the creation of a partner society on the involvement of the Icelandic state of carbohydrates, from a greater part of the labour board. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Ingvi Malla Pálsson by the Ministry of Business and Development, The Guðni A. Jóhannesson and Þórarinn Sveinn Arnarson of Energy Institute and Pétur Reimarsson of the Association of Professional Sciences. The committee received reviews of the case from the Power Institute and the Organization for Professional Affairs. The bill suggests that a minister will be granted permission to establish an official participant to protect the interests of the Icelandic government from its involvement in carbohydrate activity. According to the law on the search, research and processing of carbohydrates, a minister is permitted to decide the involvement of the Icelandic state in the processing of carbohydrates, and shall then be promoted to an institution of an enterprise with the objective of managing the State's interests because of its involvement. The bill is a part of the preparation for such a company, but it is specifically stated in the bill that the company is forbidden to work as an processing company. This is a reference law and is not expected to be a social institution unless there is a decision to take part in the Icelandic government's carbohydrate work under the law on finding, research and processing of carbohydrates. In the 3rd. The bill recommends that the partner cannot accept credit bonds or other financial responsibilities without the approval of a minister. The greater part of the section points out that it is reasonable for a minister to inform the council before approval is granted in the event of an unusually large amount of money. The majority suggest two changes in the bill, one for the rendering 4 mg. Section 3. will be clearer, however, to refer to other laws in 5 mg. Section 4. The bill. The modifications are so moist here. Instead of the words, the activities and services that the Society will perform as a permit holder and the treatment costs to be taken at 4 mg. Section 3. come: the services and services that the company will perform as a permit holder and how the costs will be handled. Second measure 5 mg. Section 4. It is stated: 'They must not have been declared bankrupt in the past five years or judged in the context of employment law by general penalties, competitive law, financial firms law, partnership laws, privacy laws, accounting laws, annual accounts, bankruptcy laws, etc. or the laws on the standards of public remuneration. Hv. The members of Haraldur's son Benediktsson and Egilsdóttir Eglursdóttir were absent from the case, but under the majority opinion Jón Gunnarsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Björk Ólafsdóttir, Kristján L. Möller, Páll Pálsson and Þýstein Sæmundsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-20-53.u51	A respectable president. I recommend to the Committee's members my work committee's section of the bill for the creation of an enterprise for the involvement of the Icelandic state of carbohydrates. The above opinion reads: The smaller portion counts as untimely contribution of the bill. Regarding the case, it has been stated that a minister is authorized to establish an official community to protect the interests of the Icelandic government because of its involvement in carbohydrate activities when and if such a decision is considered necessary. It has also been stated that the union will be established, not by the law, but perhaps after a few years. Clearly, then, some time will pass before the union is formed but how long that time will be attacked. from the development of paintings in the Norwegian part of the Dragon Zone. It is evident, therefore, that the Icelandic government has plenty of time to prepare the company. Similarly, the payment of stocks is not going to be 20 billion. K. Until the government's decision is made to establish a partner on the basis of the law. The lower part feels that the price of a market policy for Iceland will be based on the best available information on climate change and the contribution of fossil fuels to this change. The issues discussed here are subject to significant changes. For example, in news reports this week, it was reported that global oil prices had not been lower for four and a half years and that they continued to fall. At the same time, it is very important to examine the effects of oil processing on the northern environment, especially if pollution accidents occur. Under this view, the writer of the above article, Lilja Sturdy Rafney Magnúsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-20-53.u52	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a committee program with a change in bill proposal to correct a law on the meaning and information relating to the energy use of appliances, etc., no. 72/1994, with subsequent changes, from the job committee. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Erla Sigríður Gestsdóttir and Ingvi Monu Már Pálsson by the Department of Employment and Development, the Ingibjörg Halldórsdóttir of Human Rights and Pétur Reimarsson from the Association of Professional Sciences. The committee received reviews from the National Institutes and the Organization for Professionals. The bill suggests that there are laws on the meaning and details of the energy use of appliances, etc., No. 72/1994. By local legislation the Directive 92/75/EC was implemented but by the bill it is proposed that a directive be implemented which includes changes to that directive, i.e. Directive 2010/0/EU. The target of the latter directive is the practical and practical use of energy by ensuring that consumers have access to integrated energy-efficient information. The directive requires that consumers be obliged to provide information on energy consumption and energy efficiency of products. The values of the new directive exceed those of the first, and it is proposed to change the values and the terms of the law, so that the word "problems associated with the use of energy, " such as the word, machine, or, home, will be replaced. So if the bill is legal, they'll also apply about windows, isolation materials, and taps, but so far, mostly electric prisoners have heard under them, e.g. Optimism, washing machines, and droughts. It is also suggested that new articles be added to the laws on the market control and the legal guidance of the Agency of Manner for monitoring the role of the Navigator Lab. The Commission suggests the following changes to the bill: We've made an adjustment on 2 st. The law, in accordance with the other terms of the bill, is in place of the term "salv" that is related to energy consumption, a term called "salt." So in place of the word "salvation " in 2 mgr, it is suggested that the word be used instead. 2.g. Let's hear it from the law. Furthermore, a word change of 7th paragraph is proposed. The law says they're going to be referred to the Agency of Human Fortress who plays a surveillance role according to the bill. A change in the amount of a day's fine, in line with the changes made by the Committee to 98th, is also proposed for a change in the law on the provision of goods. The committee suggests that a $200,000 maximum of the daily budget will be paid. daily, instead of 500,000 bucks. The Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following modification: 1st After a-team 2. If a new letter comes, as follows: Instead of the word'solves to the 2nd mgr. Coming up: lips. 2. At eight o'clock. will be added to a new joint, a- team, as follows: 7. The law comes, "A human daisies department," and instead of the word "stirty." comes to the Agency. 3. Instead of the amount of money, the amount was ◯500,000 a.m., 2 mg. c-joints 9. g. Come on: 200,000 k. Haraldur the son of Benediktsson and Þórunn Eglíl's Egilsdóttir were absent from the case. Under this, Jón Gunnarsson, Þólfán Sæmundsson, Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Ólafsdóttir Órfurfsdótir, Kristján L. Möller, in advance, and Páll Jóhann Pálsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-20-53.u53	A respectable president. I recommend here to the Committee's list of changes in bill proposals to correct a change in the law of the agent of the debtors, No. 100/2010, with subsequent changes, from the welfare committee. The committee has discussed the matter and was contacted by Hanna Sigríður Gunnsteinsdóttir and Lísa Margrét Sigurðardóttir from the Ministry of Health, Sigrún Helgadóttir, an agent of debt, and Jóna Björk Guðnadóttir from the financial firms. News came from the Democratic Union of Iceland, the financial office of Reykjavíkurburg, the National Institutes of Economic Affairs, Penalties, Percontainment, the Union of Icelandic rural society, the Association of Economic Affairs, the Bank of Iceland, and the U.S. federal agent. The bill suggests changes to the law No. 100/2010, the agent of a credit agent. Its substance is fundamental in three aspects. First, it is suggested that the Agency should be made clear only to the creditors for the acquiring of information that they represent a certain debt. Second, it is suggested that a credit agent be granted permission to pay date on non-employable organisations to the Agency's information request. Third, a case order is issued for Ministers. A similar bill was presented to the 143th legislature Council of 523, but it was not granted. The committee noted that the intelligence of the agent of the debtors has generally been successful. Exceptions have been considered, not on the basis of individual debts, but on the part of the debtors in general. The bill would be designed to facilitate the general intelligence of this kind. For the Committee, the role of an agent of a debtor was to protect the interests of an individual debt, not in general. Therefore, it would not be necessary to change the law of the agent of creditors to make the Agency slow to obtain information on the issues of debt in general. The role of the agent of a debt is set out in 2 mgr. 1st par. law on the agent of a debtor. The main task of the Agency is to give persons in debt problems advice on the availability of resources and to help them make good use of them. Its role, though, is not limited to paying for the release of individual debts. It includes, for example, her role in providing comprehensive counseling and instruction on the financial affairs of the households, as per the g-domain of the paragraph. Thus, a credit agent may need to obtain information that does not involve a certain debt in order to carry out his legal function. The committee agrees that it is desirable to explain that the level of information in such cases does not depend on the agreement of the individual loans. The committee also had a point of view that the authority of an agent needed to be set up for information. In the 1st and 2nd verses of the 1st issue. Section 3. a law on a credit agent says that he can demand all the information he considers necessary for him to carry out his own law, even if the law dictates confidential control. In the same way, companies and organizations are obliged to provide an agent with all the information that the Agency considers is essential for their role. A credit agent is thus permitted only to demand information that is necessary for him to carry out his legitimate role. The task is previously set out in 2 mg. 1st par. law on the agent of a debtor. Thus, the authority of an agent who owes money to information gathering is already restricted in the laws of the agent's debt. Many criticisms have come to the fore for day - to - day pressures. Among other things, day - to - day pressures authorities have been suggested to include only information on certain creditors, to argue that the stress of day's fines, that the maximum amount of day's fines will be reduced, and that when making a decision of the sum of days, the level of the crime and translation of information for the agent of debt should be considered. The committee does not consider reasons to limit day - to - day pressures to information about individual creditors, but the role of an agent is not limited to paying for the release of the debt problems of individual creditors, as above. The 2nd matter of course 3th. 1st par. The bill is assumed that the administrative law applies to the decision made by an agent of interest in daylight, to the extent that others are not stated. Government, No. 37/1993, therefore, is the principle that governments should reason only on the basis of a request from the parties after the decision has been made. The administration authority should answer such a request within 14 days of its arrival, as per Article 3. Twenty-one. Government law. Logistic support is one way to help the person determine whether a decision is to be made on legitimate grounds and whether to sue the decision at the top of the administration or to serve the case under the courts or the U.S. e. if conditions require it. For those who decide to make a day's decisions, it may be particularly important that, at the first, the rational support of the administration for the decision, a delay in the treatment of a case cost him a substantial amount of money. In view of this, the Commission suggests that the notice of a credit agent for a planned day's fine, as per Article 3 of matter. 1st par. The bill should follow logical support for the planned decision. By doing so, you can better ensure that the right to which the Court directs the act will come. A decision on day - to - day matters is also suggested in support of logic. The logical support may well be the same as the logical support for the planned decision. Along with logic, the decision - making process of day - to - day living will be easier to evaluate as soon as possible how to handle the decision. The material support for day - to - day decisions is determined by the 22nd paragraph. Government law ends with a decision of government. In addition, logical support can be assumed with an announcement of a planned decision for daylight taking into account Article 22. administrative law, as logical support for the decision to comply with that law. The committee feels it is unlikely that a separation of concomitantly supported reasoning would increase the high work load of the head of a credit agent, since the Agency can only be used in exceptional circumstances. The 5th sentence, Section 3. 1st par. The bill assumes that daywork can be studied from 10 you. K. To 1 million. K. for each day. While there may be a high daily allowance, the committee considers it proper to consider that a debtor's agent will not be allowed to commit higher daylights than necessary for each occasion, such as a moderate rule of 12. Government law. Hence, the committee does not consider it necessary to reduce the maximum amount of day's fines. For final part, Article 3 of the magazine. 1st par. The bill says that making a decision to make a day's money should include: look to the number of employees involved in the decision and the scope of the business. From the wording of the law, it is clear that it is not the absolute point that a credit agent should consider the decision of a coin of day's fines. It may be expected that when her decision is made, the Agency will take into account the purpose of the day's fine to force information to be provided as needed. It has been noted that paragraph 1. 2.g. I don't think it's a good idea with 5 mg. 2.g. a law on a credit agent, who states in the latter order that a credit agent's decisions will not be sent to a higher authority unless it is specifically recommended in the law. So the committee proposes a fifth mg. 2.g. the law on the agent of a debtor will be removed to ensure the harmony of the law. The Commission suggests that the bill will be accepted with the change shown on the subject. 696, 159th case, going through 2nd. Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir writes this in advance. Hermaphs, Níelsson's son, and Þórunn, the Egilsdóttir of Eglur, were absent from the case. Under the direction of the committee, Sigríður Ingadóttir, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Ólafsdóttir Olafurdótttóttir, Guðvað Hannesson, Páll Jóhann Pálsson, Ragnheiður, daughter of Ríkharðsdóttir, in advance, and Steinundur, the Þóra of the Árnadóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-20-53.u54	A respectable president. We'll talk about 2. change of the law of the agent of a debtor, with subsequent changes. I'm on the committee in advance, and I think it's right to account for what my notice is. The emissary agent's office was first put on and last to strengthen the individual creditors in their affairs regarding financial institutions and possibly on bankruptcy and other matters over the debt has been lost. But an agent of debt, his office, is under obligation. The committee noted that a credit agent feels that he is not able to care for the educational office unless the authority here is given by these laws. According to 1st mg. Section 3. a law on the agent of creditors can be the agent who owes the government all the information he considers necessary to carry out his own law, even if the law dictates a confidential government. A respectable president. This is correct in commenting on this bill. I believe that with the authority being given to a credit agent, he can call for almost any government information in order to actually perform his educational duties, too far out here. The first and final role of a credit agent is to help some creditors to help them cope with their problems. It must be with every debt that an agent can call for information that turns to some debt. This, a respectable president, is giving a credit agent authority to call for information from the government that he feels is essential for him to carry out his own laws. I refer back to the fact that first and last refer to the educational role of an agent so that he can guide, not just certain creditors, but those in general who are able to handle their problems. The committee opinion states:..." enterprises and organisations are obliged to provide an agent with all the information needed in his opinion to carry out his role. My manager focuses on this broad authority of a credit agent to call for information that I believe a credit agent does not need in order to perform his educational duties or, rather, even more so as to care for the individual debts in the challenge that the agent turns to debt. However, there is a reminder of the bill in the treatment of the Committee, which is that when a credit agent decides to call for information, the decision needs to be adhered to. There is indeed improvement, a respectable president, and also the person to whom the information is to be given protest rights, and then he has the argument for the request and can use a court of protests by the government law before a creditor decides to use the company, financial agency, or the management authority of day fines for refusing to provide them with the information requested by a credit agent. It's a reflection on the bill. So I signed the committee in advance. But again, I make it clear that a credit agent can easily do his educational duties in general without the lawgiver giving the information that is being given here. I won't stand in the way of the bill, but I'm on notice because of what I've been able to say.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-20-53.u55	A respectable president. I recommend here to the Committee's list of changes to bill to correct traffic laws, No. 50/1987, from the Environment and Transport Committee. The committee discussed the matter in a very small way, and they arranged for various visitors to meet with them, which is explained in the committee opinion, but I am not going to read. The bill has a long lead, reaching back to 2007 when it was called on a review of traffic laws. It yielded to a bill in June 2009. The bill was presented a number of times, but it was never over, and at 143 C.E., the legislature went from presenting a total bill to a new traffic law. Rather, it took out the necessary issues of law. The bill suggests changes in traffic laws aimed at implementing certain EU types listed in Article 11. The bill. The review of the Commission was mainly a matter of changing rules regarding light wheels and re-education of drivers who operate large vehicles in passenger and freight transport. In 1st. The bill is presented with a new definition of light wheels. According to the code c, a light motorcycle is considered to be a motor vehicle on two or three wheels not designed to drive faster than 45 miles per hour. and has a blast space that doesn't have more than 50 cubic inches [50 cucc] if it has a fire engine or a continuous maximum power that doesn't exceed 5kW if it has an electric engine. A light wheel is suggested to be found in two categories. Class I fall light motorcycles that are not designed to drive faster than 25 miles per hour. and Class II fall motorcycles designed to drive faster than 25 miles per hour, up to 15 miles per hour. According to the definition of a light -weight vehicle in Article 2. Roadways are a light - wheeled vehicle equipped with a burning engine that is not more than 50 cubic inches [50 cu m] or equipped with an electric engine and is not designed for faster driving than 15 miles [45 km] per hour. However, the lightweight vehicle with the bill is expected to fall into Group I, in contrast, bicycle class, as defined by the c-age definition of 2 g. traffic song on a bicycle. Thus, moving a light -weight bicycle bike to a group of motorcycles involves some other changes to be considered correctly. In this respect, according to 1 mg, this is the case with a driver's license. Section 48. For example, a vehicle or a motorcycle must be handled only if the driver has a valid driver's license. According to 52 st. The law establishes further rules for driving and driving classes and is subject to the conditions of driving rights in Regulation No. 830/2011. In accordance with the Regulation, the following criteria for driving are set out for the small - wheeled vehicle class II under the bill: 15 - year - old minimum, 12 hours' study, 8 activities, and written and practical driving tests. The Directive 2006/126/EC for driving licenses has limited driving requirements for Class II light wheels, however, there is no demand for driving rights due to light motorcycles in Class I. In comments to the bill it is in the hands of a minister, in consultation with a Community and stakeholder, to further expand driving conditions beyond the commitments of the Icelandic State to EEA rights. It is anticipated that if such conditions were met, the required conditions would be less than those made for light -weight motorcycles of Class II. According to the Committee, there is no need for special driving licenses for Class I light motorcycles to be given. Such requirements and rules have not been made for light wheels and bicycles. In the opinion of the Committee, there has been no evidence to support the change in the structure of this arrangement and to put it into place. However, the committee feels that a minimum age is required to drive light motorcycles in category I and that it is reasonable to assume that children who are 13 will be allowed to do so. The Committee then points to the Ministry of Internal Affairs that this is part of an educational program published by drivers of Class I motorbikes. For a discussion of key factors, ride your bicycles, and take the main points of traffic regulations and regulations relating to driving the bikes. In this we feel that we are making it possible for the public to use the light wheels or the wallets that reach only 25 miles maximum speed, a highly environmentally friendly and comfortable paces, which we believe are necessary to fall under the conditions mentioned just before. In terms of registration rights, Light Wheels fall into category I under the definition of bicycles as previously indicated and therefore have not been registered. According to 1st mg. Sixty-three. A vehicle, a vehicle wheel, a vehicle, or a tractor should be registered and registered on such vehicles prior to use. So the light wheel of category I will be registered according to the bill, and as a result, it will also become an observational subject according to the 67th paragraph. The law. Clearly, the change leads to the cost of registration and registration, as well as a price for examination. The committee made comments on the registration of light - wheeled automobiles, which believed that this effect was too burdensome. On the other hand, it was also found that it may be difficult to tell the difference between light wheels that are now registered and those who are not. For one thing, it may be difficult for the police to comply with the rules for the registration of the car wheels that are registered as little as there is no obvious difference between them. The Commission, in a sense, agrees with the fact that there is a burdensome law, but it is clear that according to EU rules, it is not permitted to separate light wheels from Class I registration. The committee points out that rules regarding the opinion of light motorcycles of class I have to be taken into account for the use and nature of equipment, and not to be more burdensome than necessary. Regarding insurance insurance and the basis of responsibility, all registered motor vehicles have insurance licenses based on 91.3.3.3. traffic song. In addition to the use of a registered motor vehicle as well as a driver's license to ensure special accident insurance, such as 1.mg. 92. g. traffic song. With a light bike in category I being registered, they'll also become insurance insurance. Clearly, because of insurance insurance insurance, there will be considerable expense for the owners of such motorcycles, so the rules are quite burdensome in this regard. According to the Committee, there is no need for such strict insurance restrictions, including Because the use of light motorcycles in Class I is mainly similar to that of bicycles, used on sidewalks and footpaths, and reaching very limited speeds. In agreement with this, the committee also feels that the wheels have the same responsibilities as bicycles. Thus, the strict objective responsibility that generally applies to the registered vehicle is not valid. The premise of such vehicles is that there can be great harm in the event of an accident. As mentioned above, the Commission feels that there is no evidence for light - wheeled wheels in Class I. So the commission suggests that the owners of such motorcycles have free choice to buy insurance for the bikes and their drivers from operating insurance companies. The rules concerning the use of motorcycles are in 2.g. The bill proposed changes to 41 st. That's the law about the rules on motorbikes. The directive allows you to drive light - headed motorcycles of Class I, sidewalks, bicycle footpaths, or footpaths. If a light -weight motorcycle is driven onto a sidewalk or footpath, it should be replaced by walking traffic. According to the final speech, 2 mg. However, the directive is suggested not to drive a light -weight class I motorcycle on a runway at a maximum speed of 50 miles [50 km] and above. As a result, only light motorcycles of category I will be allowed to drive on a limited number of roads in urban areas and not from urban areas, with an even higher peak rate. The committee noted that the use of bicycles does not limit the size of bicycles in which bicycles can be passed on all roads regardless of the maximum speed. The limitations of the Light Wheels Class I use in this way are likely to harm their users in the country, since their use will be substantially limited, but on the same street it will be allowed to ride bicycles. Clearly, both class I bikes and light -weight motorcycles need to be used in the streets, and roads require special caution where a slow device is available. However, there is no such difference that it is appropriate to limit the use of light wheels in class I by the way suggested in the bill. So the committee proposes the change to the point that these features of the law will pass away. It's 5 mg. 2.g. the bill shall be a child of seven years old or younger, a passenger on a motorcycle, so the intention should be made. The law does not refer to children's chairs of approved type, but they can be very different. However, an essential safety guard may be included in the Regulation. So the committee adds up to 5 mg. 2.g. The bill adds to the general regulations of a minister's license to recommend the use of approved safety and protection equipment for children who are passengers on motorcycles. Now it's time for a team that was considerably controversial in the bill, with a view to re-educing a professional driver. We received a number of people who were concerned about this point, but there was great agreement and agreement on the committee that we were going to ensure that the law on re-education would not affect the professional rights of a job driver and the law would not be so burdensome that it would affect their work. In the 5th. the bill is a requirement to re-educeorate a pro driver every five years. It is suggested in the law that a minister should further state the establishment of the re-education of the Regulation. A law on the re-education of a job driver has a long way to go, but it was first set up by Regulation in 2006, which was later considered to be the killing against the 75th grade. The constitution, which included a burdensome law, was restricted to the job freedom of a professional driver, but it would require legal action. Notes by the bill show that the provision of the directive, as is now implemented in the bill, does not violate regulations 75.g. The constitution. Job freedom can be restricted by legal rights, which requires its public interest. The requirements for public interest must be counted worthy, for training is specifically intended to maintain drivers' right and education, thus improving the safety and safety of the drivers themselves. Then let it be pointed out that the vehicles below are large and heavy and can carry many passengers. Thus, the ability of their drivers is of vital importance. A law on the re-education of a pro driver has always been debated, but in recent years there has been an effort to make peace with him, including the U.S. in September 2012, a group of stakeholders commissioned to reimburse the education. The Icelandic government can't outrun its duties under the EEA contract, but it's because of them it's necessary to re-enact the legal re-education of a job driver. The Commission points out that a job driver's re-education also gives them license to drive elsewhere in the EEA area. It is important that the implementation of the re-education in such a way that it becomes less burdensome and that re-education projects will be kept to a minimum cost. In the context of the importance of having to complete abducted education by telecommunications, the committee proposes the adjustment of its proposal. This would be a reminder of problems with the job driver's dispositions, could minimise alibis from work, and not much of their travel. Then the committee also states that the course for study will be free of testing. All re-educors will maintain their rights. The implementation of the re-education will be considered in part under Icelandic conditions that may differ greatly from those in Europe. The aim of the re-education is to promote the skills and knowledge of a job driver and to increase safety in the country and in this relationship the Icelandic situation needs to be taken into account. In view of this, the Commission considers it necessary to reenact the education of traffic laws, while a minister is entrusted with further application to keep the above views. We believe that in this respect it is very important to the sentence of this Regulation that the course will be as I described earlier, it will be cost-free for the participants, and will not weigh the job drivers in any way that was suggested in the Environmental and Transport Committee. A lot of professional drivers were concerned about these regulations, envisioning a long course that would specifically take on memory, private drivers driving around the country, that would take on those who have long distances, and the course would be so burdensome that some could lose their professional rights. That's not the point. On the contrary, we feel that now we have met our obligations under the EEA Convention, we have secured traffic security and re-education, while at the same time the most important in this context; the professional rights of the bus drivers driving around the country, which is more and more successful. It was a confounding opinion of the committee that this point would be handled in this way. With regard to traffic control, 8 and 9. The bill has provided additional clearances from the U.S. Traffic Control Agency. Under the handling of the case, the Committee received information from the Ministry of Internal Affairs that further work was started on the basis of the Commission's tips. In June. was a staff of members of the Department's Office, Association and State Marshals founded that were assigned to evaluate the benefits and shortcomings of moving surveillance from a U.S.A. to the police room and offering suggestions for such a transfer. It was the decision of the staff report that traffic patrol transport could be recommended to the police provided the project continued and the extent of the operation was not reduced. In view of this, the committee proposes paragraphs 8 and 9. The bill will be removed. This was one of the many issues discussed in the Committee. There was strong evidence that the police'home might be more comfortable with traffic control than they did at the CA, and the police would monitor the country, and it would be normal for them to be overlooked, even if this was not their job. I'd like to thank the Committee for your good work. We have this case for a long time, studied it in detail, and received many tips. We agreed that it is of utmost importance that the light - moving motorcycle, or the so - called viola, remain on the streets. It was found that their accident rate is very small, and the members of the Children's Gang and the older citizen's Society pointed out that these are environmentally safe vehicles and that it would be a sin if they needed the same rights for them and other light wheels, or so - called plaque tests. Older citizens then said that these were vehicles that had increased their use of older citizens; they were safe and safe to travel on them. The committee decided that 13 years would be the minimum age and direct it to the minister to meet the rules on how to use a protective and safety safety guard for children who are passengers on such bikes. We thought there was no need for harm from these bikes to be insurance insurance bounds, but we suggest that their owners are free to buy insurance for their bikes and their drivers from operating insurance companies. Finally, I reiterate my gratitude to the Committee. We have once again been able to settle the issue. The committee is a joint ladder and has worked well, much more and less. All I'm expecting is that it stays the same.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-20-53.u56	A respectable president. First, I want to wish everyone new year of joy. I thank the chairman of the Environment and Transport Committee for this successful review. As he correctly came in, it is satisfying to know how much peace was achieved because these are controversial issues and many conflicting views on the air. I am personally very pleased with the conclusions in all the issues we took in this bill. I'm going to go over a few of them, like the light wheels or the so - called electric storms. Some of the comments are that it is not going to work without strings and that the driving is a little free on the streets of the country and the sidewalks. We pointed out in the Committee that to get a connection with this issue, it is most important that current traffic regulations are being followed, and that there is no need for further discipline. Road laws forbid anger if the drivers are under 15 and have to be carried out, as well as a helmet duty for 15 years of age and younger. Parents, along with the school, share responsibility for training their children and making sure that they comply with the rules that apply, this should be possible. With the changes we now make, about 13 years of age, registration, and other factors, this will only be more formal. I encourage the parents of the country to obtain information and to instruct their children, and hopefully they will continue a course following this adjustment. I think it should be possible to tie this usage without any further legislation on it. Next, I'm going to come to a re-education of a professional driver who has been a subject of debate for many years and has gone a long way, as the previous one was. The conclusion is that I think it's very successful for everyone. As pro drivers pointed out for themselves, they are quite ready to be reeduced and ready to learn about the important things, the new things in security, the immediate help and the other conditions in this country, the new technologies, and the things that are going on in this category. It's important. Then it is important that we make use of the experience the Icelanders have from driving on the Internet. This may be why the European Union's original draft and directive did not assume this, because Iceland is a very long way into driving school on the Internet. Such a school, although in Austria, is hardly known in Europe. We are to take advantage of the knowledge we have, and that is what we do on the bill, which is a pleasure. It should be able to keep costs low and increase competition in this driving course, making it necessary for drivers to travel from corner to corner and stop their activities for a long time just to take a re-education course that does not end with a test. I think it's a positive thing for everyone, and it can benefit everyone, and it won't be burdensome, but it's interesting and important. This also helps us to hold these studies on the Internet and during our long term studies. This will help you to do so in more languages. In fact, we need a lot more bus drivers, as well as truck drivers during the summer hours, when there is more work to do for soil workers, as well as for tourists. It may well be that drivers from other countries would need to increase their frequency here. If so, you will find it helpful to have a study for the Icelandic setting set up in several languages. It's a lot easier through the Internet. This is a great conclusion, I believe, which is here. It should be welcomed, and it is important that the Agency take into account the policy in our committee program with a change in proposal. We think it's very important to be followed. The main thing is what I've been most interested in and interested in, and it's the U.S. O.A. traffic check, how to make changes in order to increase traffic security. The police were under surveillance, but then it was decided to improve the monitoring of heavy transport and other activities, and the road and the police went into cooperation. It went very well, and there was a lot of surveillance until Vega broke up. As we often know, the state's institutions began to debate the money and the cost exchanges, followed by a series of checks. A special check was then taken on the road type, which has limited access to traffic laws to handle this. As a result, it is very limited what modern traffic officials have been able to do. Police officials throughout the country and officers ordering law enforcement agree that this surveillance should be done by the police, that there has been a gradual decrease in surveillance by the police, with both the cuts and the rapid growth of tourists, the mobs of the police have been in public traffic, but not in heavy transport. Also, those working at the Association Service Office say that they do not have the authority to deal with what comes from traffic, what they see when they are out on the road, and that they are not prepared to handle all the problems that arise. The police and Boarding Office agree on that -- that this operation has a better place under the police authorities, that the police are responsible for it. The Federal Parliamentary Committee to issue more money to the police has made a record of this. It was the main project of the Committee to distribute the funds so that they would promote the law enforcement. The Parliamentary Committee gave a suggestion on how to multiply the performance of law enforcement, increase law enforcement, and thus only increase surveillance from one state agency to another, and increase visible surveillance without increasing costs. It is very important that we use such factors to increase traffic security, but by doing so, the police will be much more visible on the roads of the country. If you are responsible for this surveillance, you will be able to take care of the situation of drivers and their rights and will be able to respond if you have a traffic accident or if you are reporting excessive driving or driving, they will be much quicker to deal with such dangers. The results of the surveys and surveys have shown that four out of five road deaths can be prevented by increasing police surveillance. This is the weightier it is when traffic accidents decline. I've been able to reduce their numbers recently, and I think it's going to make a difference. So I'm glad the committee agrees completely on that. Instead of increasing the resources of the city's inspectors to take care of this surveillance, it is more likely to move the surveillance to the authorities who have the authority and thus be able to make much better use of the funds. I think it's important that we make it as early as we know that traffic is increasing. Foreign tourists are one of the biggest risk factors today, accidents, and often less accidents. That is why it is important to make the police more visible, and if you can do so without more money, you should take advantage of it. So I wanted to give special attention to a position on the committee and to the committee that the police will conduct this surveillance below. I hope so. Councilmen are expected to support this change proposal and to implement the Commission's work according to the Commission's opinion and strategy presented there.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-20-53.u57	A respectable president. I recommend a committee program with a bill-change proposal to correct the change in road law, No. 80/2007, with subsequent changes. This is a report from a greater part of the environment and transport committee. The committee discussed the matter and received a considerable number of reports that had turned in their comments. There is no need to list them here, but they are listed in the committee's opinion. The subject of the bill is threefold. First of all, changes in road tracks for the induction of the EEA species are proposed, as shown by Article 8. the bill, in terms of stress, will pay for heavy vehicles due to the use of certain road workers. Second, changes are proposed in accordance with the findings of the Summit review of road law and, third, changes that explain the role of the Grouping Agency and the Roadmaker. The directives of the bill involved in reevaluation of road law are based on the work of a committee made up of members of the local Ministry, the Environment and Resource Ministry, the Roadmaker, the Organization and the European Union. The committee gave some unanimous suggestions on which the bill is partly based. It should be noted that some 230 miles [ 230 km] of roads that took place on January 1, 2008, will again become part of a link road. These roads were never covered with the responsibility of rural society because of a conflict between the conditions of roads and the necessary funds for maintenance and service. Then it is suggested that the target be transferred about 10 miles [10 km] to two miles [2 km]. A change in parity is then proposed. The law that aims to improve the consultation between the road generation and the rural society that the road type should provide a range of road security costs on road transport well enough in time to allow a organizational committee to take sides in the evaluation in the shape of a major planning tool. Two. Twenty-eight. A road law says that a community is forbidden to deviate from Vega's motion on the road side if it leads to less traffic security than according to Vega's motion. To ensure successful cooperation between the road generation and the rural society, it is 6 p.m. The bill suggested that their consultation with one another begin earlier in the planning process than has ever been. In between 5 and 7. The bill is requested to allow a minister to be authorised to implement the Regulation of Directive 2006/38/EC for a change in Directive 1999/62/EC of the straining of heavy transport vehicles for the use of certain basic functions. The directive expects a proper repair system to be implemented due to violation of national rights due to the directive. Since only law enforcement agencies are expected to pay for traffic, it is suggested that the legislators be allowed to be committed if fees according to 17 paragraph. The law is not charged with the regulations and regulations set out on the basis of it. According to Article 5. The bill handles the Transporter's Reimbursement under 17th Article. So it is the person who has the authority to place the above-diagnosed government fines on the legal bodies. The committee made comments on the fact that a law firm would be assigned to appoint administrative fines. The majority of the data shows that it is normal that the administrative authority responsible for the implementation of specific projects will place fines on the legislature that has been identified as a violation of the law. The majority of the data show that only those under law can fall below and are expected to be lawmakers. The majority suggest, however, that the change must be allowed to inform the Group's decisions about the pressures of the management fines to the minister within a month of the announcement of the decision by the party and that such charges for Ministers must be made at intervals or otherwise they are the administrative guiltys of the Group Agency and the decision of the ministers to move forward. Is this in accordance with the political principle that government decisions are generally acceptable to a higher authority unless there is a strict legal obligation? This is not suggested by the bill, so the more part is provided to clear the charges. A greater proportion contributes to a second change of the bill as suggested by Vega, 3 mg. Section 15. The law will pass away. In view of the specification of the activities of road making, the law on road transport, No. 120/2012. Since the conduct of the road-by-passer security workers is shifted according to the bill to the Association, this law is unnecessary, but a particular internal check in the road structure is expected to be in line with good administrative practices. According to 129. Civil Government, No. 138/2011, if it is predictable that the bill will have a financial impact on rural society, an assessment of the impact on rural society will be made and the cost will be followed by the bill. The cost-mortem was lost with the bill, so it is a package of respect. The majority suggest that the bill be agreed with the following changes: After Section 4. A new article, as follows: 3 mg Section 15. The law goes away. At 7th. And two new joints shall be added, saying, a. At 59th. A new paragraph of the law will be added, as follows: Group decisions on government fines are inhospitable. Such decisions may be made within a month of the announcement of the decision made. We've got a hearing for the Minister to delay an entry. Ministers on government fines are eligible. b. It's Code 59. The law says it's penalties. Under the committee, Höldur Þórhallsson writes the son of Thorhl, president of the Committee, Katrín Júlíusdóttir, Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, Birggis Birgir of Ármannsson, Elín Hirst, Svandís Svavarsdóttir, Róbert Marshall, and Vilhjálmur Árnason. As I entered earlier, there is a post for the Ministry of Internal Affairs worth swaddling. The bill contains two directives, No. 1999/62/EC of the pressures of heavy transport vehicles are required for the use of specific basic inducers, and no. 2006/38/EC on the change in the first Directive. However, the laws on highways, roads assessments, and responsibilities of maintenance and service are proposed to change. In accordance with this bill's requirement, it is aimed at ensuring that the transfer of target pathways to be completed through validation of law No. 80/2007 and safely agreeing with the Vega and rural society due to possible change in individual categories. The background of these changes can be traced back to the values of the law at the beginning of 2008, when some 70 miles [70 km] of stockways were taken into the category of rural roads and responsible for maintenance and their services would thus have crossed into the local community. There was no need for further consultation with the local community on the implementation of the case, as well as the lack of cost estimate of law change. Hence, since the law went into effect, the road has preserved the roads and services with them. Following the implementation of the law, negotiations began between parties on the transfer, but their conclusion was that the roads would be submitted to the rural states in an acceptable condition and that an agreement would be made between the Vega and the local community on what condition the roads would be returned. As a result of reducing the budget of these projects for the Vega project after the fall of 2008, this has not been the case. According to a report on a road law based on the work of a committee appointed by state and rural partners in February. It can be estimated that the average maintenance cost per mile is in the range of 1◯1.5 million. K. every year. Thus, the cost of road construction for the 70 miles [70 km] that it will pay for the next five years is about 70 to 100 million. K. for maintenance and maintenance of about 80 million. K. for services, mainly for winter maintenance, in a year beyond what is valid according to local law. However, it should be noted that the road has financed the maintenance and service of these roads since 2008 without a legal obligation. Thus, according to the above, legalisation of the bill will maintain the financial expenses of at least 700 million. K. Gathering up the next five years from what was expected on road law, No. 80/2007. However, these financial expenses have been used for this time, and after five years the same expenditure will move toward the level of government and will spread to other rural areas. From that time on, i.e. So on January 1, 2020, a total of 150 million dollars will be added to your community. K. every year. Other changes resulting from the bill and the activities of rural areas are mainly these: 1st A review of the minimum length of the interface provided in law No. 80/2007. Instead of extending a cross-border road that runs from a stemway or from a road to the road, you need to take at least 10 miles [10 km] in length, they must now be only 2 miles [2 km]. As a result, several of the number of road roads were used for the conversion of 2007 road tracks to return to that category. This has no effect on the expense of rural society and on only the classification of highways, however, has no effect on local planning rights. 2. A new article is expected after 59 C.E. who say that the road should keep specific roads together for five years, although the laws of the law's law allow the road to move from group to country's road to union. The occurrence of these events is expected to be very rare and intercurrent and can only be pointed to one example in this regard. Together with Garville and the African Society of Eupheftness, the Aluminium Road should have shifted from the founding road to urban areas in the countryside. Although there is no basis for evaluating the cost effects of these changes, it is clear that the change is primarily positive for rural society. 3. Change between Counts 9 and 28. The law of the law is a change in word that is primarily designed to clarify the procedure of the law. In the former change, rural management will be permitted to cut down roads from rural areas, but the latter change is intended to reduce the risk of problems between the Roads and rural unions on highways. In connection with the aforementioned committee work, there has been a guide and check list for the legislator of rural society, which is aimed at ensuring good cooperation between rural society and the road structure. There is no reason to assess the costs of these changes for the communities. According to the Ministry Department, if the bill turns out the law will be the cost of rural society from 2020 to about 150 million. K. year because of the maintenance and service of highways to urban areas that become part of a community road. This results from the Ministry has been presented to the European Union and does not make the relationship comment. This bill includes points that have been greatly discussed in Icelandic society, separated between state and rural society. Some have wrongly claimed that the organizational authority of rural society is sacred, but it is not. As this bill shows, society is simply forbidden according to 2 mg. Twenty-eight. A barrier to deviate from the roadtype's proposal for a road situation if it leads to less traffic security than according to Vega's proposal. We are only in this bill to ensure that there will be more consultation to prevent future conflicts. We've seen it over the years that rural society has opposed a number of projects that the Council considers necessary. I'll mention, for example, the shortest highway from Langadal in Huna County. This shortenes to another ten miles. That's a great shortcut. It is not for society to make that decision but for the minister and for the government at any given time. It has also been discussed that there should not be any interfereing with local planning activities regarding the area of Reykjavík. The fact is, if the lawgiver decides something by a general law, local communities must comply. I believe the bill we've put out in Reykjavík, the airport, is expected to date all the people of the country or their representatives to determine the future of the Reykjavík airport. It is unacceptable that one community can manipulate the nation's basic transport system, the one leading lifeline of the country's capital. There has been an agreement within the nation that we have our major joint institutions in the capital area because it is simply better to have them out of existing transport systems, although many other rural communities could naturally host the National Theatre, the University of Iceland, and other institutions. That is why these fine institutions have been located just outside Reykjavík's airport. Therefore, it is important that this bill of our candidates become a reality later in this termstance. It was a small ride from the bill we're talking about here, i.e. No. 80/2007. I considered this to be an issue because, in my opinion, the discussion has been very wrong and the correct facts have not been presented in the matter, either within the council or in the media. Although the self - determination of a community is spent in the Constitution, it can be limited by public laws and neighbors to a far greater extent than has been done in Iceland. I've told you, we're to respect the 78st. The Constitution, but exceptionally when it comes to such big interests as the location of the city's Reykjavík airport, representatives of the whole nation are to make a decision, not representatives of a community. It doesn't matter who's involved, it's not one community to have the power to organize within its rural society so that it affects the country as a whole. That discussion must be conducted at the General Assembly. We are to take up a material and objective discussion of how best to resolve matters. The laws of this law are very clear, as I have noted. We place limitations in nature protection laws. We create national parks where it exists. I hope the bill of Reykjavík's airport, which I'm 1st transporter to become a reality. Finally, I thank the board again for my cooperation. There was an excellent agreement, as did so many other members of the Committee. We took a good time, talked, found, and heard all the views, not just the reviewers, but the individual members of the committee. The procedure will be carried out on the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-20-53.u58	A respectable president. I recommend a committee program with a bill-change proposal to correct the change of earth law, No. 81/2004, with subsequent changes (aggression use solution and government sales) from the employment committee. The Committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Brynhildur Pálmarsdóttir and Hilmarsdóttir Hilmarsdótttir of the National and Social Ministry, Eiríkur Blöndalur and Elías Guðjónsson from Iceland's Bjords, Óskarsson Páll Wisharsson from the Ministry of Economics and Economics, Birkir Snær Fannarsson and Sveinn Runólfsson from the Land Health of the State and Guðjón of Bragason and Tryggvi Þórhallsson from the Union of Iceland. The committee received reviews of the case from the National Farmers Association of Iceland, the State's Rentation, the Union of Icelandic rural Society, the Coalition of Marine Farmers and Organization. The Committee also received a report on land use, research on the use and preservation of agricultural land. According to Article 6. A ground law can allow a minister to allow land to be taken out of agricultural uses. Two. The bill is suggested to be partly independent of the permission of Ministers for land removal from agricultural devices. If the bill is legal, the local community will make a decision to change land use based on organizational procedures. The bill assumes two exceptions, one if agrienvironment area is 5 acres or more and the other if areas of less than 5 acres [5 ha] are considered to be a good agricultural ground, suitable for agriculture, or considered important for food production. The bill also suggests a change in the state of VII. the chapter of the law that concerns statemen. Change of 36th par. The law of the law to impose the prenuptial rights so that the prenup is limited to the farmers who truly are operating. In Figures 1 and 2, Figures 1. 36 st. The law requires that a resident have lived on earth for at least seven years and that he submits to the government's declaration that he was seated well on earth. It is suggested that, in addition, the requirement is to create the earth's own land for breeding and use, where agricultural production has run in the last seven years, with an increase of at least 1/3 of the average population in that field. It is also suggested that farm equipment should be stopped on an farm for two years to request purchases on the ground before the end of its prenup. In 1st. Thirty-eight. It is recommended that government sales be advertised in 2 and 3 mg respectively. The same articles. We're in for 6. The bill, that the ensign will be removed. The bill suggests 2nd. 36 st. The law of the law will go away, but it requires that the conditions that the person needs to meet in order to buy the earth not to be used for agriculture or land as mere 39 C.E. That is between 39th and 39th degree. applies to government citizens who are not to be sold. Commenting on the matter, a comment was made that even if the need was small, 2 mg would be needed. The 36rd law, if the bill is legal, it would not be excluded that the article had meaning. So the committee suggests changing the bill to 2 mg. 36 st. remain in the law. The committee adds to the bill. It is suggested that if a land in which the State's land is implanted (and before the Kingdom's construction) has taken possession or a country that has been given up to the institution then the owner of the earth's previous right to buy it when it is sufficiently well healed, as directed by the surgeon of the land's medical profession, should not be the owner of the country's right to purchase it, such as Article 12. the treatment of agriculture. Seven. A land - healing law states that the State's land healing should obtain a perfect right to the land it takes to curb the land of soil and sand or to restore it. This should be done by contract or possession, by no other means taken by court. There was a similar law in earlier law. Commenting on the case of the committee, it was also noted that landowners had given up land to land healing for the above purpose but without charge. It was also noted that land owners, who are in the situation described here, were seeking to buy land that once belonged to their land. However, the purchase would not have remained, either out of doubt as to how to buy or how to spend money. The Commission's proposal includes the premium of the owner of the planet, when the land is so well healed that the decision to execute land - healing workers is not deemed to be necessary for further action by the Agency. The Commission suggests that the price of sale is agreed on by an agreement including will take into account the cost of land healing/transmission and the costs of the institution's transplantation. Clearly, it can be difficult to obtain information about the latter. It is therefore assumed that if there is a difference in price prices, the assessment of the land should be carried out by storing law. The Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following modification: 1st At Section 4. Add a new paragraph, as follows: Code 1. This does not apply to citizens who are not new to agriculture and land as mere 39 C.E. This will apply to you. 2. After Section 4. A new article, as follows: After 36 C.E. The law gives you a new article of 36. a, as follows: If the government's land healing (formerly land healing) had taken possession of land for healing on the basis of Article 7. track No. 17/1965 on land healing, or older law, No. 18/141 or No. For the same purpose, the owner of the earth, previously attached to the land, has been given the right to buy it when the land is well - established by the governor's curator. Section 12. the treatment of agriculture. The prenup is under the conditions where agricultural use is taken and will not be released from agricultural use for the next ten years. 3. Five o'clock. add a new letter, as follows: Then there is a new paragraph, as follows: 36 st. a should be based on an agreement including It should be taken into account the provision of the land at expeditation, or possession, and the contribution of the State's land to each land transplant (Sandment of the State) has been required in its transplantation. There's a disagreement about prices at the market. Case one. The assessment of the land shall be performed by the enforcing process, No. 80/2004. Haraldur the son of Benediktsson and Þórunn Eglíl's Egilsdóttir were absent from the case. Kristján L. Möller is signing this opinion in advance. Under the committee, Jón Gunnarsson, Páll Jóhann Pálsson, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Ólafsdóttir L., and Möller Sæmundsson, in advance.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-20-53.u59	A respectable president. I recommend to the Commission from the Economic and Business Commission that they have a change to the bill for changing income tax laws, public payment laws, local tax payment laws on capital gains, financing laws, customs laws, road tax pay, fuel laws, etc. and the laws on the cost of equipment, with subsequent changes. For example, consider the name of the committee, along with the adjustment of the proposal. 719. The Commission has discussed the situation and has been contacted by members of the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs and Reconnaissance Services. Then the six commissions received reviews on the subject. These committees thank guests and their clients a donation. The bill suggests a change of seven laws in order to coordinate, streamline and clear tax and customs legislation to support their implementation. The changes do not affect the expense and income of the state's funds. The article will discuss four aspects of the bill in particular. First, OECD, the Economic and Development Organization. For the Committee, comments were made on the removal of the cross-cutting principles of the Economic and Development Organization, on the basis of assessment and correction of the prices between linked parties and on the preservation of documents on data. The Commission notes that in comments to the bill, the cross-cutting rules of OECD remain an important source for the application of cross-cutting rules in Iceland, as in other OECD countries, based on the principles set out there. In particular, the proposal does not include any material changes in Icelandic cover - up rules. This explanation was given for the Committee to recommend the removal of indicators to OECD's cross-cutting regulations based on the fact that it was inappropriate to refer to Icelandic laws for a foreign language, not to be published on land and to buy special access through OECD. In view of the above, there should not be any doubt in the opinion of the Committee that the cross-cutting rules will still be used to explain the review of the prices between linked legislation and the retention of documents. Thus, the adjustment does not open to the phrase of any specific Icelandic code on the cross-cutting. Second, note the value of law No. 142/2013, on the condition of the documentation. At the meeting of the Committee, it was stated that the validation principle would be unclear, as it could be understood in a way that if a management body had gone over a billion dollars. During 2013, they would be obliged to start registration in 2014. The committee points out that in comment with the bill what became the law of No. On January 1, 2014, 142/2013 says that the implementation of the directive would be successful, allowing its effect at the time of stress in 2015 due to the 2014 management programme. Thus, according to the Commission it is clear that if a billion dollars, the paperwork does not start until 2015. The target is reached in 2014. Third, when it comes to the automobiles of disabled persons who are reserved for a price, they are discussed with them. In the 18th. The bill is suggested that there be no doubt that it is a requirement for the collapse of automobiles specifically equipped with wheelchair lifts, or other comparable equipment. A review given to the committee describes concern over the lack of clear identification of lifts, ramps, elevator seats, and elevators for persons who are driving themselves as equipped with equipment comparable to wheelchair lifts. It is understood that this equipment is an example of equipment within the term comparable equipment. Fourth, the Committee considers dealing with taxpayers in accordance with the laws on fiscal taxes. The Commission was brought up to understand that the definition of a law on the fiscal taxes on the tax obligations of which the terms of the definition were not fully correlated with the lawgiver's aims. By the law's sentence it was assumed that financial tax laws should be used to finance companies or sources who practiced activities which would be reserved for a worthwhile supplementary tax. Thus, in view of the Commission's opinion, it is reasonable to correct the definition of tax-employment taxes, expand tax obligations so that it also applies to other persons who are commercially or by its own independent activities, at work or by service, which is an exception to a valuable tax, according to the 10th strategment of 3.mg. 2.g. Act of merit taxation. Alternatively, non-employed sources of valuable tax from the local tax may also be considered to be subsidized by the fiscal taxes and thus taxed by this part of their activities as well as by the possibility of a competitive position such as this. So the committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following modification: 13th par. put it this way: Following the laws of the law, no. 161/2002, about a financial enterprise in 2nd sector 2. The law comes with an electric company under the law. 17/2013, on the version and treatment of battery, and on the rest of them. Under the committee, Chairman Frosti Sigurjónsson, Líneik Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdótttir, Blöndal H. Farmal, Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir, Guðmundur, Konráðsdóttir Brá Konásdótsdóttir, and Vilhjálmur Bjarnason. Under countless publications, in advance. paritaprevir Páll Árnason and Stealm J. Sigfússon A respectable president. Today, the bill was submitted in the autumn Summit and its validation regulations meant that the bill was adopted in 2014. So the manager suggests that the bill should be referred to the Economic and Business Committee between 2 and 3. And the decrees thereof are overrun. In addition, an authority has received further instructions on the regulations of the Law No. 142/2013, of the documents relevant to national organisations only in business with other members of the nationalities they are linked and/or are involved in the same process. The committee has already discussed this aspect of the law, but a prominent authority considers it as a basis for further consideration by the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-20-53.u60	Madam President. I will not extend this discussion, and, of course, no less so, in view of the fact that an authority has already requested that the case be brought back to the committee between 2 and 3. ... and now seems to be necessary, of course, to consider at least the validation principle. However, there were other factors that led me to choose to be on the committee's opinion with a warning, even though the committee worked very well on the case and did their best to make it clear. First of all, it was difficult for me to agree that it would be normal or to improve the submission of reference to the cross-cutting principles of the Economic and Development Organization, including Because the reviews of the case in the previous year specifically stressed the importance of putting into place these cover-up rules. True, it is stated that they will continue to be important and beneficial, so that in itself they do not have to change much. It also concerned the paperwork and the question of postponing it, for a time in the commission, to strike it down, in effect, to the national authorities, but it was shocked to take up the money limit. This is what I hear again, that these issues have some new viewpoints. I think we need to keep in mind that, of course, the reasons for the documentation and monitoring and equipment to monitor the level of prices are normal in big business groups of countries, including In order to prevent tax gain or something that could lead to the development of tax laws committed on business in one country, not necessarily taxation there but elsewhere or not at all. True, this is not the same risk in terms of domestic business relations, business relations, but, of course, this is the case, and it was eventually referred to as saying that I'm thinking of a taxpayer, that, of course, this can translate a barrier to taxation in time and even lead to things that are not meant to occur if people are in any business of an individual market or price that is not in general and that happens on the market. Thus, there may be a moral problem, one of which rules are intended. I can't see that the largest domestic kit or conglomerate is more difficult than similar large companies abroad to be sold under the same rule in this regard. For one thing, in view of this, Madam President, that we get the case back in discussion with the Economic and Business Committee, and I am able to participate in the case and after events, wait for the final outcome to come with these things, which led me to choose to be on the committee with a warning, I don't see the need to discuss it here and then save it to me until I come back for a discussion of 3rd.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-20-53.u61	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a committee program on bill change of law No. 30/2004, about insurance agreements, with subsequent changes (movement of clients). It's been discussed by the Economic and Business Committee. The Committee came with representatives from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, the European Union of Iceland, the Union of Governments and Towns, the Association of Professional Affairs and the Organization for Technologies. Then came the commission from the Union of Staff and Towns, the Allied Union of Iceland, the SEC, the Neighbour Service, the Neighbours Association, the Association of Professional Affairs and the Organization for Economic Affairs. The bill is based on the work of a team appointed by financial and economic secretary at the beginning of 2014 to review the regulations of the Regulation No. 30/2004, about insurance contracts, in order to check if changes in the law, which would facilitate the reports of insurance agreements, could increase the mobility of customers between partners. This work began following the U.S. Declaration of the State of the State on the restoration of the Social Security Society. The State's declaration included the will to promote greater competition for the insurance market to counterbalance the effects of the restoration of the Sea air on competition. The bill suggests a change in the insurance policy law that at the time of insurance insurance insurance, the insurance company can cancel insurance insurance agreements to transport insurance insurance to another community. A health insurance contractor will be reporting 30 days in advance and will make an update at the next month's meeting. The transfer of insurance companies from any given time should be made clear. This change is expected to grow to a value on January 1, 2015. The purpose of changing the law is to increase the mobility of customers between insurance companies and thus promote competition for insurance markets and increase consumer protection. The Commission agrees with the views presented in the bill and considers the likelihood that the change will lead to more competition for the insurance market as well as to the interests of consumers. Communicators were generally positive on the subject of the bill and recommended that it be accepted. The commission was made aware that the current law contains 1 mg. 14th par. In the sense that a insurance company can prevent a contract from being extended by canceling a contract. According to the bill under consideration, 1st mg. 14th par. The law goes away. With 1st. 1st par. The bill is in line with the fact that there is only one more specific condition, i.e. First, that he no longer needs insurance, second, that a special situation justifies information or third, in order to transport insurance to another community. It is understood by the Committee that, in other words, insurance companies will not be allowed to resign insurance if the above conditions are considered to be available. The Commission believes that there is no improvement in consumers and that it considers 1st mg. 14th par. In existing laws, it is important that the insurance company be able to cancel the insurance insurance reimburse without specifically specifying the reason for the resignation. So the committee suggests a change in the way of 1st. 14th par. the law will not be removed. It was noted that the separation of 2 mg was 2 mg. 1st par. the bill that the insurance company should inform a partner of 30 days' notice based on the next month's match is not a suitable criterion. Months vary and may cause unnecessary delays and complications to take place at 30 days. The Norwegian Insurance Act employs a month. In view of this, the Commission suggests a change in terms of a month's notice when it comes to reporting insurance agreements. At a meeting of the Committee, it was also suggested that, according to 2 mg. 1st par. The bill should inform a partner of 30 days' notice when the insurance company no longer needs insurance, there are other special reasons to justify your resignation, or the insurance is transferred to another community. The Commission agrees with the view that the rule of 30 days in advance cannot apply when insurance is no longer needed, i.e. Discriminatory interests are no longer there, and the same is true when deportation is given by other special circumstances. The committee suggests a change in order to eliminate any reservations in this regard. It came up with a view in relation to the bill's translation regulations that it is important that insurance companies have the means to change their work and systems because of the changes the bill brings. The bill expects the value to be 1 January 2015. The committee agrees with the view that New Year's conventions and beginning of the new year are difficult times and generally a great strain on the staff of insurance partners. Similarly, there is a need to do something in preparation for the change, including a change of order and systems, as mentioned earlier. So the committee feels that it is proper to respond by postponing the shoot so that appropriate time is set aside for preparation. The committee points out that in 75th grade. track No. 30/2004, about insurance contracts, is about the authority of a insurance company to cancel your insurance policy when it comes to personal insurance. The committee believes that it is important that the same kind of rules apply to the resignation of an insurance contract when it comes to personal insurance, such as insurance. So the committee makes the adjustment of its proposal. A review of the A.S.A. showed a change in proposal for 1st. 124, par. The law has to do with the booking of a collective labour market which requested to change the law so that there would be no doubt that the employer's announcement of insurance accidents is equivalent to those related to disaster in the sense of the law. The Commission agrees with the viewpoint and believes that it is right to implement this publication of the labour market organisation and to submit the adjustment proposal of the work market. The Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the above adjustments made in a special Senate document. The Escaping chart is available in 596 as a revised proposal in three articles. I see no reason to read them, but I refer only to the Council of 596, the 120th case of the council, where the proposals are made. Under the opinion of the Committee, members of the Economic and Business Committee, which are also the movers of the transition, write why. Councilmen Frosti Sigurjónsson chairman, Pétur H. Blöndal, Willum Þór Þórsson, Árni Páll Árnason, Steingrímsson Steingmursson, Lady Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdótir Konráðsdóttir Konásdótir J. Sigfússon, and chairman standing here, Vilhjálmur Bjarnason. A respectable president. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-20-53.u62	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill to legalize the health insurance law, No. 112/2008, with later changes (fishers). The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by various visitors. Also received reviews from sources most of which were positive. The bill is aimed at harmonizing the rights of all those who have the status of a fugitive in this country for health insurance. Thus, the rights of those who obtain a fugitive's position in the pursuit of security care or family unity will be equal to the right of those who come by government authority in this regard. An proposal is made by the Committee to balance the position of those who have been often referred to as food - power workers who come here on government orders and those who come here for other reasons. The committee considered a reason to consider better the situation of refugees who come here as refugees, who are refugees, and who are of a different sort than the so - called hostilists. Sets the committee up a turnoff on Level 16. It's a law otherwise covered by the bill. It reads, with President's permission: ▪ Government officials have granted asylums and persons who live here under Human Rights provision are subject to physical insurance under these laws, provided that they have come to the country and have the confirmation of the Foreign Institute of England that the rights of a fugitive have been granted or remain here on the basis of humanitarian grounds according to the law of foreigners. That's why, a respectable president, is such a different motion: ▪ The headline of this article reads: Refugees and persons who are granted a permit on the grounds of humanitarianism. The committee suggests that the adjustment of the proposal will be accepted and, in turn, changed the subject's bill. Under the committee, Ingadóttir the son of Níelsson, Þórunn the Guðbjartur of Hannesson, Steinunn the Þóra of Turun the Árnadóttir, and Ragnah the Ragnheiður of Ríkharðsdóttir. Ásmundur Friðriksson and Páll Pálsson were absent from the case.
