ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u1	A respectable president. The Council's work programme is in effect. We're here by the second week after the work programme should be completed. Contract agreements have failed. Three Ministers have completed unprepared queries, and when we are preparing the question period, we will find that there are only two answers. We're getting a report of this in a few minutes' notice. The secretary of state Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson will not be attending the question period. I think it's all a sign that the government doesn't think it's the most important thing, and maybe it underlines that it's time to start writing here and finishing Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u2	It was not clear to the president until just now that there would be only two of the highest levels. Ministers in attendance consider this to be unfortunate, but this could not be addressed at such short notice.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u3	Mr. President. I think it's simple to the highest. Ministers have grown very tired since winter, and they may now have a spiritual vacation, since only two of them are trusting to attend today for unprepared inquiries. There have been no special discussions for some time or since a work plan was canceled. This is not a prepared query period, so it is clear that the maximum. Ministers are getting very tired of attending the council, obviously taking a lot of heat. It would be good, then, for them to take a initiative in trying to reach our contracts and to discuss how we are going to complete the Senate because these pressures are almost beyond their reach. So I present a measure of concern about the health of a minister, except, of course, the highest. Social and housing minister who is always there to answer during unsupervised queries time, so to speak. I express a certain concern about fatigue at the highest level. Minister and I think they should use the few drops they have left on the tank to contribute something to agree to complete the Senate, I think they'd be well protected.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u4	A respectable president. We're running some program here that no one knows exactly what is, and there's a lot of projects that are involved in their research, and they're dotted hours here and hours where there's not at all enough time and that's not welcome when you have to run out of the middle of a meeting, as it happened this morning. Therefore, I would like to point out that there are two things in this position. It's either a contract about the end of the council, it hasn't worked for 12 days since the work programme has gone out, or setting up a new plan, and working properly on a plan. I think it's either one of these days. I encourage the president to set up a meeting table, set down a new schedule so that we can start working like people if we're going to stay here, because the continuation of the same thing isn't working and is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u5	A respectable president. Of course, this is remarkable and must be made comments, protesting that this part of the program is changed at a few seconds's notice. Senators who are entering the hall and are going to make specific inquiries to a certain minister find that they will not be present. There must be some explanation given by the government in this way of dealing with members of Congress. I wish for them. It is of utmost importance to explain how this can be done so quickly that people will be stumbled into this program. I'd like to hear a statement from the government coming to the council. This is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u6	President. Of course, this is dishonored by the council, as has been true here all winter and today at this summer council. I don't think it's acceptable that we have anything else on the convention program except the subject that will be followed. I don't think it's acceptable to be on committee committees and given too short of time. We haven't had any special discussions in a long time. There are very serious strikes here. I would very much like to discuss this with your health - care minister. I would like to have a detailed discussion on how to deal with this problem because it will not be responded to with the originals that have been submitted here. We are not able to have a normal assembly at the same time as we are at the Assembly Hall. I don't think it's normal, Mr President, and I'd like everything else to go off the schedule, it's not even around our work here, while this discussion is over, and then we'll just have a regular assembly there. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u7	Mr. President. This work environment here is becoming pretty strange, and after the work programme has expired, the failures have become complete. A table has started in some ways, but only one hour may be given for the committees to work, and at that time a number of cases must be covered, for no one knows what is first and what is to be done. Then the meeting will be held, where no one knows in the evening when the meeting will begin. Added to this, the Ministers have something more to do than stay here to answer the questions made by members of the Parliament. Most of the Ministers, I'm sorry, the highest. Minister of Eygló Harðardóttir, is doing something else. So we either have to negotiate the end of the council or, there, I want to agree with it. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir, replace some table with a real structure.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u8	A respectable president. I think it must be time for a work plan. Maybe most people have the highest. Ministers already made plans, so they're not answerable today. It may have been well written in advance, natural, and that may well be what we senators have been doing, too. It is clear that this is a new strategy for continuing a council, which is all right, but it's good that the frame is wrapped around it. However, I would like to make an observation to the highest. When it comes to the issue of direct criticism, the government's foreman, the prime minister, leaves the hall. His task management and his ministers are not here to answer. It is minimal to hear when members of the council complain about this meeting administration because it is not a conversation, it seems, and it is a disgrace between the government and the president of the council who doesn't know until a few minutes before Congress that ministers are not here to answer. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u9	Mr. President. This truly is a special situation we are at the council. So I'm sure the president is wondering, like the person here who says what it is that the executives are sending us why. Congress by not making unprepared inquiries until late and eventually, the prime minister will arrive too late, and the minister of foreign affairs will not arrive. V.E.G. The social and housing minister was here on time, as I'm sure. It is also noteworthy that as soon as members of Congress begin to complain about this, natural, they jump at the highest level. Prime Minister from the hall. I'm waiting for the highest. President to go over it at the highest. Prime Minister, why he treats the council like this, this oldest and most outstanding organization in the community. [[The president calls.]] How does this state between the Commission and the council?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u10	A respectable president. For 12 days or so, the practicality of the Ministers has been directed by this council. I'm going to propose to the highest. The president takes the council board back, put us in a schedule, set down a meeting table, so that, while we're here, we still have a conversation about the fundamental issues available, at least we can organize our time. We don't have the same scope as the Ministers to come here and go as we please. So I propose. We all have commitments to our families this summer. We have made a promise to children, to have sex about what summer will be like. So I request that there be some sort of work plan here so that we can at least reorganize the time we have promised our families, at least we can make some changes in him knowing what lies ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u11	President. I'm sorry that our Senate experience is that the Council is governed by the highest level. Prime Minister. I'm sorry that we haven't gone any further than there's no doubt about when we're going to finish Congress. The question was very clear. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir's daughter, of course, that although we are members of Congress, families, and the shame that you cannot even explain to your children about when we can spend time with them. I have to say to my children: I have no idea when it's over, we have to kiss everything in the summer. That's what I have to say. Is this acceptable, Mr. President? No. And it's a good thing to say that Sigmundur, Gunnlaugsson Gunougsson, the highest. Prime Minister, but not the President of the entire assembly? [[The president calls.]] No. I challenge the president to act with this already.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u12	President. It would be much clearer just to recognize the reality as it is, and we would begin a work programme, set up a schedule here, and people will make arrangements accordingly. Here are a few requests for a special conversation in the room, which I suggest that a respectable president take the cost and begin tomorrow with the first special discussion. Here are some good results from the left movement ◯ Green supply: Precautious tax change and equalization in the community from Steingrímur J. Sigfússon since 19 January, the Synod Department of the Associations of Algmund son of Jónasson since April 8, the joint declaration of the Northern Foreign Minister on cooperation in the military field from Árnadóttir Þóra Arannadótir to the foreign minister from April. Here are the requests from the United States for insurance, the loan fund, from the British Future for freedom of expression, for the national culture of the country, for the General, for the Congress, for the ideas of change to Congress, from the Pirates for a summary of the police organization at the 2008-2011 protests. All of this is a very important subject, and if it is necessary for the government ministers to come here and have a word with us members of Congress, I would suggest that it be highest. The president would agree that by doing so, he would request that soon tomorrow be the first special discussion in the long series of such ones. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u13	A respectable president. I'm sorry to go to the highest. With the passing of time or the clock, prime minister seems to let the Allied Council of Iceland delay 15 minutes because he is pleased to be somewhere else. However, he does not approve of sitting here in the hall with us when he is here. [[The point is: There is a meeting board in the President's office.]] It's just a joke, like the kids would say. But I would like to add this list of specific discussions. I'd like to have a special discussion about what the highest point is. The Minister of Education expects a music school in the country. There's something mysterious going on, as in all the offices of that fine man.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u14	A respectable president. What we're complaining about is this inexplicability. It's so hard to work when you don't know if you're supposed to be putting yourself properly into some bill that we don't even know which one is going to be on. There is no need for us to work here this summer on legal vacations, but it is certainly a bit cute when the major members of the body repeatedly state that they are elected agents and can work here for the summer but they're gone, many of them. The ministers don't even seem to be able to stay here. I agree with what has been said, I would like to have my special discussion on the program and two written inquiries for an oral reply that I find very important. I'll call for the schedule, and maybe we'll get the Ministers here in the room.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u15	A respectable president. I was at the school of my children at Mela High last night, and therefore I got to listen twice to the same talk at the principal, which only got better during the transfer, but there was a bit of polite talk. You see, being polite means that it costs very little, but it gives a lot of money. Treating one another with respect and courtesy would greatly add to the atmosphere at the council. Just being ready to listen to one another, that's not asking for much, would give you a lot. That's what I'm pointing to at the highest. Prime Minister that he cares about this. He does not even have to get involved in the discussion. A respectable president. This was exactly what we said when the frame was put on schedule and in the storms that have been here lately. It is not good for us to receive these important elements into the atmosphere of suspicion, anger, and divisions that are at home here at the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u16	Mr. President. If the highest. The prime minister is not qualified or unwilling to show up as prime minister and any matter he believes is that he and his government want to finish at this council as, as so many have been pointed out, is already the only 123/413 days ahead of a work schedule, and do not want to talk to the authorities about how to finish things here, so you can do nothing but go to the highest standards. The chairman of the council that he re-starts a work programme and we start working normally at this council, including a time of inquiry with written inquiries for verbal answers as well as special discussions. If we're here to work for the summer, good and good, then let's have some decent plan on how we're going to work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u17	The president considers an agreement that may last longer for a meeting, but the Convention states that it is possible to complete a discussion on the points under consideration.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u18	To answer, Prime Minister and Minister of Social Affairs and Hospital Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u19	Mr. President. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister on matters of the Constitution and of the Constitution. Since the beginning of this election period, there has now been a board of directorships, with representatives of all categories working on a constitution of resource regulations, on the right of the public to demand a national bill on specific matters, on the regulations of environmental rights and on the implementation of authority, and on the basis of the letter that we received from the Supreme Court. Prime Minister in his day. The committee intends to continue working with other issues. But now it is important that the committee aims to complete these suggestions so that they can be prepared for contributions in the following fall. V.E.G. The secretary of finance wrote an article during the days in which he submitted his opinion that if an agreement with such proposals was made, it would be possible for a national agreement to be held along with election elections that are expected to be held in the summer of 2016, which is in line with the provisional rules in the constitution until 2017 and was accepted here to propose a smaller and lower proposal. The senators of Páll the Year son of Árnason and Guðmundur, son of Steingrímsson. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister whether he has the same expectations as the highest. The secretary of finance to ensure that this vote can take place, and we may then be able to achieve the targeted changes. And how he also envisions the continuation of this work in reviewing the Constitution, whether he is even expecting it, or whether he is expecting the committee to suggest further changes before the end of the election season, and whether there is no reason to, in the Supreme Court opinion. Minister, to change this changing law in a permanent way, for it is, of course, only in this terms, that the people who say they agree to change rather than to two councils.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u20	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a good question in terms of my expectations for a national pay for the produce or part of the work of this committee, I think I mentioned it several times in public that I thought it would be convenient if men reached it far at work and agreed that they could vote on this while the election was being elected, so I still have expectations that they should be able to go. At the same time, I have assumed that the committee could continue to work for further adjustments or adjustments. Regarding the last question about the permanence of this special provision, it was natural put in there so that men could complete the work that may now be completed by elections. Hence, if a function has been fulfilled, there may not necessarily be a reason to extend it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u21	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer, and it is satisfying if these four provisions are sufficiently agreed so that this modification arrangement can be activated. I believe, however, that it is worth all the attention that we reevaluate permanently how we change a constitution, i.e. If this succeeds, it may also be an indication that this law has to be permanently changed, for it has so often been used as an amendment in a constitution, i.e. that it takes two members of Congress to do that. I'd like to ask the highest. Further, the prime minister whether we can expect to do so - this time one of the seats of the advance party in this committee has been left nowhere long after another representative of the Committee's office gave up a seat, which is true of which we have had an extremely good representative of the parish Party, former U.S.A.A. Minister and senator, Jón Kristjánsson. But I'd like to ask the highest. Whether to fill the other seat of the forward party on the committee. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u22	A respectable president. First, a little more about the change in constitution, I've assumed that it would be one of the things that the committee reviewed, which will review in its entire constitution, that it would also consider how to change the constitution to the future. As for another agent of the forward party, I expect it will soon become part of the group. We had hoped for a person who was so lost because of other projects, but it can't be long before we find someone else good.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u23	A respectable president. Today's newsmagazine covers the consequences of the issues presented by the government on Monday. It is quite certain that much of the property will be replaced by this action, and the News magazine reports that there is a requirement for a foreign holding to five years of age. It appears that the government has undergone that Iceland's bank will not be owned by national authorities at least for the next five years. This report shows that a letter arrived on Monday just before the press conference, where this requirement is made on the part of the crew itself. I wanted to ask the highest. Minister only to this because it's been done by the head of the Economic and Business Committee, why. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson, that he doesn't think selling the bank out of the country is compatible with economic stability. It has also been noted in the recent discussion that selling banks at relatively low levels will be available to foreign residents, who may want to make a lot of money thereafter, not solve the problem that is just what is happening to them. In itself, I have no objection to foreign investments, for under certain circumstances it can be a positive one. However, certain bells start to ring when a person starts to set the requirements for possession to be foreign to at least Some particular time. I want to pray to the highest. Prime Minister to explain this to us. What is involved in these conditions? Have people agreed to these conditions? What does this really mean? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u24	A respectable president. Thank you for the opportunity to explain this. The stability conditions of the so - called coven have no opportunity to set conditions for themselves. They can add ideas, but that will not change anything, for if they are going to complete and complete their affairs in this way, they must meet all government stability conditions and are unsatisfactory. In other words, if they don't satisfy all the stability conditions described, that's not enough for them to get an approved contract, and then they simply pass through the taxation process. They can reflect on some ideas, but this is always the case when the minister of finance and the Council takes their stand, but only if it is added to meeting the stabilisation conditions. For the banks, new banks, and stability conditions, they are primarily involved in the potential increase in the value of these companies when they are sold, no matter where they will be sold, and if they are sold for more money than they are booked on right now, then the state will get between 50 and 75% of that profit, by the gain of value. That is what these parties need to meet, and their speculation about whom the Russian owners of the bank will depend on how long it will not change anything there.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u25	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for these answers. Nevertheless, I would like to ask him what his opinion is about this. The head of the Economic and Business Committee has now said that he does not consider it to serve the interests of our Icelanders if these banks belong to foreign agencies when all of this is completed, once the ring-up has begun. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister on his stand on this matter. It has also been claimed that if banks are sold at low prices in foreign hands, they are not solving the problem but are simply delaying it and moving it. I want to pray to the highest. Prime Minister, perhaps to be a little clearer about how to pay for this. It's absolutely clear that if you're going to come in for a short time, and I think we're all agreed that five years is rather short on banking, then you'll have to get something out of it, i.e. Either in the form of remuneration or in the form of remuneration, the price may increase considerably. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u26	A respectable president. For decades, for at least Twenty, thirty years have been tried temporarily to get foreign partners to enter an Icelandic bank market, a financial market. This would lead to advantages if a person was to compete with other banks for banking. On the other hand, I agree with what. paritaprevir My son, Sigurjónsson, says that it does not matter who the party is. For example, it would not be good for the Icelandic banks to be owned by some investment fund that had no intention of being in the bank business but merely trying to get as much of this country as possible. That would be an unacceptable arrangement.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u27	A respectable president. I was going to turn a inquiry to the highest level. Secretary of State, but I can see that it can even better refer to the highest. Prime Minister. I wondered about purchases from government-based eco-friendly cars, and I had a written inquiry to the environmental secretary for an eco-friendly vehicle. It turns out that at some point ambitious plans were made, in 2007, the goal was that by the end of 2008, 10% of cars owned by the State would be air-friendly energy sources, 20% by the end of 2010 and 35% by the end of 2012. This has not worked out. The answer to my inquiry says, among other things, that eco-friendly automobiles are still more expensive than traditional gasoline and diesel cars, but that is, of course, that if we are going to be successful in climate matters, we cannot just look at the cost, and I feel that ministers should go ahead with a good example. When it comes to this issue, everyone must examine himself. If the government has any policy, they have to walk ahead of themselves and, as men say, a respectable president, you've got to do it. That is why it is remarkable to see that a driver's vehicle is, for example, a driver's car. The land of Rovers and the land of Crusierjepps, and so on. Somewhere I saw the highest. The minister's desire to buy a new car was now an example of a car that could be hearsay, but I trusted in the highest degree. When new automobiles are purchased, the prime minister and his Ministry buy electrical vehicles. I'm interested in what I think is the highest attitude. The prime minister is a member of this class.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u28	A respectable president. I strongly believe that governments should continue as they have been doing over the past few years, to contribute to the growth of eco-friendly cars in Iceland with positive motivations. It is particularly enjoyable to see how fast and successful it has been with the electric cars, in fact in other fields too, but the number of electric cars has increased considerably in a short period of time, even though we wanted to see an even faster growth. But all evidence suggests that this growth will continue, as these vehicles gradually become more efficient, more reliable, and less expensive, and thus become highly competitive with gasoline and diesel cars. In terms of a question about the example of the State, I believe it is desirable that the State seeks to set a good example. There are, however, certain rules that a car must meet depending on its role. Among other things, there are certain rules for ministers, but it is not excluded that electric cars are being introduced into the market that meet those rules. In fact, I think there was a particular consideration. It's not true that I'm about to buy a new car, a respectable president, but there's a possibility that there will be some replacement on ministers' cars, as old as they are and some gone. Then it would be desirable for people to examine the possibility of electric cars and, as I say, a respectable president, I think I'm right about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u29	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. I would have liked a more direct answer. We're looking at it now that it's kind of getting too late to react. A report published by the United Nations last year on climate matters is reported to be that we rapidly aim to cause irreparable damage to the climate if carbon dioxide emissions are not immediately reduced. Of course, the problem we enjoy in a Western world is that everyone is waiting for someone else to do something. We would rather not want to change our lifestyle and drive on small cars. In fact, there are some really cool electrical jeeps and tweets that I think will do well with counsellors, so that shouldn't be the problem. I'm concerned that two new cars that have been bought are not environmentally friendly. I call the government to go ahead with a good example, a clear policy, and a course to follow.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u30	A respectable president. Thank you for your encouragement. Iceland is like men are likely to know the most environmentally friendly country in the world, at least when considering how the energy is produced. It is mainly the cars, the ships, and the airplanes, the transportation instruments, that still use old energy, as it were, oil and gasoline. As a result, it is most desirable if we succeed in diminishing this greatly and thus further improving our situation in the world as environmental land. All encouragement is received, a dignified president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u31	A respectable president. I've asked this before, but then it's just to go on if nothing happens. I'd like to ask the highest. Social and Homing Ministers to allow bill input for review of law No. 9/2014. These laws were to be revised by New Year's Eve. Now we're coming to the end of Congress, and we're not going to argue with any bill that the law is being reviewed. It is clear that these laws have failed to benefit those to whom they were to benefit, i.e. individuals who have no choice but to go into bankruptcy. The government was going to support these people by paying 250 points. K. which costs to go to bankruptcy, i.e. The guarantee you need to make. We agreed to a law here that was supposed to make it easier for people to do this. It was clear from numbers that we received last year that the law is not useful because 51% was rejected. Clearly, the law needs to be revised. I'd like to ask the minister what he's doing. Then the minister was to set up a regulation on this matter, and it has not yet been established. All of this occurred at the end of January 2014. I would like to ask the minister: " How does it feel to do what is going on?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u32	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir was great for her interest in this matter and also for her follow-up. It is true that the senator points out that the extent of the rejection rate on the basis of this law has been disappointing. We met certain bankruptcy criteria, and these changes were made in the treatment of the council according to conditions in terms of correction. So I have in mind - and it will now come to the next Congress - to bring a bill and to introduce it to the government, to change conditions that involve both correction and bankruptcy. I know that a debtor's agent has also been reviewing the decision made by the CREEP Committee of Pays and taking up unique cases that have been denied so that hopefully it will resolve some matters. I believe, however, that adjustments are necessary. Then, of course, it is the Senate to decide whether members of the Parliament agree with the changes we will make. I'm planning on performing this bill right after the fall months. It also explains why we have not set this Regulation. Then I want to add that to meet my creditors more fully - and again I thank you for the encouragement from time to time. A senator in this regard - I have signed a Regulation allowing the management of a camp loan fund to cancel what is worth more than what is worth in three years instead of five years ago. I hope that people who are in the position of still having a claim will consider the possibility of wishing that the funds will cancel the requirement. Also, I would like to point out that in a new budget of housing, after losing them at an overcrowded sale, people will also be entitled to repair housing when it comes to construction.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u33	A respectable president. There's no need to thank me for any particular interest in this matter. I'm interested in these and other things. I've worked on it, and I've done the work that's supposed to be over, and I don't think the Minister is going to come by and say that this case will be on the next Constitution. That means it will be on the Constitution that will be submitted in the fall of 2015. This law states that the law should be revised by the end of 2014. This is precisely because of these conditions and what was put into the law that we strongly emphasized that the law would be reviewed. I'm not disappointed in anyone because I didn't expect any of these matters to be handled well. It's just really bad, you know? It's really bad. It's really bad. Minister. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u34	A respectable president. I'd still like to take a look at it. A senator is just encouraging us to do fine works. I considered this revised law to be just what I thought was in view of the rightness of keeping that law and those laws still in effect. Our conclusion, after reviewing the experience, is this: Yes, we should continue to have this option, but it is necessary to review the conditions in order to obtain payment for bankruptcy and they are also in line with changes in the payment laws. It has been shown that the proof rate has not been the same with the process of payment, but it is, in my opinion, too high because a credit agent's survey simply shows that people have received a revelation, not least because they could not set aside because they were too long to work on these matters, and they are to be allowed to meet these groups. [[The president calls.]] However, the Congress said that there should be a correlation between these conditions, and we will respond to them and what was presented in the bill. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u35	Mr. President. We will discuss a huge case that we have discussed during the past winter at the General Assembly and ask considerably according to their status. In my speech, I think it is a reason to review the big lines in these matters. I want to start by repeating what was said in my answers yesterday that I rejoice that these bills have arrived and celebrate the methods proclaimed there. I believe that this is a wise task, and certainly it is based on the work that has been done before and that it will be fulfilled. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, who said yesterday in his speech, attributed to all the governments that had been involved since the 2008 and today of the disaster laws. It is possible to review the timeliness of the situation, since as we have seen, the oceans were established when currency laws were changed in the autumn of 2008, which have been proved to be, as we have known, the right course, and the important thing. As a result, the first plan for delinquency was set up and at the same time tried to create sources to allow foreign currency entrances to new investors. In 2011, a second school schedule was conducted, and it has been established because it has been overlooked to form a bank manager when this program was now introduced that it is based on the 2011 reporting program on execution. I know it's the highest. One prime minister has had a different opinion and has found it very important to try to minimize the results of the previous government in this case, but there is evidence that this is based on the same ideology, although, of course, it has been developed considerably better. Moreover, there is no forgetting of an important stage that also came up in the conversation yesterday when the worn - out preparations were placed under the goats and then the existing government opposition, the independent party and the forwarding party, did not vote, and did not want to support the development of the broken - up ones to be placed under the oceans that have proved to be a very dramatic decision. A political committee then worked, and in April 2013 it suggested that foreign experts be directed to assist governments in finding a complete solution to decommissionation, but as shown above, this case was not under attack until July 2014. The reasons why further diagnostic work has been required. All right, well, it's certainly taken a long time, but the results of these experts are now available. There is also the possibility that there was considerable time to explore other ways. This was shown in the case of the highest. The secretary of finance here yesterday, but as I say is the main thing, and of that we can agree, that this is a very important matter of interest, and this is taking practical steps to eliminate the oceans, although, of course, there is still a long way ahead of us in executing it. We've only gone over it, and there's a possibility that people here have wanted to discuss these matters on different terms. There are a few things I want to go over in it. I still believe that it would have been better to keep this much more open discussion open. In fact, I don't think there's any objection to the conclusion now, and it didn't object to having this discussion all the time. I give little for the reasons why these programmes have been necessary to keep secret to requirements when it comes to the fact that all these possibilities have been raised in the discussion and some taxation has been implemented in government decommissionation program since 2011. Because there have also been some who have testified to what people have said in the past, I feel that it would also be appropriate to maintain that before the 2013 elections I myself said that I felt that some kind of eviction tax or tax that guaranteeed that the discharge of funds would not be an option for the public of the country if an acceptable contract with demands would not be reached. As far as I can tell, there's the way that's on the table now. In all this discussion, in the left movement, we have maintained the main objective of delinquency, but this is not to increase the public burden in this country, they are still plenty, and enough have been in the past seven years after the collapse. I hope these seven thin years are behind us, and I would have preferred that we were already at the point where the workforce would begin and that the situation in the future would not develop in a sad way. I have to say that it made me very sad to hear the news late last night that negotiations had been cut off between state and BHM and I believe that there, of course, the government needs to look to the future and how we're going to build up the interior parts of society like a health system that is simply in danger from the work position that is now in the labour market, both the loss of BHM and the loss of nurses. I reiterate what I've said several times before, that the adjustment of these measures could be very significant to the future, in view of the fact that there is a lack of health care professionals and reason to believe that such legislation would create a rich shortage of health professionals within the medical system. So we go back to the oceans, the second is a stable tax bill to be put out of property position at the end of this year, i.e. On 31 December 2015, he will be 39% and he will collect 2016, but those members who meet the so-called stability conditions will not pay this tax, but will actually do this through an agreement. The use of wording in these matters has been a significant factor, but it has also been noted during discussions at the council that representatives of the government had a conversation with demands. The government has not wanted to deny that this is a direct negotiation. During the conversation, the demands were listened to, and the stability conditions were subsequently implemented. People have said that they do not negotiate national interests. Of course, there is no agreement on national interests. I think it is also important that we avoid the discussion that has scarred, and perhaps more than a speck, has, unfortunately, been far too prominent in some cases. Councilmen, this is about some wanting to take a position with foreign demands against something else. It was good to talk about that matter at the council yesterday and to clean up a considerable amount of air, for I am convinced that all in this room are primarily working on national interests. National interests are centered on the fact that we get an acceptable conclusion for the Icelandic public so that seas can be lifted without any intervention. That's what this is about. There is also the possibility that this conversation took place. I think it's clever. I think it's normal that these conversations have taken place. I think it's normal that there was an attempt to reach this agreement, so there's such a conversation going on and then the stability conditions were developed, but the stable tax is at the end of the tunnel, as it might be said, i.e. The non-employers will have to pay the tax. This is also a natural negotiation. We have discussed a number of ways in which this matter should be handled carefully at the council. I think it's important to go. The Economic and Business Committee is taking time to review these issues with the experts so that the Commission can get the best picture because it's certainly a complicated issue. You feel that even though it was the day's case on Sunday and a lot in the news, people say on the street, but what exactly is it, and what does it mean for us who live here, live and move? That's why. The members of the committee are taking a good look at these matters so that we can present the public as the greatest picture of what these primary causes are. There are also questions that need to be asked, such as the ones I've asked that are primarily about the exact details of the analysis work in 2013-2014, the highest level. In fact, a minister went over only yesterday, but it is also important to examine the uncertainty of the evaluations of the stability progress so that we can get as much as possible a picture of the uncertainty in these matters. This figure has been mentioned at the total number of 400 to 5,500 billion. Of course, there is also a need for us to discern what the conditions involve. Reports have shown that the plans taken to meet these requirements are to sell it to foreign sources. Of course, all these questions need to be traced to the table. The Economic and Business Committee so that we senators and, of course, the public in the country get the greatest picture. There is also something else that I think is important for us to talk about, exactly how the work will be changed. The amount in question is positive as long as it results in the way this has been proclaimed. I agree with the approach that there is, of course, a need to be used to reduce the debt of the state and thus ensure stability in the country. This must be the goal, not the taxation and the result, based on the premise that it is to ensure stability in the country, not directly to collect money. It is vital that these questions also be answered in case of difficulty. The Economic and Business Committee. We've heard the highest point of view. A minister of these matters, and I agree with them overall. I'd like to finally say that the rest of the day is so important to Iceland. The success of this operation is of utmost importance to us in maintaining our economic government. This has been a talk about national care so that we can strengthen the government of money and government. We've discussed a bill on public financial matters, which includes the development of a stronger government of government, etc. Let us understand, too, because of the highest. There is a minister in the hall, that there has also been an increase in taxes. V.E.G. In his speech, the prime minister specifically stated that they should not interfere with stability, but tax reductions during the period of building could certainly increase there. We have the examples of this, except for the experience of the economic theory that a decrease in taxes will bring total benefits to society. I'm the highest. A financial minister who proclaimed tax reductions a few days ago, said that it was the next step in the economy in Iceland, to study a new study from Cambridge University that has precisely explained how the administration of the NCO and Margrét Thatcher has appeared in Britain. There is a very thorough investigation on this subject, and its conclusion is remarkable. It's what we knew, that the policy of reducing taxes, that the tax system is flat, so that people don't pay in proportion to income and that they don't tax money but, in the same way that earnings have increased inequities. I've thought that I knew, and I didn't need much research to do. However, not everyone agrees on this as shown by the study. It also shows that unemployment has increased dramatically in those days. However, the apostles preaching these economics said that it was necessary to maintain a firm stability and maintain a spiritual growth in the community. What the investigation shows, and there's a big story in the economics now, is that the direction of Thatcher, the New Freedomism, also reduced economic growth. She reduced growth, had a direct inhibitory effect on growth. If the highest. Minister is interested in our ability to grow now, which, of course, I hope we will in a sustainable way, I think he should consider this investigation when we discuss the tax policy for the future, because if we want to secure the stability and sustainable growth as well as that everyone will benefit from the growth, not just some, I think we really need to reevaluate the tax policy that the current government has announced. That's for everyone's benefit. This is not directly related to these matters here, but I still felt it was important to present them, for here is one step. We express satisfaction with the suggestions available in the left movement, but we also feel very important that people have some vision of how to proceed to ensure a better standard of living in this country for everyone. That's what we're here for.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u36	Mr. President. I'd like to confront the senator with the concern I have of these bills and hear her response to them. I'll start in a previous answer to the first factor, which is more large than the line of swelling, the greater the advantage will be for the people of the land. It's very clear in the bill on stable taxes that it's 39% tax, but if all the replacements are new, it goes down to 32%. We know what lies under the tax plant, so it's all very clear. On the other hand, if there is a problem with contracts, according to the second bill, you need proof from the Secret Bank of Stabilities. We'll establish that the target of the permanence of the bill is economic stability and public interest. What is this economic stability? You see, it hasn't been defined. Does the senator know what that is? This means that we need to divide the dollars slowly to make it possible for those with money in today's broken house to get out. If this occurs too fast, there will be instability, but economic stability is a very broad term. It can be very narrow, yet stable, but it can be more extensive. Don't the senator agree with me that we need to have a clear sense of what that is? I believe that the employment community spoke of 20% as an economic stability that is an arrangement. The private consumption is 24% that has been relatively good or decent for the population and the combination is at least 53%. I don't really know about these numbers, but this means there's only 3% left to pay interest and pay off the loans. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u37	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson for this question. I like it in that sense so that I like a basic question. An interesting candidate, i.e. What is stability? This term is very much used in political discussions, a term that has a very positive connotation in the minds of the public in the country, but then we can wonder what the stability is. I have asked myself the question: " Is the constantity to form a form of keeping a certain exchange in the country's reward? Is it consistent to maintain a certain exchange in the country's wages? For example, I want to increase the equation, not only in income distribution, but also in the way that wealth is divided between the population, and I don't want to maintain the stability that is now based on a growing number of wealth, much more wealth. I like that question. When I talk about stability in my speech, I refer to the pressure the assets in the ocean create in the interest of the currency and, hence, in the interest of the public in the country. That, of course, is basic ideas. But I think it's important, like a rough one. A senator makes a subject for talk, that the greater impact and definition of stability is discussed at the moment. The Economic and Business Committee. Of course, they need to consider just what the underlying factors are. That's what I also find important to do, as soon as we discuss these measures here, we need to anticipate exactly what follows this procedure and where we're going to take it. Hv. A senator also explains the ratio of consumption, private consumption, and other factors, and I ask: Is that exactly what we are going to keep? I've expressed concern about the percentage of consumptions that have been down in our community, down to form compared to the rest of the North countries, and that's not what I want to see from now on. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u38	Mr. President. This is exactly what the frame is more large for the swelling ready to take out either the combination, the investment and the structure of the economy, or the private consumption. This means a broader frame for the swellings, or for the money in the broken - ups, which they get out of the labour agreements that will then end up in stability. It's important to realize this, it's the Scrollman who will end it. The attendance of the council is limited in this regard. We need to keep this in mind and be very aware of what is real stability there. The clock doesn't seem to work, so I'm running out of time, but for the second act, there are 500 billion who can access the Secret Bank of the Fed, which means 500 billion bucks. A cake box inside the Penitentiary, which can be distributed to sheep like those who control it. [[Up front.]] We have precedents that too much money is locked much more from the Lawgiver, that it cannot be passed only through financial laws that are always submitted anyway. We would have to do that as with the oil reserve in Norway. The person who was going to see it would need special laws to change it. [[The president calls.]] Wouldn't it be good and responsible to lock this money up better?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u39	Mr. President. The latter did so. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson exacts this very afternoon to talk about the problem of temptation, as I think it would be. A senator called it that, i.e. that once the money is in my running account, I appreciate the fact that he uses that word that I haven't heard in a long time, the temptation to use it is strong to the government at any given time, which is good and noble in itself. As I came to my talk, I feel that we need to take this money away from the goals we set. We're setting the primary goal, not true, that this should provide economic stability. As a result, the use of these funds must depend on that, i.e. That they can be assigned more than just to a number of good assignments, except perhaps by some means. Here, people have mentioned some special work that might be involved, but the main goal must be to maintain stability in ensuring that the average public does not interfere with this efflux. I agree with what. A senator, there we especially need to be on guard. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u40	Mr. President. Hv. A senator made a comment about the highest subject. Secretary of finance to make use of budgets that would be donated within the budget because of a lower interest rate to tax doctors as the term goes on. I didn't think it was a good comment at the highest level. The minister of finance and the king's conduct in this case have been characterised with caution. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agreed with me that such comments from the highest level. A secretary of finance is a flounder in itself because of expectations? I don't think it's a good plan, and especially I feel that this is going against what the Navy is doing these days, which is trying to reduce what we can call the possibility of overheating in the economy. What has a what? A senator telling me about this, does she agree with me? On the one hand, it is, of course, so. A senator cut it off, that this has been a storygrim. It has been because one political party, the forwarding party, has endeavored to draw up three other political groups as special ambassadors and thus to have worked against national interests. For this reason, I have to recall that prior to the famous and remarkable meeting in Harpa, the Office of Economic Affairs was signed, or addressed, where it was literally intended for the worn - out conditions to be met. We've heard the highest. The minister of finance is very thorough and honest in the way it is done. Hv. A senator calls it a conversation. Would it not, as it is now known, conclude that treaties have been in progress? It might also be concluded that the meeting in Harpa, at least as he was laid of the highest order. Prime Minister, has there been a bit of a drama? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u41	Mr. President. I came into it a little bit in my speech, and I agree with that. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Acquire of a certain interpretation war. It has been a convenient situation for many to draw this into some kind of ethnic struggle, for some of whom are expected to have been on the side of the nation and others on the side of some undefined foreign claimers or vultures. In fact, I remind myself of what happened. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson made the comment that this word had suddenly disappeared from the favorite dictionary. I've tried to keep a close eye on a debate. Since then, members of the council are not far from right. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson, who says that this word has already been in her dictionary. Of course, it's true, and I think it's been very clear that we had a conversation here. I don't intend to spend the council's time discussing whether this was a negotiation, conversation, or other conversation. The facts are absolutely clear. Government representatives had discussions with the representatives of the demands. They listened to the views of demanding ones. The stabilisation criteria were subsequently developed. Then they can deny that it was a direct discussion and that it was just a conversation. We can draw many dictionaries to argue a little about that. I don't think that's necessary. The main thing is that I don't disagree with the methodology of having had these conversations and then putting up this tax, as I say, at the end of the tunnel to put people in a position that either is written or the tax paid. I just think it's a normal methodology, so I'll say it here, Mr. President. Maybe I'll come up with a better comment. Minister in my second answer, but in fact, I don't think it's a big surprise from the Grand Prix. Secretary of finance. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u42	They surprised me, Mr. President. I find myself in many articles contrasting with the highest. Secretary of finance, but I've given him a plus for the fact that he's walked very carefully through a door in the financial affairs of the state. I've felt that he was doing well, especially in this case, and he's to be commended for drawing another sledge that he operates on from the nonsense that had to do with the failure route. It would have just put an Icelandic community in grave danger. That's why I don't think it's dangerous. In case of a moment. A senator doesn't want to dance with me about labelling, I'm not going to go into this any further. I draw attention to the importance of this interpretation. For example, former VG's chairman has been accused of being very wrong in the way the demands were given to banks at the time. Well, it is now obvious that it was the right decision and that all that was put into it will be almost far different. No other information can be read from the address provided on the financial network but that is confirmation that this is the case. þm. Steingrímur J. Sigfusson made a minister of finance a chorus. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, this is not an interpretation war, perhaps a struggle to prove the truth. I know it's the highest. The president is an amateur about that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u43	Mr. President. What I was trying to say to you. A senator in my previous answer is that things can be called different names, but the facts are very obvious to me. That's why I thought it was a little out of my mind to listen to the highest. The prime minister of yesterday and made an observation when he came up here with his plot in which he carefully cut down everything the last government would have done in this case because he is very interested in thanking only him and his team, so to speak. That's what I think I'm going to say about the highest. Prime Minister, but the whole matter. This is one common case. I agree with what. A member of the council here spoke that this case has been handled faithfully and in agreement the whole time. Should we not be thankful for that? I'll take it back to what you're talking about. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon's son yesterday, all three governments involved in this case are to be commended. Should we not agree that some may find it difficult to do so?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u44	Mr. President. Hv. A member of the council considered some of the bills discussed here could influence the improvement in the interests of the State Fund and how to play out the tax taxes that can be under, now or in stability. I don't think that on the ground there's a lot of disagreement about that. However, it seems to each of us that what is supposed to be legalized here is likely to be handled. You complain that there is a possibility for future tax declines, which is quite significant because tax reductions are just a relief from the homes in the country. It is amazing how many seem tenacious in their fight against such a course. It's amazing. To make people feel better about each other is to make it easier to make ends meet. It's just that simple. Let people keep a higher proportion of their self-rich, is that a crime? Men go so far as to quote from Margrét Thatcher, and there's always chills about the left men when she comes home. It's just fun to do that, it's the woman who's been authorized to run Britain for the second decade as prime minister, and who was especially fond of the prime minister now in charge of Britain, who has never been secret, and who has just been authorized by voters for the shortest time to continue on the course she was making in the 1970's. [[That's not true.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u45	I had a thing for her.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u46	Tax taxes and the tax changes we've been talking about are not flat taxes, since everyone pays the same percentage of their pay to the state. That's wrong. It's the misdemeanor of the Independence Party's tax policy. If we had that direction, we'd be here measuring for one tax step and no personal discount. We're not making a recommendation. We support the personal discount, and the fact is that even with the tax changes we are making now and the ones we want to do in the future, the tax loads will vary. It will refer to the lowest earner, and it will become the highest earner in the highest income.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u47	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I think here, in fact, there's the more dramatic difference between the left movement and the Independence Party. Of course, the government's actions have fallen to evict the tax system, Mr. President. Of course, the reduction in tax levels is no more than a step in eroding out the tax system at the highest level. A minister here insists that the Independence Party supports a personal discount, even though it may be, I'm just saying, Mr. President. And what is the elimination of a wealth tax other than another step in easing out the tax system? What is the increase in food tax rates other than increased spells on those who spend most of their income on food? There's low income groups in the country. All of this aims toward my knowledge, and I know that we are at the highest. Surely a minister will never agree on that, to increase the inequities of society. It may not be surprising that we disagree on this, but I am impressed. The minister who comes up here promising Margrét Thatcher and her administrative conference here in the Ponta Allellis to study the results of that policy of government. It may well be at the top. A minister is her admirer, but to examine the results of one of the world's top universities, Cambridge, on the results of the government policy. Even if you are attracted to someone, even if you are attracted to someone, you may at times need to reevaluate your values when new evidence is presented. The data presented by this fine university directly show that her policy produced greater inequality, unemployment, and growth - what I have heard about elections. Thatcher's board of directorship, to the highest level. The head of the Independence Party here promises so much, bringing back much less interest as we see contrary results in the communities that have rather taught themselves in an equal policy in the past.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u48	Mr. President. From time to time before, I was shocked to hear the Chairman of the left-hand green mother, who is at the root of the improved biographer. It's good to know that they want to promote more economic growth, but some of the great men are. Just the other way in which a senator has said that economic growth and the demand for sustained economic growth are a major threat to mankind. But if so, that is to say, less economic growth. A senator is concerned about them because at present he is predicting that we are living one of the longest consecutive stages of economic growth in the later years. That should make you happy. A senator. Regarding inequities, it is certainly not a problem in Iceland on an international scale, but it wants to do better. One thing is that I think we should keep in mind, that, for example, in areas such as housing, international research, human beings are referring to them here, that the special policy will lead to more equations than a housing policy based on a vast increase in social housing and rent market.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u49	Mr. President. It's not surprising. The secretary of finance will finish his statement here, putting up with the challenge. Social and housing minister for a large increase in the role of rented housing. It's not the first time they disagree on a course. But I just want to say that if the best. Minister has listened to me, not just today, but before, he knows that, of course, when I grow up, I am thinking about growth that is in some way consistent with other factors. We must keep in mind that we want to grow, but we want him to be at peace with the environment and society, i.e. that it is not solely on economic grounds. Of course, growth is positive, but it is not positive at any time, and it should not be based on anything. The level of growth is important, but I hear that we are at the highest level. Ministers would have to have a considerable longer time for these exchanges, since they are about the fundamental differences between political policy and how we want to build. I think it's important to realize that increasing equations also mean more prosperity and growth on sustainable terms. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u50	Mr. President. I have probably gone too far in praising the highest. Secretary of finance. I think there's a lot to suggest that he's been commended, but I'm, like yesterday, glad about this matter and just as I said yesterday, at least, yesterday. This part of my delinquency has lifted a heavy weight from me. I don't want my joy ruined, but I have to say there are two things I need to say to the highest. Minister before he possibly runs away. V.E.G. A minister has not been sitting here long enough to remember or to know that shortly after I sat down at the council, I failed to defend Britain's former prime minister Margrét Thatcher. She was under heavy pressure, and I didn't realize that she had done good things, including good things. Set up a system for foreign students that would have led me to pursue university education in Britain free of charge. This led to intense verbal exchange. The local president of the Republic used the opportunity to walk on me almost with shovels and irons and called me one of them, with the permission of presidents of the United States, ▪ Mogggie's boys, which followed the last decade was a disgrace in these sales. That fine woman was listed, and she was a great politician, although I certainly did not agree with her opinions, rather than with her many political views. Minister. And even if I don't want to do so, it's to cause me to lose my joy. A minister believes that it was indiscriminately from him and from his other ways in connection with the actions we are discussing starting here at the early stage of the discussion of what he was going to do to protect the budget that was created for the sake of less interest. I think it's unfortunate in this situation. V.E.G. Ministers have said that there is a success of economic growth, the same process that was produced by the AGS and Icelandic government in 2010, exactly the same process, and it is praiseworthy that three governments have managed to maintain it and economic growth is as good as it is today. In addition, major projects are being carried out in the years that follow. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson has thanked the former government. Of course it's just like this, a lot of people that comes in, so I think one of the top projects. A minister, along with the Shared Bank on the next loss, must close this barrel and try to keep the economy in such a way that it does not overheat. That's what the bank manager is trying to do with both the bank's growth determination yesterday and some of the strongest reports on the proposed interest increases I can remember. That's when I feel like I'm about to lose my mind. A secretary of finance comes on the same day, raising expectations that promote people's spending by talking about future tax reductions. Experience shows that wording of that kind promotes consumption, self - esteem. Other than that, I'm not gonna say anything further about it. My attitude toward these issues has been made clear. I'm gonna support the issues we're gonna discuss here. I recall it for a number of reasons. The members of this hall said that immediately and on the same day, at the convention of the Future Party, I took the lead in the media and described it as my opinion that the parties and groups of the last government should support this. Of course, I avoided the danger that the situation would be properly handled. I have obviously not been able to look into this complex matter completely or through the report with the economic X - ray needed to reach a reasonable conclusion. That's what's called the Council. Yet, what I have done and examined and studied from the discussions here, listen both to the highest. A financial minister I told yesterday that had been giving a very good speech, listening to the bank manager, too, leads me up to the conclusion that this is the subject of most of the things that might arise. I'm extremely well equipped for this. I especially want these water divorces in this process to thank those who came, the Ministry of finance, who have worked very zealously since 2009 on this project. I don't hesitate to thank the highest. Secretary of finance, which I've done before. I believe his bones were very important because at least he saw to it that men did not get out of this process. They needed strength to do so. We know that the last loss has been a strong force in the community, strong forces within the governments, who wanted to go another way. Thanks to the Independence Party, that way had not gone. To say that this way provides a much less risky environment for Icelandic society than if the failure route had gone. For Icelandic society, the failure route may well have yielded much more and possibly more benefits, but not on the basis of the highest conditions. The secretary of finance said last night that it had to be satisfied. They are that the scope created by this efforts is primarily to maintain financial stability in Iceland. I understood the best. A secretary of finance so that more than that, it would not be possible to view weare as some special tax stock to make a living. That's how I've understood this matter, and I agree with it. So I believe that if men had gone the other way, there would have been a serious lawsuit that might have led us onto Argentina. We know exactly how difficult it was. It all matters. If you look at the story, I agree with the review that happened. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon yesterday. All those who have done this work have just in mind making the best of the nation's best interests. It was the basis for the work that began in 2009 when a plan for delinquency was discovered, as was the strategy far beyond what has been applied in 2011. It was a plan designed in cooperation with three units, AGS, the Secret Bank and the Ministry of finance, just so it's totally clear. In modern times, we have divided this assignment into two parts, one for removing the deportations. Let us not forget that they were at that time as disaster as the farm's crowning share is today. Most likely, they were for the farm stocks that had moved and moved here, in the power of a gang trade, if I recall just 750 billion. There were other factors to look to, too, as if payments had to be paid by Icelandic companies and rural communities. That was two of them. It was the crowning of the broils, and it was the leftovers. Immediately, the way that is still being done was to rub down the deltas through an outdoor. This has resulted in this today's mass of 750 billion to 300 billion. Of course, the nature of these crowns, which are now in the Secret Bank, is of importance in the form of the old Book of Psalms. They're not as quick as the ones that have passed through the invitations. It has been brought to earth and has released the crowns most dangerous of that group. I don't think there's anything left in the crowns. We will see in what way their owners will do their destiny, but right then they also put plans for it at a certain time when the most ruthless would have been ousted to try to get the rest of them into long currency paper. As far as I can see, it's part of this plan. Similarly, it was thought of two factors that involved the remaining ones, either somehow setting them up on low or no interest, locked up in the Secret Bank, or allowing them to go out on very high exits. It was repeatedly discussed by the AGS embassy, probably several times with the former secretary of finance, certainly several times with me as foreign ministers at the time. As far as I can see, this is the harmony between the previous governments and the one now sitting. I don't think those crowns are a big problem today. There is still the big problem that is the crowning property of the broilers, which today totals 900 billion, according to my opinion. You're absolutely right. The secretary of finance said this yesterday, when he entered his Ministry, he did not accept an appointed office or, as he put it so that I direct his words, the full-time plan. The plan was, however, there. Various stage photos were then drawn up. Hv. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir mentioned some here. Because of what? paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson said that the forward party had been attacked for talking about whips and carrots at the time, so I totally refer to the Fathers. It was an expression that was literally used by a former financial minister, the daughter of Katrín Júlíusdóttir. They were completely aware of how to pinch the demanding workers so that they would move. Then it is appropriate to review what I believe was of utmost importance, and it was the success that the Allied Council invaded by the Council of March 12, 2012, when the Congress came through post-market Congress and overnight the discussions of the bill that changed currency laws in such a way that all the parsa's currency was locked in an economic record where they had come down. That was the Iron Man. It was the bat that could then be held in position to lean on them, or after an incident, there was a keg to run in a shotgun like one o'clock. A senator said that it should be used. - I'm sorry if this case of mine makes me wonder. Senators fall asleep under it in the hall. It's not long over yet. The government was wondering about stage films. One of them and the only one publicly lifted by the Mam Guðmundsson Banker at a meeting that reminds me of the Internet manufacturer Eyan and the snowpand.is a group of people - out of what did it go on? Its foundation was to be shaved from the grasslands 85%. This was considered a prerequisite for the removal of the currency bills. The rest is so totally right by the highest level. Secretary of finance that it was in a significant way that they were going to do so, not as expanded and, among other things, assumed the cooperation between the Secret Bank and the Pension Fund. They knew. The banks were to move to the Icelandic State and then to the market, the pension fund was to arrive, and they were to profit. I always felt that way and a spokesman for it could profit from it. Why? Because we all have a social capitalite. I thought about the position the pension fund was then. They were then assumed to have lost enormous funds, and they could be promoted in this way. I also thought of it, and there the Specialist Party goes on to say that when it came toward the end of the first trimester of 2013, it was creating very good conditions for making deals with the demands. Well, it was quite a bit, as I have said publicly, thanks to the forward party. He went out so aggressively in the campaign that, along with the large way that that that election struggle was about ways to achieve success with the demands, caused them to experience tremors in their knees. I thought of the conversations I was supposed to have that might be creating conditions to negotiate with them. Of course, those were very difficult political conditions. There was an election coming. This, however, was raised as a possibility of the present financial minister. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir, not only reminds me of her speech at the National Bank meeting but also also of an interview with the Business Journal, where she literally mentioned this possibility and also stated in what way that government could only protect the possible boundaries that would be involved in reducing the debt of the State. That's what we're talking about. That was a clear basis for what we were thinking. I am well aware that in these circumstances, when total elections lie ahead, it is difficult to achieve political solidarity on such manifestations. There was no other way to attack him. It was shot down, the forward group did so with a famous article of the present and current vice president, the highest. A seafaring and agricultural minister Sigurding the Sigurður of Ingi Jóhannsson, who thought it was out of the question. The head of the advance party, now the highest. Prime Minister, made a consistent comment on his homepage. All right, well, it doesn't matter that when the government changed, it could have been continued. You see, in 2013 the only shot that the money manager said it had in it was to create the conditions for the moment where it could be put on. By the end of 2013, the conditions that still exist began to develop, even though they are dwindling to do so. Those conditions were the next clear. Here in Iceland, there were high interest rates as they traveled abroad rapidly and eventually led to an increase of 0 in some countries. In neighboring lands, there were even cases of negative growth. Of course, the differences in interest between Iceland and abroad prevented the crown's escape. He further inhibited the search for financial resources in favor of the ban. Other developments were also in progress then, the difference between economic growth at home and abroad. In Iceland, economic growth has been a success since mid - 2010. Those who predict the start of the financial heavenly bodies saw that the AGS plan had gone down almost on a spot and a stick. In 2010, a certain economy was predicted until 2017, and all of it has been going on. At the same time, however, the economic growth in Europe and the United States was greatly diminished. In such a situation, when the growth gap is in favor of Iceland and is large, and when there is a difference between home and abroad, there is the best conditions to stop the currency lords. Then there is the period to pick up the Sullaby Bank load and get shot off. In his last report on financial stability, that statement was made almost by the Sustainer. Then there is literally a very strong message to the Icelandic government: It is now to attack. It seemed to be late, and at that point, one of the Directors of the Federal Bank was presented, which was simply the result of the Council, the Commission, and the nation. Sigríður the daughter of Benediktsdóttir literally put it to death - but the people were not ready. Within the government, there was a disagreement about routes, disagreements as to whether to take the contract route, or failure. This disagreement, among other things, led to the greatest conflict. The secretary of finance said yesterday that it was time for a deep assessment of the failure route. V.E.G. A financial minister told us that it took a year to make that assessment. However, the decision was not made on the part of the government to go along and take advantage of the beautiful conditions before October or November of last year when the Supreme Court of Justice, which basically came to the conclusion that if currency was available, the exchange manager in an airsaver would have the authority to pay off the nest. It is also so that there is no specific authority or no one can appoint a switcher if he wants to do this. As a result, humans finally realized that the collapse process was not technically possible. Hence, in the final sense, one - handed men finally took up the business route as the highest possible. The minister of finance had been well prepared, but this took time. This delay cost something. How much is a year of capitalism? A year ago it was hit by a business agency, and it was reported in the media. That's 80 billion. A recent report published by Ásgeir Jónsson and Hersir Sigurgeirsson concluded that conflict within the government, a conflict of the highest degree. Secretary of the budget at the highest. Prime Minister, the bankruptcy route would have delayed the process by a year. The report made by the editor of evidence Benedikt Jóhannesson and presented here during the days had the same conclusion. Experts who have examined this matter may well conclude that the process of degradation has been delayed for a year because of these conflicts. I believe that there is some evidence that it has been delayed for a year and a half. Then we can see that this conflict and this wanton movement around the bankruptcy site has cost the total number of Icelandic society 80 to 120 billion. Animals would all be Hafliði by the Navy. As my speech ends, I'd like to say that the basis for this whole project is, of course, the economic structure that Iceland has experienced in recent years. There, all the governments that have served have worked very hard. This government has done much good in this regard. She has followed the plan AGS set out just as the previous government in effect did. When people now review the situation, I find that one political party has gone very hard in accusing others of taking the interests of foreign interests, the vultures' funds, against Icelandic interests. It's hard to put up with. It's been very difficult for me. We've all walked out here as well as possible. No one has ever had to be as harsh as a scourging. paritaprevir Steingrimur J. Sigfússon. On top of what the rest of us have had to sit on the top. The prime minister and various aspects of his meal have a reason. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's mask in the last days and weeks had to be placed under special testimonials about his mismanagement of U.S. demanding banks and costing Icelanders enormous sums of money. One of the things that is right now, when you read the so - called adage that can be found on the website of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and when you review the report of the bill we are here and when you try to X - ray the information that the government itself has provided, the decision to make about the banks at its time was the best decision. The financial contributions they made by the United States all return, much more than that. One thing that rejoices at this conclusion, which is the same as we had previously said in those most dreary places, is that, fortunately, all the costs will be recovered, seems to me, which the government had to put out in order to restore the economy. Of course, this does not mean that homes, individuals, and businesses some of whom had to carry heavy loads will be improved. In any case, it is relevant for us who were accused of making wrong decisions and wasting the money of Icelandic taxpayers on this structure that will come back every dollar. There's a lot of news for at least me, Mr. President. I want to finally say that one phase is over. Seven years is over. What we're working here now, though, is merely abduction of the currency registers. Now another six - to - seven - year process takes place before the currency capitals in the present form can be said to have been collapsed. I refer to a person who seems to have been a major involved behind this, the old negotiater of the previous government inherited by the current government, Buchheit Buuchy, said in the RUS two days ago: It's just the first part, followed by a six-to-seven-year process to eliminate the seas. I fear that, despite all of this, when it is successful and we no longer live under the threat of the stability of the rovers, it will be found that it will be free to move money between countries, which many expect to follow will not be as rich as men have drawn up. Still, we will live with seas. They will be in a different form, but I think it can be said that once the long process is over that lies ahead, it will still be ill and difficult and has oceans, different seas.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u51	Mr. President. In 1st. The bill on the stabilisation tax is referred to as the object and the purpose of it. The second bill, on the desperate agreements, is in support of this bill. This is made clear in paragraph 1. Stability of the tax bill to aim for this action is economic stability and public interest. It's the guide, that's the goal. I want to ask you why. A member of the council how he feels about the words of economic stability. The concept can be far - reaching. It can be an economic stability, although the sting of the population is narrow but the sting of the country may be wider. Then I refer to practice, investments, private consumption. It is quite clear that the more broken - up space, especially if they go to the emergency agreements, the stability curve that will then define, the more large it is for the swelling, the greater the advantage of the population as soon as possible. The more you can get out of the country, the less you will be able to use in good use, investments, construction of jobs, and personal consumption. So I would like to ask the senator if he is well involved in these matters - I have been asking - that he can answer how the second bill will affect this. The late bank seems to be planning on making a decision sometime. When? I heard in the fall that he was going to make a decision on what this space is so that he gives the broilers a certificate to go to the emergency contracts. What is the scope of that, and what is the assembly's visit to do so? It seems to me that the council should have no access to it. I've heard that Congress is supposed to be proposed, but then I've also heard that it's not to be done and that it should only be informed the council. Does the senator know more about this matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u52	I've understood the two words as easily as possible. A senator read up the economic stability found in Article 1. so that the aim is to ensure that the measures we are about to take will not weaken the foundation of the gang so that it could lead to some kind of collapse or some kind of change in public land flows because of changes in consumer products prices and natural conditions on the mortgages that would have very negative consequences. That's why I remember that I think we had it. A senator has ever discussed this chair with him about the possibility to unplug the index when this is done. At least I thought that was one of the things to consider. The question of how the assembly will be held, I cannot answer. This has not been shown to be in the highest court. Secretary of finance so I have heard and not at all the highest. Prime Minister. However, I believe that when we finish this discussion today, there is a great deal of work in relevant professional committees, which will be expected to be only a financial and business committee, although I believe that a financial committee should also come up with this sort of case, that's such a big deal, and there men with their X - ray eyes go through the reports and ask out of the hand of our senators who are not sitting there. I believe the Council can pass suggestions from the Economic and Business Committee when we discuss this in the summer at 2nd. had something to say. In case of a moment. For example, a member of the Parliament believes that there is a need for further access to the case at some later stage, e.g. need to confirm any decisions made by the Council in the cooperation of the European Commission, I believe it is in my opinion that if any, the council will agree. A senator would offer strong reasons for this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u53	Mr. President. You see, this is so important. I think I agree. A senator that the economic stability on which it is being found lies in the stability of the crown's gang. I haven't really got that figured out yet, but I guess it is. If this is the aim and whether it is the stable tax route or the swelling process goes to the emergency agreements and gets, by turning money into the Secret Bank, a document from the Secret Bank that they can take to the courts to get the approved forced sale, both items are returned into the Sentred Bank. On the other hand, there will be money just over 500 billion in each case, so the question is, How is it possible for the council to take care of it? It is stated in the bill that it should do so within the framework of the economic stability and stability conditions of the National Bank, but this is still in the running account within the Federal Bank as the State owns and under the stable tax bill it is quite clear that the provision of the funds will be in the bill. As far as I know, it won't stop the government that puts up a budget bill in this cakebox, 500 billion bucks. A cakebox, in the Penitentiary Bank, using it for something that increases the build-up and inflation, drives out a loan, reduces the space to negotiate better contracts, etc. There will be no stopping the legislature from going to this hearing. Norwegians have locked their oil reserves in order to make sure that the oil supply does not become floundering and causes instability and harmful effects in their economy. If you're going to get something more than on the grounds that he's been locked up, locked up by the politicians, they're going to have to change the whole system by taking the initiative to turn the bill, not just in that kind of money. [[The president calls.]] How does the senator feel about this?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u54	Mr. President. What a remarkable depression! Senator. I've understood this so that what's coming out of this to Iceland and makes space, i.e. due to the stability commitment, or through the stability tax, enter the Seal Bank. According to Article 34. law on the Penitentiary, I recall it to be the article, that is, the part of the Federal Bank's profits that do not directly increase his own money according to what is needed to the State, and the government has the authority to make it happen. What matters most, though, is that these phenomena are presented here in the form of a prime project on the grounds that this should only be spent for one purpose, in reducing the debt of the state. The only thing that can be called a budget that can be called a budget that can be said to be made up by the legislature that the legislatures are a lower interest rate. That's what I was criticizing earlier today, I thought it was the highest. Secretary of finance is about to talk about making room for tax doctors. For various reasons, I thought that we should use it for everything else. However, there is another story. The opinion of the Economic and Business Committee is all that matters when the case comes back into Congress. I suppose and have assumed that one of the criteria it presents, hopefully in mutual opinion or at least in all recognition, is a matter of fact that this money cannot be used for convulsive action but must go in order to pay the debt of the state. In fact, finding correct ways to do so will be a number of technical problems.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u55	A respectable president. It's nice to see this great attendance here at the Assembly Hall. It is clear that the husk of my speech has spread throughout the council. I have most of the less knowledge about the currency users and this legal class from a recent report or book that came out, Dr. Ásgeir Jónsson and Hersir Sigurgeirsson, which is excellently arranged, not just on the currency heads, but in a very good economic work. But before I get to that, I'd like to tell you that people are talking about now that it wasn't so bad a time or as cold in May, Iceland, since 1979. I was trying to recall it to myself with where I had been 1979, and I remember, though I'm not an old man, at least not compared to many people working at this workplace, no names in the context, that I was in the county of Hunsa County in the summer of 1979. I don't recall anything particularly cold at the time. But I remember a lot arguing about activation, mixed activation, and wearing T-shirts marked blending. Clearly, there was a great struggle, that I sensed even now when I was young. But I don't remember the dosing period or that kind of spoon in the history of the country. Since I was born in 1971, the year that the restoration took place after 12 years of power, it was remarkable to experience it at the end of 2008, in the middle of a fall, as it were, that you would have to take your tickets to a bank and take out a currency to take them abroad. That made me very Spanish. It was like waking up with a bad dream to be suddenly in that position. Because I have recently studied these periods and seasons in the political history of the country, it reminded me of what we have been through as a nation. Today, the end of this period in the nation's history does not necessarily mean that we have come out of the age of economic development that has marked it in recent decades and, in effect, the entire Republic of the nation. I particularly remember that after the last election, when statistics indicated that everything was going up, this would look better, I met my economic acquaintances on the road, about two years ago. He said to me: "Well, I guess we're at the beginning of an Icelandic vaccination that takes us about three, four years to blow up, and then we're going to have a unique, shut-down economic collapse because we're in the water, but it won't be as much as 2008. When you look around at the statements that have come down to you; a contest in promises of tax shrinking and mass construction, you wonder whether these words were not true; and if the story will not repeat itself again, it is absolutely inevitable that we are repeating this story over and over again. The issues discussed together are good. I am very happy that the method of negotiation was on top when it comes to the disposal of a mine. It's a pleasure because, up to the length of time, it seemed to be the highest. A prime minister would have attached himself to the so - called failure route. It is possible for humans to try as hard as possible to argue or to argue that it was a special form of government wisdom to hold on to matters that were possible, not to argue that it took time. The question I think is important: How much did this delay cost? Why wasn't this arrangement gone much sooner? I would like to resign from the government's report of Ásgeir Jónsson and Hersir Sigurgeirsson, a son of Wingerge, with permission of the President's permission of the recent history of the government studies: It seems that at first the government's advisers considered bankruptcy the best way to complete the treatment of fallen banks. This view was based on the sense that for bankruptcy, any demand would have to be paid in dollars. So if worn - out camps were to fail, they would be moved to deliver their currency to the Federal Bank in an international number. During a general discussion, this was called the bankruptcy route. However, on November 10, 2014, the Supreme Court was sentenced to be executed in the matter of Voluntary Corp. against Aresbank S.A. It made it clear that although all the demands of the Icelandic swollen population were calculated in the country's currency, there were no obligations to meet these same requirements in the kronos. By entering this dead end, government therapy seems to have been delayed for over a year. That's a thought - provoking question that needs to be answered. Clearly, there was a waiting situation when a new government arrived here in 2013. Whether this was based on a prior government plan or not has been a lot of talk. I think it's obvious, at least the result was consistent with what was planned there, but there may be no need to spend too much time wondering about it. To defend the government, it is only natural to take some waiting period when a new government will intervene. But I think that in the autumn of 2013, when men set out for the work discussed here, they hung too much into the bankrupt route, and the first few months began to explore and explore potentials for these materials. Then the judgment quoted in the report, as I told earlier, fell. Then Lee Buchheit vow came in, and the situation probably began to turn into December. I was interested in the introduction of these issues in Harpa at the beginning of the week how much emphasis was placed on the tax in the presentation, the tax that was a problem, and according to those who presented it on behalf of the government, it was possible to produce some 850 billion. There was a great deal of money on that number, 850 billion, and much more than 1,200 billion and a little bit of polarized that, according to law regulations, a figure of 20% of property can be removed, so if the tax did not happen, the figure would never have become 850 billion, but very likely 650 billion, so it would have been about 200 billion. In the event that the Court's declarations are relatively planned, it can be estimated to result in some 400 billion. What I'm doing here is wondering why things are never said exactly as they are. Why is it so important to draw up images that will not be considered more carefully, such as what I mentioned about the presentation in Harpa in these days? The same is true when we are discussing the matter here at the council. I started at the beginning of the week when these issues were presented to me to review a few of the above words about a conversation with the demanding workers. V.E.G. The prime minister has been repeatedly asked whether he should not talk to them and repeatedly say that there was no negotiation, and so on. You have to put yourself in crossword style when you're reading through speeches. Prime Minister. You have to put yourself in a particular position as if you were solving a puzzle and reading every word precisely because it is the same with the highest degree. Prime Minister and former U.S. Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld, who thought that 50% of his conversations with the press were about what he did not say. No, that's not what I said. If you look at my words accurately, that's what I meant here. Every sentence and every statement is pronounced, so it can be interpreted in a certain way afterwards. It's a rough custom, and unfortunately, it's a class that marks the entire government. The discussion in the country constantly involves some misunderstanding, some mistaken understanding that was expressed in the highest language. Prime Minister or Government plans, some definition of the word strax, etc. Nothing in this matter calls for a person's resolve to be as impenetrable and as vague in his plans as it really is. But the result, the method of negotiation, is a good result. I sincerely commend the government for it. I'm glad they landed. It is responsible, of course, but it places certain obligations on those in the economic regime of the country. It requires that the government be handled with great responsibility by what comes from these funds. It is very positive that it is written here to use this money solely to pay off the debt of state funds. But there's something else I feel is missing, there's something else we need to discuss in this context, that's the currency of the nation. How thought - provoking it must be for society when the demands are set down as much as this one's budget! In fact, they are willing to surrender their property so that they can abandon and complete their dealings with this economic environment, the Icelandic economic region. That's something we need to wonder about. Of course, there are questions about this subject, such as the currency, the inflation, the growth, and the standard of living that make the nation in the land. Are we now going to leave this crisis, this straitjacket of capital, in real life, to pretend that nothing has happened and to continue absolutely certain that this situation will never come back? The fact is that the currency's small size causes vast fluctuations, causing it to be risky to lend, resulting in a higher interest here than elsewhere. There was a very interesting summary of the Kingdom News in the days when the public's credit rates for housing were compared. It's heartbreaking to see how much more relaxed they are in this country. It's really completely unannounced. It is also of great concern that people will flee the country when economic growth is at the time of employment, when tourism, as it did last year, is providing some 303 billion people, even though they are moving from here because they no longer accept the conditions they are prepared for. Indeed, when people have such high interest, it has had to do with the Icelandic housing market that one usually never sees to pay off his loans. People usually buy houses based on payment capacity, i.e. whether the pay load is available each year, and not to the end, how that example will appear. This has led to our not having our home. This has led most people to view their apartment purchases as some process or experiment to save money. It's part of some people's pension savings. There is no real lease on the side of the housing market. The situation is really very unhealthy. This is not necessarily an answer here, but it must be something that the public in Iceland need to consider. It is irresponsible not to answer the voters when it comes to the question: Where is the goal? What happens now? How will humans prevent us now from moving into another disaster? It's amazing how many times we have been able to create a vaccination, as was the case here in the wake of the 2008 crash, which will blow up so eventually as we do, all the people in Iceland, public funds, our welfare system, remain with a painful forehead. I want to make it my final statement today. This is fine, but we need to think about the future, and we need to think that we are solving these issues and have an economy that is healthy and based on a future thought and is sustainable, that we are not always making new bubbles, blow them up, and then solve the next crisis in one or another.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u56	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I thought it would be good to know how he came into the picture that we had to look to the future on this matter. I think that's exactly the key. The big hole in the government plan, I believe, is that there is no answer to the question, and then what? If a person is going to be getting rid of capital capital, this operation is not in itself a decommissionment but only a preparatory procedure. You are living in a good way for that to happen, but you must have decided to answer the question about how money policy should be run here after the release process, i.e. Once the site is established, much of the problem will be removed, but only after the political instruments foretold for future activity will remain. The seas may never be completely removed, but to the extent that they can. Then there must be an answer to the question: Should we just continue with the same plan, i.e. The same money policy? Are we going to continue with the system in which we have; the price of an Icelandic crown, which is used exclusively by the public and the homes and small and medium-sized companies, while large companies and propertymen can use coins paid in international transactions and so on? That's the big hole in the plan, I think. I would have wanted to ask you why. A senator's vision of this is because it's not enough to say, "Hey, we're gonna take it off." You need to say, " What then? ' It's missing here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u57	A respectable president. These are good questions. There's a senator up here. I know we agree on which course to take in these matters. At least I feel that it is obvious that men should try to complete discussions with the European Union and film the euro. Of course, when Iceland does, there will not always be sun. Economic control must be maintained in a responsible way and so forth. However, we would expect to introduce more stability into the system. Perhaps we could arrange for a housing system that involves individuals, families, couples, eventually able to obtain a home, or a healthy lease on a healthy housing system. My political party, the bright future, is built around the ideologies to try to solve every case so that we look to the future so that we make this country viable for future generations, that we always predict, in every case solved, how we play it for the future. You must not forget in happiness the matter discussed here that, of course, this is a solution to a crisis, so you use it as a dramatic expression, here is a system of economics that doesn't work. It's a Band-Aid on a broken system. There is something that people need to keep in mind and not forget. Although the solution is good at this time, it is not a final solution.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u58	A respectable president. I want to agree with what. A senator, and I'm one of them, like a boy. A senator who believes that we need to adopt a larger currency and that we should join a currency alliance and be a member of a stronger environment. But I also respect other viewpoints, including In some way, we can continue to run the Icelandic crown. Then, though, there is a need to show how to do so. It is not enough to say: We are closing here on the European journey. Then some other plan has to be set out, some other choice. That's what I miss here. I missed that too when they closed down the European way for the winter. I also miss it now, when people put the most decent patch on the sick wound that is in our economic system, such as winter. A senator correctly mentions. It's not enough for us to say: "Hey, great, let's congratulate each other on this, but let's not say how we're gonna survive with the crown for a long time, because it's the root of this problem that's being solved here. So, then, when we have forgotten and fallen asleep in a sense, will people just keep going, and we will be in the same situation after some decades? That's what I'm worried about. I think this government is pretty blind to how these things all hang out when it says in one place that it's going to cancel insurance and then somewhere else it's going to move on to the Icelandic crown. It doesn't fit in with me. I think it's important that we try here, members of Congress, to demand that the government answer, or at least to cooperate with us in what way we will work to get an end to money policy in the long term.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u59	A respectable president. This is what voters need to wonder about when the next election is due and, fortunately, they are soon to be elected. These are the viewpoints that need to exist. And you need to keep that in mind why the crews are connected with their possessions here, like fooddor money. They actually say, "You can keep it here." It's going to be about 400 billion, which they just think is fooddor money, they're just fake property, it's just gonna be left behind. It should make some people think about it. I'm convinced that with Euro, we would succeed in promoting competition here. I am convinced that we would succeed by increasing our exports, increasing the support of the nation's economy, having more business. That's just how we can build up for the future. Happily, new employment factors have come in very strong and have increased these support for us. That is tremendously positive, and there is a trend that we need, of course, to work hard, not to detract. Therefore, it will not be said enough that what is being done here is temporary medicine. She's positive and successful, but she's not a solution to the future. What we have to do to prevent - and I don't agree with it. A member of the council where she says we might be looking for the same thing in a few decades, I might well believe that it could only happen in this decade, in the next ten years or so. Thus, humans must look to the future and create a system and create a system that is stable. It's a key element in these materials.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u60	V.E.G. President. In this case, we will discuss two basics, a bill on stable taxes, and a bill for the legal adjustment of financial companies, which has been thoroughly presented in the media, and a significant discussion has been made at the council, even though we have gone to the latter end of the year. ... aboutit. I call attention to the fact that both of these matters will be considered in a thorough consideration by the Allied Economic and Business Committee. I have to say, as it is, I always feel uncomfortable when the generals are prepared to comment on such big bills before all growls are buried. Men came out of the government's presentation glamorized, crammed in a talk chair, and expressed admiration for the product of the months to come. It hasn't been born without a long period of pregnancy, but my feelings were that men had not studied the matter well enough to account for all the claims made. I suppose, though, that a measure of man - made pleasure was centered on what men believed to be the methodology to reach a conclusion. Many in the administrative and administrative parts have rejoiced that this is a product of conversation and agreement, but there are some members of the board who have turned it down and talked about a conversation, that it is not a negotiation. All of this can make a difference. It really matters what the map is when you try to reach such a conclusion. I think what's happened has been some kind of a combination of these things, but the plan wasn't a deal. The plan was not to negotiate with the demands. Rather, it was government that subjected the conditions, created the boundaries, and I'm going to come to that only later. Men have also reviewed the history of the matter, having their minds skated back to 2008, also discussing the leading cause of the crash, and then considering the steps taken in the wake of the crash. There's not a lot of debate there, but I want to add one thing to this collection of information, and I've been struggling to look it up, and that's the contribution of Lilja Mósesdóttir, who spoke two things in the fall of 2008. She then discussed outlet taxes as well as special favors for deportations. She also did this repeatedly in 2009 before anyone else started to do such things seriously, since it was so that our guide, who was pressured by the nation at his time, the World Bank, did not want to see these solutions, at least. no doubles. He did not want to become a team at that time, although I am told that when you look closely at the sacred books of the World Bank, you can find some references in a bidirectional way that it should be possible, but he wouldn't do it at this time. That was repeated. This criticized Lilja Mósesdóttir'daughter and spoke not only for a special favor but also for an eviction tax. It was the fall of 2008 and repeated in 2009, followed by a much later statement made by the Sustainer. It is March 2011 that they are shaped into this form. We are dealing with unprecedented situations, and this requires unprecedented solutions. The question, then, is to have inside a table people who can think beyond the box, which made Lilja Mósesdóttir'daughter. When she first suggested these suggestions, she was ridiculed and ridiculed but then reduced the criticism and now wanted many Lilja's terms. Gradually, people began to discern the nature of the worn - out requirements because their original owners have long since disappeared from the table, perhaps nearly 1/10 of them left. Otherwise, these demands were purchased by new owners, from 70% to 96%. These assets were spoken of as a significant sale and as a purchase of 4% in value. We have heard it in this discussion when a person bows and bends to these demands that we need to show them tremendous respect, that is a respectable investment that needs to be treated respectfully. I don't have that respect in my heart. I'd much rather negotiate with the Micro-Lowing Alliance for the benefits of disability in Iceland. I'd like to negotiate with the people who are in a strike right now at the Land Hospital. It is a requirement for such respect. But these are the vulture investments that have been rightly called so, not just here on the land, it's spoken of ◯vulture capital, the 1% of money, that always hovers over where there's trouble and trouble trying to get something under the formula wins, losing the weight. It was reported that by March one such one had come in here flying, George Soros, who I often feel is a very knowledge of community matters. Despite his benefits, he has been critical of unreflinchable capitalism. He became famous when he struck the British pound in 1992 with fortune - tellers and made huge profits. This man bought in March of the month according to local media reports of Burlington Investment in demand for Glitnis to value 44 billion n., 44 yous. A million. K. He is said to have bought it for 27◯29% of the name value, which is now about 13 billion. The hope, then, was to walk out with 30 billion in profit. If it had been laid--we'd be laid, we haven't had that - 70% tax, yet George Soros would have walked out with several hundred million on his pocket. For example, they would have remembered something like this in the funds of the Land Hospital. With less than 40% tax, George Soros goes out with $12,013 billion for profit. A person who bought at 4% and sold George Soros, or similar, at 27 to 29% of their name value and had to endure 70% of the taxes went out by 100%. So, it's the men they've been talking about here all day, and today, about having to bow in particular and going around very cautious hands. I don't think so. They're supposed to put their chairs in front of the door, they're fortune - tellers, they're vultures and vultures trying to profit from troubled communities. That is why it is the perfect methodology to determine what it is that we are going to do. We were told at the beginning of the week when this was presented that the basic premise was that these assets should be placed under less than 40% stable taxation, 39%. Then, these 39% could be met by a different route to those contracts. I expect that in the case of the Economic and Business Committee, and after the case comes back to the council, we will be shown in the basis of this approach that we are getting the same or the same thing. There is something we need to listen to. It is so complex that it is not for anyone to understand unless he is introduced to work behind that bill. Of course, it was always known that there would be tremendous opposition to letting these companies go into bankruptcy because the interests are so gigantist, such as those who sit on break - ups and get their proposals in their hands. All the workers who come to these things in the forest of mammon see the tremendous profits by doing so. That is why it is spoken of in this way, and it is pacified at a body meeting of one member after another. I have not been convinced that it is better for the public, for the community to go this way, than that this tax has simply been applied and the collapse route has gone. I'm not convinced of that. I may not understand it well enough, but I'll allow myself to doubt that everyone in this room does. Some people may, but I won't. These are things that we need to get carefully examined. I think it's a little strange how little discussion has taken over this percentage. It's stuck there, 39%. Various people have been able to criticize her. Some associates in the Invenge group wrote publicly a few weeks ago, I wonder if it wasn't in February or March, since they said they were hoping it would be over 40%. They were named 60 to 470 percent. Lilja Mósesdóttir spoke of a much higher percentage. I spoke of 70%, but this percentage, 39%, has been stopped by men, and then there is tremendous joy in the demands of all the demands and violations that show that they will not become of their pleas because this journey is gone and not another. I think there's a lot more solid and more specific information to be set on the table for us. However, I would like to say that I have come to the point of being critical of the percentages, and I allow myself to join them in criticism. Then I want to consider other factors. It would be fine if they tried to silence this talk in the sideroom.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u61	The president asks for a sound.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u62	There's only one meeting here. What scares us is that we are back in take two. The late bank is beginning to increase interest again, increasing by 0.5%, it was reported yesterday, and the secretary of finance declares that there is now a need for an attack on taxes. This is just what happened here at the time, and I say, the way to reduce the strain is to use the strongest weapon we have against it, and that makes sense. It should be directed to the public and to the business to act prudently. Especially so is the government to be directed to. When the U.S. secretary of finance comes before them and begins to fan the flames of heavy metal, as he does, saying that the interests of people will be made more available because of tax doctors, he is suggesting that people are safe to engage in investments, that they will have more money to pay off their loans. This is a real concern to me. The other aspect of the discussion that we need to discuss in relation to these measures is the discussion of the banks. As I understand this, it has become the interests of the Icelandic government that the two private banks will be sold out of the country and on them as the highest rescind because of the fact that, at the time of the finish, only then, the government will benefit from this sale, which, of course, in itself is a very good thing. But then you start to think, " What then? ' What will be the result? Why do they buy banks? They buy banks to get the benefit of them. We need to think this far ahead of time, and it comes to the realization that the crews are setting up their wishes or conditions that they prefer, that banks will not be sold unless they go to foreign parties who maintain their ownership for the next five years, which is quite understandable to be at their height, that they can expect a measure of stability in this. There's one more bank left, and that's the Lands Bank. I'm going to allow myself to agree very firmly with the head of the Economic and Business Committee, why. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Sigurionson, when speaking for the Landsban to become entirely part of community property and not enough of it, but in a socially responsible way, to compete with other aspects of the financial system with low growth. But is that good? Is it possible to drive a bank into a lucrative way out of the environment in this respect? Yes, it is possible. Let us never forget that the bank of the state - I'm talking about the banks of the past, the Bank of Store and the Bank of Land - was never fired at the expense of society. On one occasion, the Lands Bank was temporarily in need of government assistance. It was in the early 1990's, and it was all paid back. Then it was a possession that had proved to be successful in private hands, and we know what happened. Now, let's let this become a teaching. We're supposed to keep the Lands Bank with ourselves, not as a business banker, but as a business banker for the people of the country who are trying to keep interest and to run financial systems out of responsibility. A worldwide requirement is that we try to separate ourselves from financial resources. In these spirits, there have been ideas, e.g. in various rural areas in the United States, that banks will be founded to take care of the local society and the service to the people who build these cities. Why not take this course? We'll see where the other one's been leading us. When I heard why. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Sigllionsson, on these lines, made my heart rejoice, and I want to use this talk to make a good decision with him in this regard. I think it mattered - and it still matters - we haven't taken care of these matters - that the crews know that the Icelandic government is ready to act with great determination toward them. That is why these letters and properties were kept very low. When that belief was lost, people began to dare more, as Soros did in March, when he attacked the purchases I was discussing earlier. V.E.G. President. I wanted to take part in these historical factors, in this discussion that began in the fall of 2008, with the initiative at that time. paritaprevir Lilja Mósesdóttir. At first, she picked up a lot of ridicule and wood, but now everyone's looking for Lilja's watch. It was at that time that our spiritual leader in life, the World Cash Fund, did not cover up the suggestions she offered, especially with regard to the doubleness or variety, but then these ideas began to fan out. I would like to join in the chorus that celebrates our approach to this matter, but I would like to have less financial and business committees, as well as members of the council, and all members of Congress, that our discussion on this matter is not over. There are a lot of questions left to ask. Is this, for example, true or is it not true, as I have previously concluded, that the stability of tax stability is 39% in value? No, it's not true, but it was said in the presentation. Then let's just find out exactly what the reality of this is, let's get all these facts on the table. I don't understand them, but I've been trying to read them and I've come to understand them better. I don't think that's what they're gonna do when they sit over the basics of the Economic and Business Committee, but there's some questions left. I would be happy to find the answer to the question of how this number, 39%, was found. How was it found? Critics such as Lilja Mósesdóttir and Indefence have said that the cost of the crash was far more than taxing now. It gives convincing reasons, but on the other hand, I'd also like to say as a Mexican approach in this case that although I don't have any sympathy for these vultures, I don't feel that we should become shareholders in such thinking, that we're going to try to make a lot of money. We are trying to do things as well as we can and get out of this collapse and the consequences of it as well as we can. We're not walking between the T-shirt and the capitalist's head, unfortunately, there's more to it and bigger people than us. We are not doing this, but we are doing our best to cope with the worst consequences of the collapse of our financial system and of our community in general. There is no doubt that this collapse has caused us tremendous damage, and we tried as much as possible during the last term to protect the most vulnerable of society's infrastructure. All of us agree, too, that as with what has happened at the Land Hospital, it was not always possible. We tried to do this, though. Perhaps the greatest victory involved was, in fact, our emphasis, but also in not resorting to resources, which, unfortunately, now seem to me to be a speck at the horizon, which is a privatization, a greater supply of markets into the hospital area and the community's supporting systems. That's what I'm afraid of. This included the importance of getting on the throne of power that wanted to promote society's balance, wanting to protect society's infrastructure, trying to attack tax changes that were in the interests of the least but at the expense of the very poor. This was characteristic of the government that was the last elected period, and it is the opposite of what we see happening today. I find it tragic and tragic to be happening. If there's something we're supposed to learn from, it's looking for the start of the crash, thinking about what happened then, and also seriously considering now whether it's starting to take two. We are under obligation to avoid doing so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u63	Madam President. In many ways, it was a wonderful talk. A senator, though not, would agree with everything. First, I want to say that I disagree completely with him when he says that he laughed. ex-wife. When Mósesdóttir'daughter, Lilja, made fun of her, said her ideas on multiple, or outing taxes, she made fun of her. I remember very well that this senator gave us a fairly learned discourse here, both outside and during the council on the eviction tax in Malaysia at the time as everyone, I think, was worth more than one Mass, and I believe that it was. A senator had ideas about the long-lived eviction tax. That government decided not to go that way. The other is a good idea. Not everyone in general and maybe not AGS, but I don't know about it. Hv. A senator then asks: "How was a 39% stable tax found out? In case of a moment. A senator would have listened carefully after a talk. A minister of finance would have heard, so I'm direct to the supreme. Secretary of finance, that it was a handmade group of demanding workers, and then they had conversations, not negotiations, but conversations with him and were listened to their attitude. 39% came out of this. Then maybe. A senator wondered what that means. Simply put, it means that a suitable group of demanding workers was made up of about 39%. That's what it says. A senator has to check if the stability spending is 39% stable tax. Hv. A senator may be able to calculate, and he has shown this better in the past. The properties of the swelling farms are 2,200 billion. V.E.G. Secretary of finance says that the pay that will come to the State will reach 500 billion. Counts 'em out. A senator that has 500 billion totals of 39% of 2,200 billion?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u64	V.E.G. President. I am looking primarily at the statements given here during a presentation on the subject. Then I'd like to call for more information about numbers, plans, bodies as a review of the Economic and Business Committee, to be expected to lead up to the table. About what? paritaprevir Only Lilja Mósesdóttir'daughter, I would like to keep her contribution in place because her experiences have been reviewed. I'm reviewing ideas that came out of the box in their own time. I draw attention to many of this ideologies now based on similar factors. That's why I said that a lot of people now wanted Lilja's orders. But I'm simply trying to keep this up, as well as what I'm trying to account for the criticism that has come from her, from the Invenge group, and from a number of others about the percentages that are put in place. A senator says that he is coming out of some sort of conversation or negotiation with demands. It's not enough for me either. I want to hear other reasons why this has happened in this way and why people aren't ready to take over that percentage. I don't think taking one of those 12.5 billion, 12,500 million that Soros is going to walk out here. That's what makes him 40% tax.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u65	Madam President. Soros and any other man who has the requirements for the stock market will naturally walk out with a good request. Whatever you say about the stable tax and how it's calculated, the highest. The prime minister named the figure 1,000 billion yesterday, though, that they pay much less. V.E.G. Secretary of finance has said that the stability spending will possibly reach up to 500 billion. That is much less than the value of the stable tax. The reason is that part of this bix is that the crews get a very special request for this contract. Then they give up all the demands and possibilities of starting some sort of lawsuit. I specifically mention this to attract attention. The senator, according to the fact that there are several senators, including me, who wanted to go along, and I know why. A senator may have felt differently. However, this does not change the fact that those of us who had that opinion had to be put here as such and are accused of being some sort of land force. This is the case with the highest power. Prime Minister has a premise that humans are now traveling along the way of negotiations and that they give demands even to demands. to negotiate from the most stable tax that would pay. I find it necessary to underline the problem. A senator because it matters when a person reviews the course of this series of events that it is absolutely clear to the highest degree. The prime minister who thus spoke to those who wanted to go on the contract and said that they were almost half-baked men who planned to negotiate with the vulture treasure has personally been in contracts with the vulture fund in the past month. The result is that at the end of it, he even invites every worn - out house to remind me of a 60 billion requests from the stable tax to get to the table and write under it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u66	V.E.G. President. I haven't done the language as good as any. A senator pointed to mine. But I have said that if we as taxpayers enjoy the understanding that the demands of this hall have made governments sit down and agree with them, or micro-pigs, or others who receive their rations, or who are limited by the legislature or financial authority, there would be something other than the situation here. I think that what matters and has mattered, and the issue has been natural, each one of which has been raised. Have people made it clear that certain taxes should be placed on these farms, on those property, are they any matter of importance and are more likely to give us good results than the other to settle down to a bargaining table on which they naturally have no moral rights? All talking about treason is natural nonsense and that something else has been watching for anyone in this business but good and doing good for our people, I have never doubted. We are discussing the matter objectively and have been doing so over the centuries in order to deal with these issues. And now we are trying to evaluate the facts. I wouldn't vote against the rise of this tax, and I'm not one of those who would cry it a lot if some of it had been taken in bankruptcy, even though there had been a few hundred million million. K.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u67	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss here with the two basics involved in the budgeting process. On one hand, there is a bill for a law on stability tax, case No. Seven hundred and eighty-six that can be found on a deck. 1400. On the other hand, we are discussing a bill about a change in financial law, No. 161/2002, with subsequent changes and with regard to the fixed contract search. That's a case of No. 737 and may be found in the threshing floor. 1401. In the past, the Council had cleared up the issue of No. 785 p.m. 1398 Sunday in connection with this strategy, related to the same subject as we address here, i.e. The plan of delinquency, etc. to sue for change in currency law, No. 87/1992 with subsequent changes, according to the budgetary rules, to decommission, etc. and aimed at supporting the proposed government measures to relieve capital capital capital capital capitals to prevent and face potential dangers that could arise in what might be called subterfuges. In fact, we were here hardening our heads on this great Sunday so that we could free them and pay the road to freedom. Before discussing the two basics mentioned here, I feel that I have every reason to reiterate what I came up against the dog. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir, i.e. I'd like to congratulate the government, the Congress and the nation on the program that the government formally introduced in Harpa and appeared to us in the two primes we'll discuss here and the highest. Secretary of finance recommended yesterday. As I would like to thank you for the hard work that lies there, as we see on the plan and the projections. The work there seems to be nice and good, so I thank them for their advisers and specialists, both those who were particularly involved in this difficult work and those who served in our powerful administrative institutions and resources in connection with this work. Then I'll come to the premiere. They are both important and important when it comes to budgeting emissions. According to one reference work, the bill to fix a stable tax mood provides the basis for decommission and reference to Article 1. The bill shows that it is about goals and arrangements. I'm going to the main part to have this 1st par. to guide the talk, as well as the objective and arrangement, but the goal is according to Article 1. to contribute to the emissions of capital wastes with economic stability and global benefits. To this end, taxation is recommended for which negative effects are expected in relation to the end of treatment with tax-related agents. And, by permission of the President, we say: The financial and financial stability goals of the budget should be consistent with the financial and financial stability of the budget. I feel that it is very important to look at the matter in accordance with these goals. Two. The bill then discusses taxable authorities, which are the financial companies who used to work as business banks and savings, and who are undergone treatment, or who have completed such treatment. If we continue to look at the bill as it happens to them, the total taxpayer's resources are in accordance with Article 2. Which I mentioned here. The total share is then included as they are at the end of 2015. It then stipulates the value of different possessions according to the local law, and I do not intend to discuss it exactly here. I'm gonna stop at 4. The bill. The tax rate is about 39%. You can ask yourself, " Why is it 39% and not some other proportion? ' Hv. paritaprevir The horror of Ögmundur, the son of Jónasson, was before me in a talk and wondered about the factors. That's a question. A financial and business committee should go over and ask about it because as the plan impresses us, there is really only two ways to do it, a steady-up or a tax. Both routes should provide the same conclusion, as presented in the case. A paper with the bill shows that the only value is whether the total tax stocks are domestic or foreign. Of that strain, 39% of the tax is calculated. Also stated, by permission of the president, on page 20. 35: The percentage decision was made to significantly reduce the negative impact on the financial balance and balance that would otherwise result from the development of broken farms and their spending to non-profit budgets. Also, on page 19. 36 estimates are that in the United States alone, tens of total property will be about 35% of their total holdings as they are at the end of 2015. It is also suggested that the domestic property of broilers is a threat to the stability and release of capital resources. The decision was made that the impact of gang changes on in the land's inflation has been increased among other countries, who support inflation targets. Here, to some extent, it reflects the thought and main objective of my visit to Article 1. to protect economic stability and the general good and therefore are fundamental interests put here. I think it is important to draw them into the perspective here, for they reflect the underlying objectives of this whole and overall plan, as well as the extent to which a complex project is being developed. I'm getting an understanding of this ratio, 39% through the report, both the goals and the proportions that we can see. If we take the domestic property of the broken - up population and put it in the numerator and total property, we'll get about this ratio. Otherwise, it wasn't going to be about 1st. I'm gonna go to the stitches of every law the bill on the stability tax is holding, and I'm going to close. The Economic and Business Committee, that's our diagnostic work. I'd rather discuss goals and economic importance. These bills are, provided, of course, that they become legal, an important part of a whole plan and form together with the other measures and conditions of the decision-makers have to try to achieve contracts and aim changes in the bill to legalize financial companies to facilitate long-term and adequate negotiations. It is suggested here in the bill that the requirements for contract search are simplified, that a stable tax should be paid in accordance with the regulations set there. It can be understood that those broken - down citizens who fail to go by the next year's convention will be allowed to pay stable taxes. This is likely, then, what some have called a yellow root in the form of contracts or clubs, which is the tax, and to quote Dr. Sigurður Hannesson, a replacement group for execution. In an interview, he says that this is the key issue regarding government methodology. He emphasizes that the talks under the demand have been, not negotiations, but meetings with these parties and that they were made aware of the two options. Yet, the presentation of judging and announcements and all the news that we have seen during the past few days brings us to the message of the biggest demands in the camp has been positive, since they have expressed a willingness to accept the conditions of stability set out. This is likely to refer to the conditions involved and, as demands, must take over when they go on a contract, and it is called a steady forward. The requirements for this are in six joints to ensure the payment of the stability of the current clientele and to reduce uncertainty about the future recovery of crowns. These stability conditions must be met entirely by the end of 2015, otherwise taxed. In addition to this issue's discussion and as part of the programme for these key elements, it has been reported that the latening bank has published a report on the release of capital wastes in which the website of the Central Bank and the Warrants can be seen. A minister made a good account of his speech. The announcement says, which I think is important to have here a reference to the plan and to get some context in it by permission of the president: In the process of granting annuity to fallen financial companies, Iceland's New World Bank will look to its steady-state target. In this regard, the Navy will take into account the possible solutions of the problem that have been identified in the information exchange of the Workgroup on emissions of capital resources and the representative of the demands and break-off of: 1st will be made up of measures that will reduce the negative effects of paying the value of property in Icelandic dollars, 2 that other domestic holdings of fallen financial companies in foreign currency will be converted into long-term financing to the extent needed and 3 to ensure that, in the case of this, the loan of the government in foreign currency paid by the new banks following a financial exchange collapse will be reimbursed. At the end of this report, it will be made clear that the approved release committee is based on the provisional Commission and the stability of the conditions. The solutions include the so - called stability process, including in a direct contribution to Icelandic dollars, which flows directly into the state funds and other measures that will be available for the completion of contracts. They can, in turn, accept these conditions and receive an exception to export money abroad. All this equipment is for reporting them. Thus, these laws will address most of the underlying problem of the payment system and threaten economic stability. It is the possession of broken - up homes, totaling some 900 billion, and divided into 500 billion in the possession of factions of lost financial institutions, and 400 billion in the demands of local citizens in foreign currency. With regard to these sums of money, the biggest problem lies in the property of the pair of fish. There is bound to be a decline in this scope and that is under the basic interest of the Icelandic nation. I say, small in comparison with these sums, for the total value is 1,200 billion. If we put it in any context, the accumulated total value of the snow arm, which is often called, is 60% of the gross domestic product, 60% of the value we create and produce in one year in the Icelandic economy. When we put the scope in context, we see the complexity and complexity of this project and its complex nature. The difference between 1,200 and 900, i.e. Three hundred billion are in so - called highlands. The solution to the problem of reporting on the Ministry of Economic Affairs is very clear on how to deal with this problem. At the same time, the presentation that we saw her and heard how to deal with the challenge. Of course, the Off-counters provide a problem with the disposal of high-growing commercial property in foreign countries, which can be expected to have a significant impact on the quality of the performance if an attempt was made to remove all of them at once. Of course, considering all of this, we are not in a position to get rid of this, as has often been discussed in the past, to let it all float. The national evasion agent is solved by the auction of currency and the sale of bonds in Icelandic dollars and euro by a remuneration process that conforms to the payment of the population. The owners of a deli can choose between three costs. The first one is a currency auction, then it's an investment in long-term government bonds, and the third option is interestlessly locked accounts, so it's certainly an incentive to invest in the country, I think it's very reasonable. The auction method ensures that all deportations will be restored. If you're a student, you'll pay for it, and you'll pay for it, you'll pay for it, so you'll pay for it, and you'll have the cost of getting rid of capital capital capitals. It should be noted, however, that the problem has been won by the bank's regular payoffs and has been won down by the information available from Iceland's Secret Bank from 600 billion to the 300 billion remaining, according to the figures presented in the Harupt on the Harpa side of the government. I would like to finally mention the cumulative needs of investments that have developed in pensions. This is the third part of this program that targets the real economy, as it is said in the plan, and to some extent in the public, individuals, and companies. The Pension Fund will be authorized to invest abroad for 10 billion a year, which is about one quarter of the clean influx of the pension fund. The amount of money has come to demand the expense of what they feel would be needed and sufficient to maintain their foreign redistribution ratio. This, hopefully, will and will block any of the pressures it creates on the domestic market and can have a sexual effect on the economy. Increased concentrations and stability have been observed, as it were, in the mood of ideal candidates for today's delinquency. Then there are the long - term negative effects caused by a negative impact on the job life, where free flows of capital are in the way of, or reduces, and inhibits foreign investments and participation in future investment projects. This is shown here because there is truly reason and, as a result, has always been an effort on the part of the government to solve the problem. Such thinking is long - term, and many stakeholders and experts have pointed to the long - term negative effects of failure, although there is certainly a positive result. There is indistinguishable necessity. However, uncertainty may also reduce domestic investment, and it has been noted that despite the actual increase in production during the past few years, the investment has not been achieved. This reduces the ability of the economy to produce valuables that eventually affect the future well - being and standard of living. Then the oceans can have an abnormal effect on financial market prices and produce so - called property bubbles, as I said before, as evidence is even found in a real estate market. If such bubbles cannot be controlled, as we have now experienced, but here we are talking about disproportionate prices, they can disrupt financial stability. The effects are strong, and here I am, to the pension fund. Their activity becomes more publicized at home. For example, one of the Pension Funds in registered letters on the market was about 36%. The extent of their activity is worth considering. The seas inevitably affect all international cooperation, so I now say no more, and as such, they cross the liberty of budget transport under the EEA Convention. The EFTA Court considered it to be so in the light of the circumstances at the time that it had been the right thing to do and that we had every right to put on capital authority here, but it's certainly starting to make a difference. It is difficult to accurately evaluate the costs of seas, but the costs made under these circumstances certainly prevent the efficiency of manufacturing and production factors from being manned, natural resources, and all the production tools we use and the entire sector. The economy will suffer, and the cost will inevitably come to the public, who may not feel daily for the seas where capital movements and currency exchanges due to trade and services have generally been unlimited; for the capital authorities have been so principled, which is spoken well on page. 6 on the bill, by permission of the President: ▪... that commercial transactions, unless specifically forbidden, are permitted, and trades that are considered to be financial are forbidden, unless they are specially permitted. There's a lot of whisks out here. Although local council members covered the timeliness of the situation, they have been standing for seven years, and it is noteworthy that at that time there have been no practical suggestions provided by the Ribal's demands. As I said before, it was inevitable to place the oceans on here, that is undisputed, and was the means to respond to the situation we experienced after a collapse to stop the discharge of currency and fall on the crew of the crown. Similarly, it was necessary to create space to work on a financial program that was then being worked out in cooperation with the International Cash Fund. It can be said that from this time of November 28, 2008, the Navy set up rules and lifted all the heads of the currency exchange for products and services and took up very strict restrictions on capital movements, that the capitalists have contributed until this day to the restoration of the Icelandic economy that has been achieved, and helped to achieve the development required for us to deal with the work we are going to do and discuss. Among other things, the crown's gangs have been more stable, the price of possessions has remained, and the collapse that could have occurred has been less than that, even though real growth here is much too high, and in fact, the burden of employment and the public has become burdensome and will inevitably go into the prices. I have to say, I'm worried about the growth that the Secret Bank Board of Money decided and announced last night, in effect, further increases. For a discussion of the bill on page 18. 7 is also referred to as an important haven of international instability and the need to take steps for financial restructuring and the opportunity of the government to shape the desired economic arrangements. I'd like to say, though, that these capitalists have enabled us to rebuild the economy in such a refuge. At the same time, it has been observed in the discussion that the time point in March 2012 was to prevent the development of fallen financial companies from culminating economic stability has been a very successful step. And because I hear what. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson, who's been very busy with the conversation, he's taken care of things, and he's been here in the audience, they were happy. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson and the highest. The prime minister, who considered these milestones to be of great importance. Here I have discussed basics from main sources and their objectives and as part of the overall plan as the highest. The government has now declared the release of capital crisis. Since the explosion of money here, with enormous sums of money in the economy, we have struggled with this financial problem, so extensive that the oceans were inevitable, for it was of a magnitude that threatened economic well - being and national goods. This impending problem has often been called snowpants, and it is 1,200 billion, as mentioned earlier. He is the obstacle we are now going to replace. It consists of the domestic property of fact, the demands of the population of foreign people in foreign currency and of the Off-count interest investors, as I did earlier in my speech. The social cost resulting from the collapse and restoration of the financial system that had to be attacked is expressed by a huge debt of state funds and the growing burden we are dealing with, which is up to 80 billion each year. This is made clear in the policy of the present government and in the national budget of discipline and maintenance, the prerogative of resistance and the debt of state funds and, hence, the weight of interest I mentioned here. It is also a clear goal of the highest. Governments lowering this interest load. I made up the decision to raise the money policy committee in a review with the decision that is largely linked to the newly established agreements. With the permission of the president, I'm going to quote that statement: ▪ In the declaration of the money - policy committee, some of the newly diagnosed government measures aimed at making the best of living for the disposal of capital flotation are going to earn financial money. It is important that the measures taken are not to further increase tension in national development by activating the amount of money that has been currently disabled. Here is what I came at the beginning of my talk and is found in paragraph 1. The bill on goals, as well as a provision. It is of utmost importance that we cooperate with the program that has been published for us and that the project will be as successful and as successful as the plan will appear to us in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u68	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson for an extremely dramatic and profound discourse shows that he has studied this matter more fully with most members of the council. First, I'd like to agree with him on the Court decision and the hard statement that I felt was the cash manager of the bank for the continuation of interest rates. I feel that there are all indications that we will see here in the months that are going to have considerable interest, and in many ways, this is not a good start. But this room has no say in it. Hv. The senator reviewed the advantages of those initials to demands, which, in fact, were long well off. A senator called vulture funds, but we're just calling a party today. On the one hand, there is stable tax, and on the other, if the demands meet the so - called stability conditions for a particular time. Maybe I'm gonna do it. A senator's knowledge of the matter is too great, but I would like to ask if he can answer the following questions: What is the difference between the stabilisation tax and the reciprocation if all the fragments were to pay a full tax, and on the other hand, if they all met the requirements that each one of them will take? Now I don't know if this number exists, I've only figured it out grossly, but I can snooze. A senator told me what's the difference?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u69	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson for the answer and the question. This is clearly a question that needs to be considered and considered. The Economic and Business Committee. If I remember the number correctly, and then I refer to the presentation I sat and looked at and what I've read in the prime projections, it's so that if everyone pays a stable tax, it's about 850 billion. Then it is suggested that either way you choose, you should give the same result. Some may now choose the way of negotiations and others may not. Then, of course, we need to consider how the interaction will be made, how to say that the frame, these two ways, makes the same decision. I would guess that the total number would be somewhere in the range of 5,500,600 billion, as mentioned in the discussion. [[Up front.]] - Not the difference, total number. Then we can try to figure out the difference, somewhere in between.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u70	Mr. President. I don't blame you. A senator for not being able to name the number, I don't know it myself, and I haven't been able to understand it completely. But I wonder, if I find out which way either way is going, how can men talk about the whip and the root? What, then, is the motivation for worn - out preparations to meet stability conditions rather than a stable tax? I think there must be some misunderstanding here. Then I refer to an interview with the highest. A secretary of finance who now only three days ago said that wearouts could save a considerable amount of money if they chose to rely on stability and meet conditions rather than on stable taxes. That's how I understood it, of course. But for me, it's also of the highest importance. The minister of finance told us that it was what he called conversation. A senator referred to Dr. Sigurður Hannesson, who said that the conversation had not been a negotiation at all. Yet, the highest. The secretary of finance that during those two - month conversations, at least two months of age, they would have been listening closely to the bickering attitude of how to reach the destination that the Icelandic State wanted. I have in front of myself an discharge for the Department of Economic Affairs Homepage. It shows that these so - called stanzas or cross contracts between parts of the rover's crew and the developers were signed before the famous press conference was held in Hauppe. Then I come to the conclusion that despite everything, negotiations have taken place that have led to a conclusion adopted by men for the meeting and made a request of a figure that neither I nor I had. þm. Willum Thor Þór Thor Thorsson knows what's high. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u71	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Aggressor, who later received the answer and speculation, was completely familiar with the matter and was the highest. Minister of the last government and have been here all this time. [[Up front.]] - No. But we can ask ourselves, " What is the purpose of this arrangement? ' The requirements are, as the text in which I have in mind this matter, irrespective of the government's interference with the future effect of an expansive arrangement. I have no basis for understanding the motivation to go either way. Surely, it differs according to the nature of the demands and the composition of a chipper, so it is impossible to determine. However, these conditions are certainly set forth to ensure fundamental interest rates and to reduce uncertainty about future recovery. It's as close as I can get in this counter, huh? Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u72	V.E.G. President. First of all, it is proper to declare a special pleasure that this matter is being placed on its own track. This discussion, which has been very good, has contained a few historical explanations, and the story has been reported on. In 2008, 2011, or 2012, the person being present was out of business and therefore does not have to compete with anyone. The 2008 emergency laws made a big difference, and they have held to this day and have done very well. Similarly, on March 12, 2012, the law under which the property of demands was locked up in this country has also proved to be very effective. However, the strategy prepared in 2011 for decommission or disposal is very small in common with what we are discussing today because there was no such plan on requiring such an action. There is, however, a different matter. I feel somehow as if, in a case, a few of the above talks were given, that since 2012 nothing happened. Of course not! When the present government came into power in 2013, this problem was already under way. Then they put in a group of shepherds and women who are very grateful for their work in this, how they have prepared this matter. But somehow it wants to be that way, or somehow it's been that way, at least to my ears, in this discussion as part of it. Congress officials do not want to know who is who has had a clear view of this matter from the beginning, i.e. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Prime Minister Davíð Gunnlaugsson Even what? paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson has joined the song at the height of the song. For two years, the prime minister was engaged in this case without any involvement and causing harm to the country and to the nation for that reason. [[Up front.]] I'd like to say what. A senator and I hope I may, Madam President, quote Júlíus Sesar when he said about the year Et tu, Brute? I'm sorry. I'm sorry. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson, one of the most reasonable people here in the hall, should have agreed with this unfortunate shoe to the highest degree. The prime minister has at some point or with any action or inaction to delay this matter. Of course not! On the other hand, the conclusion of the matter is extremely practical and hopefully will have a profound effect on all of us into the future. That is exactly what has been discussed in the discussion, including the question. paritaprevir Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir, that this operation alone does not reverse the damage caused by this society in the collapse, far away. But the operation such as this has fallen to provide good resistance to society, and it is almost certain to remember having the funds that come out of these measures, i.e. Either 850 billion stable tax, or approximately 700 billion under stability conditions. It's more likely that, in a single session, you will be able to pay up the bank's debt and have money that can reduce the debt of the state to nearly half. Certainly, Madam President, that following this action, the growth or interest cost of the Icelandic state, the state's budget, is likely to decrease by 3,35,440 billion each year. Indeed, there are money that can be used for good works, and many things come to mind that could be used without, using ben, exalting here, or delinquency. This may be the point of the information presented here that it is designed to free the head without disturbing the crew of the crown, or at least, and to have a beneficial effect on the benefit of the entire population in the country. Much has happened in this discussion that it has been enjoyed by members of the Parliament - some of them who are not even very funny - to talk about the loss of a vulture's treasure but whose names are something completely different. [[Up front.]] I will give myself to testify to the words of the last century, and I will turn on them a little, and say, "They are vultures, and they will be called vultures." If any doubt was made that the action presented here was available before the previous year, on a correction for tens of thousands of homes in the country, I don't think there would be any need for people to question it any longer. The other is so different that what was done at that time, i.e. Putting this special bank tax on fallen broken readys was done, just as foretold in the 2013 election campaign, to speed up the operation, not to let the country's home wait for an outcome in this case. Now the conclusion is made, and I quote that the next day, on the map, there was a headline, which almost sounded like that, by the permission of the President, the first crowns went to pay the debt correction to the President's rights. There is no doubt that the progressive correction and the righteous correction made at the expense of these stretchers, these demands, these vultures, is made. However, it is also interesting to observe and note that the experts involved in this case came in contact with the government - like an American lawyer named Buchheit Buuche, who has been good for us before, said in an interview with ml.is, by permission of a president: As a result of the huge financial collapse in Iceland, the oceans had to last longer than anyone expected. In such a situation, there are not many examples of lifting lifts. So I would not be surprised if students in international financial affairs would long use this as a textbook. What a delightful testimony to the way these measures are put in motion and how they are thought! Also, Buchheit vow says, with permission of the highest. President: The need to solve Iceland's financial problems, to avoid gang swings, and to ensure continued economic improvement. Impressed by the operation, earning money was not a matter of earning it. One result of the action, however, will be the result of a large amount of money and money available to Iceland's Federal Fund. This money can be used to reduce the debt of the state fund, which should again lead to improvement in the national insurance burden and loss of loan costs. In time, what I said earlier about the likely cost of interest in the state's budget will be dropped by 3,500,4 billion dollars. every year. What a joy it is to express special satisfaction in knowing that most of the people here seem to have expressed the joy that comes from finally understanding the subject! Of course, we must all rejoice.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u73	The dice are thrown.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u74	Then said Sesar before he went over Tiber. Because I discussed some of the plans here in 2011, they are basically different from this arrangement because in this case there was no negotiations. There will be no negotiations held. Forcers really face two options, i.e. to pay 39% taxes or to accept conditions that need to be completely met. There is no discount. By paying the tax, it will be separated by up to 850 billion. In contrast, if you live under the conditions, that amount is likely to fall by about 160 billion dollars. The conclusion is simply that this action will lead to the end, that, hoping, in this country, the standard of living in this country can be significantly improved, making it a condition to start a new application to improve the standard of living and new applications to improve this development, a new offense that includes finally rising from the ashes, the experience of the wealthy. We are all more experienced and will strive to see that this will not be at any time the events that took place in 2005◯2008. However, I must agree with what was presented in the Sermon on the Mount. paritaprevir Willum Þór Þórsson son of earlier, and I, in fact, drew attention to the conclusion of last night's work that it is completely incomprehensible and intolerable that Iceland's Señor Bank is already taking action to raise a height of 0.5 percent, let alone threaten further interest. I'm absolutely certain, Madam President, that this arrangement -- I can't believe she's coming to stand and I can't believe that the Secret Bank really means this. First of all, the next likely increase in growth now, in newly developed collective agreements, is an inflation stimulus. This growth is self-inflicted. The declaration that interest will further increase here directly requires that there will be too much influx of foreign capitals with related dangers, as we experienced in 2005◯2008. I don't believe it until I get my full fist that the Navy bank really wants to open the window to watch this road, let alone to put it. I just can't believe it. You're right, you're right. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson stated earlier, it is not in the power of those in this hall who are directly influenced by this arrangement because the Federal Republic of Iceland is an independent institution and has independence in money and interest. Nevertheless, I believe within the Federal Bank to find wise men, and I believe that they take pleas from here and elsewhere from men of knowledge like Gylfi Arnbjörnsson's son, President ASI, and others who have warned strongly that interest is increased in this way. In itself, it is a coronation that Iceland's late bank should precede and increase growth and threaten further growth when it is established that with the newcomers, Iceland's credit rates will improve. At the same time, this is the case with the Navy bank. I believe and trust that the Black Air will see and will see their error and that the decisions both made and proclaimed are classy, relative to the actions that are now being introduced and will be implemented. There has been a lot of talk in this discussion, or anything, about the government's temptation problems to use the financial resources that will be available, but I don't think that already there's much evidence that one intends to use this money, the means to reduce the debt of a state, not to use it to cause expansion, and to increase in inflation. I think it's the next thing certain that, of course, people will use this unique opportunity that they now have to reduce the debt of state and thereby improve the terms of all of us in the long run. Madam President. I want to end up repeating that this operation is an accomplishment that will be remembered for a long time. Everyone who comes to it, the staff of the Secret Bank, the specialist group under Sigurður Hannesson, and Benedikt son of Gíslason, all these people have worked on an enormous amount of work, a very good job, a very careful job, they deserve a lot of honor and a lot of gratitude. Most important, it is only proper to remember that this operation is being carried out under the strength of the government now in Iceland, and let us just keep it in place, under the leadership that has had a clear vision of these matters all along - I give a witness to what appeared in a famous TV interview in 2013 when people asked the current Supreme Court. Prime Minister: How is it that you alone speak of it in this way? Why is it that you rely on one person to make a promise? The answer was natural that it could be done, that money could exist, that they would be picked up by any means needed, and now it has become a reality, a nation for good.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u75	A respectable president. I'm glad to hear it without any compromise. Prime Minister has a loyal admirer here in the Assembly Hall. At least I think something's wrong. A senator has been under speeches other than me, or something hears him differently than I do. I've never heard anyone talk about the fact that nothing happened in these matters since 2012. I have not heard any man in this room who has spoken up and has been happy about this, being taking some rose from the government for going to these agreements. I don't understand why. A senator would say that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u76	V.E.G. President. It is my experience that the talks that have been given, very many, have assumed that little has happened here since 2012 in these cases, that humans have delayed the matter, and especially the highest. The prime minister I consider wrong and have already said so. The other thing is, I'm sure I'm the highest. The prime minister has many more fans in this hall than I do, much more than I admire him. But that's not what I was doing in my speech, speaking to him specifically, but I just wanted to prove what I've felt was lacking to be respected by men in this matter and the strength that the government has shown.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u77	A respectable president. That was a last word. A senator who made me speak of his admiration for the prime minister, and I don't doubt that there are others here. However, there were practical matters presented in the hearing of the senator. I felt that he was speaking in a way that would require a lot of caution in terms of financial matters. And now it's gathering here, except for BHM's staff who are in a strike-out, whose right to strike will be taken away from them. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the council how he feels about his speeches. The minister of finance has maintained tax losses as the scope of this development gives him the opportunity to implement it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u78	Madam President. I've noticed that, like a dog. A senator, that a group of people have gathered here because of BHM's fight. On two occasions, I have made the subject of recent discussions that there is an urgent need to negotiate the issue with any means necessary. The threat of life and health of people is truly intolerable. I'm still on it. With regard to possible tax reductions, the highest. The minister of finance has been proclaiming, as it were, not to say very accurately what it involves. Of course, the tax reductions that have already occurred on the part of the government have brought good benefits to those who have been involved and who have less. That's fine. Of course, you have to watch all the more of the people we have here when we make decisions on tax matters, and I trust that they will.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u79	Madam President. Although socializing is a minor correction, Júlíus Sesar did not cast the dice when he crossed Tiber. Rather, he crossed the Rubicon, which falls into the Mediterranean or the Adriatic Sea in the north in Italy. On the other hand, I completely agree, Mr. President, to have claimed it and to believe, as if by the extreme many, that there was a conflict in the government that led to the first attack of this project, which is a prelude to the recovery of currency. I refer to the first speech of the highest. When the government succeeded, a secretary of finance who was moved out of that chair was determined that there was no problem as big as the currency master. Already, he began to declare that in that year the attack would take place on the first steps. Two years passed, and the reason, as we have seen, was that there was a conflict about the bankruptcy process that was not resolved until the judgment of the Supreme Court in the fall. At that time, people went to the fore in preparing it, and that was why all that time had come for a statement to begin with. Prime Minister. [[The president calls.]] This cost the nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u80	Madam President. First of all, I'd like to thank the senator for correcting my comments about Júlíus Sesar. I don't want him lying around a garden unsettled. It is true that when the government came into power, the first steps in 2013 were taken by preparatory groups to do this work. Of course, it was clear to everyone that this project was one of the biggest cases the government faced and was going to solve during this terms. As for interracial conflicts in the government, I don't recognize them for this, and it's very good now that, of course, people are united in trying to maximise the damages I would like to call, as we are taking hold of these claimors and other banks, which, in many respects, were responsible for the 2008 situation. [[The president calls.]] Of course, it's time to celebrate the reaching out.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u81	Madam President. This is a legitimate approach. Senator. The fact is, however, that, as it were, the highest. The minister of finance has, among other things, emphasized that this is not a war damage, that is not to make up for anything or anything. This is to maintain financial stability. The other view is totally legitimate, but it was not used for various reasons. Hv. One senator says that men were working here with some kind of committee for a long time, and he's right. Let me review the first committee I asked. The prime minister who served for, what, six months? And then she just disappeared. Why did she disappear? This was also made public, although it was not confirmed, because there was disagreement on the bankruptcy route or the contract route. I just wanted to draw it up because of what it was. A senator thus spoke in his speech as if I had been saying that the highest. A prime minister would have been working against the nation's interests. That's not what I'm talking about, and I've never said it, but I thought it was a lack of judgment. However, because both Sesar and Brútus have been mentioned here, a famous quote is also found in Sesar Shakespeare: Mein, my Brútus, is not in our destiny but in ourselves. Everyone is imperfect. Not everyone has perfect judgment, neither is he the ultimate. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u82	Madam President. My soul shall say that no man is born perfect, nor shall he that stands here be perfect; neither shall he that is far from here. Nevertheless, it is this way - it may have been inaccurate for me to say a committee when I spoke of a committee in November 2013, but it is, of course, a team of experts that met them and has worked hard until today to make this remarkable success reality. It's supposed to be a celebration. I don't think that the time has gone by, that's been very good for this work, and I don't think that the time in which this has happened has been, unless the time has been cut off. On the contrary, I believe that out of this state's budget is going to be more money than most men had anticipated, I think. Let us rejoice in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u83	A respectable president. During the end of the last election, it was written. An article in the Morning newspaper that bore the title ◯ The false betrayal of the government There, in my opinion, he goes in a very unfair way to a distant government and also to falsehood. This article says, with the permission of a president: If news is scheduled, the government is now preparing a historical fraud to the public in Iceland. [...] If it is right to negotiate with the hedge fund during the last days of the season, then it is so uncooperative that it cannot be believed. Now there is another landing, two years later, in a similar way that was being cooperated with in the first place. A senator wrote this article, calling it unworked too. I don't have to review this article. He almost accused us of stealing from our people. I'd like to ask you what. A senator has changed. He seems to have changed his view of the matter because what was once a historical betrayal has now turned out to be a wonderful success. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u84	Madam President. Now I don't remember this article and I appreciate it. A senator for bringing her back to me. What Has Changed? What has changed is that in this matter now, in this conclusion, there are no treaties. In this matter now, and people may ridicule them if they wish, this time they stood, i.e. Qualifications, in the face of two advantages, to pay taxes or to go fully under conditions set out. [[Up front.]] [[Top-to-door agreements.]] There are no contracts in it, it says in a more recent paper that treaties have not been made, there has been an information meeting where the demands have been kept informed on how the case developed. No deals. It is quite clear that there is nothing here they have to negotiate, as I say, either 39% tax, or they will fully submit to the conditions they are given. The wealth of government will have outrun this in the range of 680 and 850 billion dollars.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u85	A respectable president. It is certainly about negotiations, this is about going along the fast way rather than going bankrupt, as foretold and being spoken of by category. Senator. Whatever it is. A senator in this article, in the leading of the last election, was exactly the same as is happening here, i.e. that there was a strong feeling on the hands of millions of people about how to do this in order to ensure financial stability. What was spoken of at that time was exactly what is being done here now, with the same conclusion. What was once called historical betrayal has now been a wonderful success. And I welcome it because I and the senator have finally arrived on the same page on the subject. I must also say that I find it quite amazing to hear here at the moment. A senator believes that the advance party and Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson invented space. What they were able to do, however, was to market the term space in a very clever way to what the Már Guðmundsson, the bank manager, had been talking about and what we had been talking about as a refreshing deduction of the local property of the swellings. [[The president calls.]] That's all there is to it, so it wasn't invented by the forward group; however, it was published in a very clever way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u86	The turnout was certainly not, Madam President, invented by the forward party, but it was well-founded by the forward party. The measures and methods foretold by the forward media in 2013 that will now be completed in accordance with that will bring back a great deal of money to the country and to the nation. This is in itself, as noted earlier, an example of what determined will and courage can accomplish. [[Up front.]] It says, quoted by Buchheit Buuchy, that men approached with the methodology of a bat and a yellow subterranean, i.e. It's methodology. It's tough. It's rewarding. In the case of the game plan, the stable tax, while the yellow root was that governments pay the streets of legalized treaties. [[The president calls.]] Argo, two choices faced, both of which are very practical for the Icelanders. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u87	Madam President. It is a natural economic reality that has been faced since the fall of 2008, and the candidates did not find it, that Iceland had no currency and would not produce currency in the years to switch to foreign currency all the money that was in the hands of foreigners. Despite a 50% gang drop, the Icelandic kroner immediately formed an eco-efan of less than 100 dollars. More expensive than a national market. That's why they put it in a currency head. It didn't come up with any growth. Of course, it is logical for them to try to turn this over to a great victory, since the conclusion is a different method from that of them, which is said to be the failure route. But I'd like to ask why. A member of the Parliament, because counseling by the Icelandic government and Icelandic financial minister strongly emphasizes that the basis for this action, its purpose, is not to obtain a wealth of money, but that it is possible to subsidize currency without making any currency possible. This emphasis is placed on it to strengthen our language situation. [[The president calls.]] Got it. As a result, would a senator wisely speak in the way he does here, as if it were the main objective of this action to obtain money in the state's budget to keep the campaign for the forward movement?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u88	President. Of course, as mentioned earlier in my case, the main thing is to take advantage of the money, the amount of space that will be created, in order to reduce the debt of state, in order to promote an Icelandic society to the future. Money for a government fund - I don't think of this money, this space that develops as a means of making money for a government fund to get out in a traditional way, but primarily to make use of the space it created to promote the nation's existence. Of course it's true - I mentioned it at the beginning of my speech, I don't know if. A senator heard it - that the sentence of the emergency law in 2008 had been a big step and that they had kept it well. I also made clear at the beginning of my speech that the songs written on March 12, 2012, had proved their worth so much, and, as I said at the outset, I did not sit at a council, and I did not have to compete with anyone on this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u89	Madam President. V.E.G. The financial and economic minister put it well in the discussion, that I suppose yesterday, when he said that the foundation of this Iceland was that it would be taken no less than it would be necessary to unwind from the currency lords, to rid the swellings from the state's estate, to get rid of the deportations without disrupting the currency status and the overexploitation of the country's budget. Why is this important, Madam President? Now it may not be a concern that a person here uses indiscriminate words. This is of utmost importance because it is the legal basis for these actions, this is the justification for them. I think it matters that these things and Iceland are not put in worse light than they need. Therefore, when a candidate is trying to strike himself as a knight, he is not particularly clever because he remembered the weak situation in Iceland, for example, where it is very important that the responsible legalization of the minister of finance be rendered rather than other and less balanced words. [[The president calls.]] It's exactly this way, the basis of the action is to cut down these crowns is no more or less than it is necessary to cut the currency heads off.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u90	Madam President. Now, the person here stands an average of a foolish candidate. A member of the council has described recent, even unscrupulous, and possibly psychotic, as here mentioned. [[Up front.]] On the other hand, I do not want to say that I have in my speech here in any way indiscriminately spoken, that the scope created by this phenomenon, the suggestions presented here, the legal adjustments presented here, would benefit the Icelanders. Of course, that's absolutely right, as a matter of course. A senator says that there is nothing to be taken seriously at the rights of those to whom it is appropriate, not at all. It's being walked, like the highest. A financial minister rightly quoted, as far as necessary, and no more than that. [[Up front.]] There's nothing going on here by some kind of hangout against governments in this matter, much less.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u91	President. We are all glad that the nation's greatest economic solution has been reached by a milestone. It has been proposed as to how it should be done. First, a bill has been presented that is a recipe for the short contracts that the Icelandic government has prepared to offer to the demand heads of the swellingers of the banks. On the one hand, there is a bill on a multi-counted stable tax that has about 39% tax on the total resources of the swelling farms. This tax will be laid on the swelling market if they have failed to meet conditions for the next year's contracts. We've heard it here in the speech of the highest. Economic and economic minister that reports had been received that if I may call them, the key demands of the air dwellers had declared that they were ready to accept these conditions. Yesterday, the news release was made clear in the news magazine that Volunteer II had written a written statement for the weekend. Since these demands have been heavily weighed among the demands, it was likely that other demands would also take on these treaties, at least to the extent, a large proportion of them in each contract would be agreed on. In fact, it is also referred to as a precautionary agreement to reduce the proportion of demands that must be agreed on contracts at parlance meetings or meetings where it is elected. This conclusion is not the result of a discussion between the minister or the government itself and the demandsist. Rather, it has been in these conversations. They have led to the conclusion that the government is now offering to the General Assembly. If we agree with this, it's a big phase. We no longer live under the threat that the banks may have been and have truly been because they have been hanging over us. We are in such an naive environment that we find it necessary for some to be very careful about this process of being very powerful men and powers, not only here in the house but also in society, to be opposed to treat treaties in general, and especially with foreigners. We'll be so co-ordinated that we tip here, talk about conversation, not negotiations. We must understand that there is no negotiation with demands, that are setting an ultimatum for them. If people mention the names of someone else, the big bear can get angry and the skunks will start off with the mess that comes with them. We want to avoid them as if we do not want to fight this important matter, for there is no reason to do so. In the history of the highest. The secretary of finance reported that it was not really until 2014 that he felt that the problem had actually happened. Maybe we don't know yet, because on the front page of yesterday's News magazine, we have an interview with Sigurður Hannesson, one of the government's advisers on this matter. He said that what can be obtained from the farms will be about 570 billion. So he says, "I'm sorry, I'm sorry. If there's to be more, then it's natural good for a government fund, which also means that the problem was bigger than we thought. So we will find a much better balance between the problem and the solution. It seems to me now that even the challenge is not completely clear yet, and the way the crews choose may be revealed. Now they've all written down that they're going to choose the contracts, and I hope they will. But although this magnitude may not yet be clear, and the highest. In 2014, however, a secretary of finance did not think that it was until 2014, but it does not change that in 2011 the late bank program for decommissionation of currency was made. True, the steps were small at first, but they worked according to the plan and made very important decisions. Then, as many other senators have done here, I still intend to mention the laws set on March 12, 2012. Then a new plan was set forward in the fall of 2013, and it is only natural for a new government to make its own plans. Fortunately, the politicians, from the time that the first plan was made and so far, have been desolated to make good decisions. It's supposed to be a celebration. The decisions have been based on the tremendous work of government officials, both in the Federal Office and in the Management Board, and on counselors who have been specifically hired for the project. Of course, thanks to them is everything. For some time, it was a good time to take away the seas, since interest differences are high in this world and in the rest of the world. During the early 1990's, the rate of growth was about 0.5% yesterday to 5.5%, while in Europe there is an increase of 0%, and in some places it was even referred to as negative. Thus, moving the money out of here is not a great demand for growing up. If the crown's gangs seem pretty safe, then there may not be a great demand for the release of money from here, so this is a good time to do this. But when it comes to getting rid of the currency heads, this interest difference will be a special challenge for us. An increasing difference was one reason why this brought money to the fore for collapse, the money that caused enormous expansion that the government could not control. Of course, that cannot happen again. It's quite clear that if we're not going to be likedentified, as we've been lately, this interest has to be destroyed, because otherwise there's a risk of money turning back in here that higher yield. Of course, it won't be today or tomorrow, but time goes by quickly, so we need to start thinking about this no later than we do now. A respectable president. I know what the solution is, but not everyone who wants to face it is. She's filming another currency, she's filming a euro that we don't do unless we're involved in the European Union. This fact must come face - to - face sooner than later. The sooner they do it, the better. Still closer in time, though, there is the danger that we do not know how to handle the money that is expected to fall to the Icelandic State or the Federal Bank because of these measures we see natural in our hands that at first we go 145 billion or so, I suppose, in paying off the government's bonds that are in the Secret Bank, or the province, pay off its debt bonds, the David letter so called, 145 billion that the state had to be published at the end of 2008 to save the City Bank from bankruptcy. Then it is clear that a bank tax on the swelling farms will not be collected to prepare the correction so that some tens of billions will be included. Is that not the remaining 40 billion? Yet, it has been said that this money should go down the debt of the state, not into society, not to abuse it. As other members of Parliament have done before, I warn against the fact that people have a low tax burden. I think I know I'm in charge. The secretary of finance yesterday and today for the tax service is a delight, a pleasure, to someone's ears. However, I think it might be wise for him and others to think that there are a lot more people who are concerned about the injustice in this society and governments would be more likely to think about it than to get in the eye of losing taxes. It takes strong bones to resist temptation, and it will require a great deal of willpower to control the money when things are slowed down, in order that the economy will not swell out and be out of control. Sadly, in this country the mismanagement of government has already been high. But we must hope that in recent years we have learned our lesson and that in 2008 the disaster taught us to walk slowly through the door of joy. I believe it, and I trust it to be.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u92	Mr. President. I'd like to ask the senator if she shares my concerns because it doesn't matter whether it's the stable tax or so that the money ratio to the official in the force that the Secret Bank gets money from the broken house after the short contracts, in either case, it's about 450,650 billion that access into the bank account of the State Bank. I'd like to ask the senator if she would share my concerns about how this is put up in the projection, because if it comes to a responsible schedule, it also says that it should be done on the budget, and everyone I've asked to this point has told me that it does not bind the hands of the legman or the executive authority, who actually puts the financial bills in its treatment. This does not bind their hands in terms of how they can use this money. They can use it in a responsible way. They can actually defend it as they please. In all of this treatment, it is very clear, and it has been said many times during the discussion, that if we start using this money directly, a call will come out of the world: see, it wasn't a stable tax after all. It was about taking the money and spending it. That means Iceland's legal situation will be extremely uncertain and uncertain. But what we can do is use them to pay off debt, which means that we have more to play and can start building our economy in a safe and stable way. I'd like to ask the senator what she seems to be able to do. One way would be to lock up this money with the condition that it would be used in a responsible way to pay off debt or at least so that they would not be protrusive and would not place us in this legal uncertainty.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u93	A respectable president. I share this concern with the senator. It was noted earlier, too, that it is highly important because the law based on the fact that this is to stop the currency or payment flow and to maintain economic stability and something like that. The law rests on it. That's why it's natural that they keep if, like a dog, so to speak. One senator says, "There's no need to say, if you think of a person, then there's no doubt about it, because it's certainly not likely that someone would think of doubting the ground. That is why the handling of this money is of utmost importance. I don't know if it's possible to put it in law that this money should go to nothing but pay off debts. If that's possible, I find it sobering if I use it as a word. It is clear, however, that if we pay off debt, and I have proved to be afraid to say, too, that we don't really know how to do it well, the space that we're going to make them, and that it's going to start out in the economy. I would not believe it, but I trust that we have learned from the terrible things that happened during the fall of 2008 so that it will not be again.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u94	Mr. President. That's exactly the way to put it into law. The Norwegians found oil and saw that excessive value is being drawn into the economy - this is often called the Dutch flu - and to ensure that an enormous amount of new funds, these new values, would be protected in a responsible way, as well as in the interests of future generations, were legally placed on the law of funding the funds. It was thus made by law that the budget could be protected only in a responsible way; for the economy, for growth, and for the future. There are plenty of other countries that have done this. Saudi Arabia is one of them. They found oil, they have a fund called Fund for the Future Generes or a fund for future generations. As a result, they want to be sure that they have a trust fund. Thus, this is possible and is known when some kind of whale handles it, whether it is in the form of oil fields or oil meetings, or as it is now when we are insured stability, and in the stability operations, there will be plenty of money to make sure that it is handled responsibly, and it will not go into some political game. Of course, this will be required. Building up and building up are such a strong requirement. But if we fall into the trap of using this money, using this cakebox in the Secret Bank, gathering in it instead of using the money to pay off debt, which allows us room to grow slowly and safely, that could be a disaster, a legal disaster, and a lot of chemical instability.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u95	A respectable president. I just didn't think far enough, of course, I know the Norwegian oil reserve and other such funds. It would seem that this money would become a special fund and then there would be some rules on how to assign it, or we set the rules to use it only to pay off debts. To me, that would not sound unreasonable, at all, becoming such a belt and bracelet for us to handle them wisely. I just agree with what. A senator's concern is that people are already talking, so he wants to go out and buy and build up and do something about that money. On the other hand, although it's going to be a treasure, naturally it must also be thought that, unfortunately, humans have always controlled funds. Even if the funds are once implemented, the rules can naturally be changed. Well, while there's a fund on this, it's not a guarantee of gold. I can't remember when the ocean's price balance fund was established; it was destroyed by everyone without any special financial failure. Humans are imperfect, but the important thing is that everyone is prepared for this money. [[The president calls.]] If we can guarantee it with some fence, I think it's a good idea. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u96	A respectable president. On the other hand, hundreds have gathered to protest that their call for a better standard of living is not answered. These are BHM groups that have been on strike today for the third month. This is a very serious situation, a very serious situation has occurred within the medical system for this reason. That's what I want at the highest. President that he will start a work programme so that we can start having discussions in special discussions and as if it were scheduled in the United States for a verbal report on the job position so that we can start trying to handle these matters in a posetum. I don't like the debate that has been made about this strike because we've already seen huge reports among radiologists. It was noted in the news today that nurses are going to resign just because they hear that they are considering legislation. [[The president calls.]] Since men must negotiate, I pray that we take this matter for discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u97	Mr. President. I'd like to please have a 15-minute recess at this meeting so that members of the council could go out and talk to the representatives of the Union of Colleges and nurses who have gathered here outside. It's important that I also be in here because I have to pay attention to a talk and answer for it. A senator who talks next, Frosti Sigurjónsson. The head of the Economic and Business Committee. This is the largest economy in Iceland during this terms, if not before and after, so I would kindly ask the president if he is willing to give us maybe ten, fifteen minutes to jump out and talk to the people. Why is it important that we go out and talk to nurses? 90% of the country's population, regardless of their status, prefers first-class health systems, regardless of their age's choice, regardless of their age. This government now offered a baseless budget of $3.3 billion for the last time, according to all health officials in this country, to ensure the necessary services. Now nurses are in a strike, and they are being referred to as a law on them. Then they'll go. We must have a chance to talk to them. I'm asking Mr. President, can you kindly give us 10 minutes to do so?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u98	Mr. President. You can't help but count the highest. A government for what it has taken over the present business dispute. BHM strike is starting now week 10. Nurses have spent two weeks in a strike, and there is no evidence that the government really wants to negotiate. The commission is clearly very limited, and government contracts cannot solve the problem simply because they do not have room on top of it. Governments. I have to say, the highest. A government has shown an unusual lack of understanding of the seriousness of the situation. I think it's perfectly clear that when there are laws to end the strike and after they're threatening such legal procedures that we've seen from the highest level. Councillers of the last days are very likely to lose important groups of working abroad. [[The president calls.]] Like what? The senator named Katrín Júlíusdóttir said here earlier; the narratives have already begun following the recommendation. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u99	President. It seems difficult now to see that those in charge of the government, the government, and the President of the Generals are not ready to complete the Senate, even though it is due to take half a month since they were due to be completed. So I want to agree with it. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir said: "We'd like to ask that the president of the council set up a new schedule so we can work here for a regular body of Congress. Then, for example, we can discuss the most devastating health - care conditions that prevail with BHM. Those who are the highest health - care providers say that the situation has become intolerable. [[The president calls.]] Now consider the usual procedure here at the council so that this can be discussed as well as other important issues of society. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u100	V.E.G. President. For a number of weeks, I have been amazed at how much emptiness has been involved in the loss of both radiologists and biologists, as well as for the number of others who are now on week 10 or 11, in a strike. They were told to wait for the general labour markets. We're here talking about classes that are very important in the community that have also been fighting for the position of so-called women's classes, have been fighting for justice that somehow the ratio will be equal among those who are often called the Ministry's Pay, i.e. Those who work in institutions that hear under industry, industrial affairs, the Ministry of Business, and others have a completely different salary than those who work at welfare. It's a great deal of justice. Those who work on welfare matters try to get this right and associate it with education, a comparable education, but they are completely ignored, and I feel that there is something I need to discuss at the council. I agree with the challenge here that has brought us into the regular program of the council so that we can take up special discussions and follow up on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u101	A respectable president. It is a mild word to say that there is a state of emptiness. Men in this hall have spoken in such a way that now people believe that they have been treated in a disrespectful manner that they are rejected by health - care professions. I have to say exactly as it is, when people see that the consequences of their policies, which in other words, are to deliver the employment agreement and not talk to public employees while, which leads to this conclusion, when they see in the front of it, they are to be man greater, come in here, admit their mistakes and start serious debates with these groups. It will only be through contracts that will be able to correct their standard of living and respond to their demands. This is not done by threats of legalization, for it has only the effect of thinking about movement, and we will have a long time to repair the resulting damage.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u102	V.E.G. President. Governments must be responsible for the handling of this issue. At baseline, there was a 20% increase in pay by experts, i.e. those who were working outside the public system. They received a secure salary, and they gained an increase in the amount they needed to earn more money. Then comes the medical debate and the medical strike, and the public sector is about to be offered at 3.5%. They know how it ended. They are now trying to force nurses, radiologists, and other classes to fit into any 3.5% of them knowing that in general markets there is a possibility of negotiating additional pay, e.g. VR rate, etc. This is an environment that cannot be offered. It must also be determined by whether or not this is being pushed out of the public system in order to pay this salary from the same government in the surrounding private institutions. [[The president calls.]] We're gonna need time to talk, and I'm gonna go to the top. A president who will use himself to make that possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u103	A respectable president. The basics discussed today are important elements in the national budget for the release of capitals in Iceland. Economic and economic stability is being threatened by citizens of the public. The aim of the existing strategy is to be raised in stages without interference from economic balance and without increasing financial burdens to the public or State's public. With the rulers who followed the collapse, governments gave certain measures to determine the overall problem and to shape solutions that will ensure a successful decision for national preparation in accordance with law and international agreements. That assignment has now taken seven years. At last, we are at the critical point where our diagnostic work is completed and a fully developed, positive response has been obtained. The plan is in progress, and there, of course, the Generals have an important role to play. It is of utmost importance that countries accept economic measures at this magnitude, and in this discussion, all members of the Parliament have felt that I think I am happy with the plan and described support. These fine counsels are vital to a successful conclusion and to a thank - you in itself. A positive response has been received by experts, both from abroad and from abroad. The stock exchange figures began after the introduction of operations, and some senators have been so impressed with the development that they want to have attributed them to the last government and even were tempted to blame the current government for the unnecessary delay of the case. The shots have gone on both sides, but such a basket is rather pointless in the large context, for all governments since collapse have contributed to the solution. Here, too, many members of the council have noted that the solution is primarily based on the tireless work of many experts, experts who identified the problem, and provided a solution. I would like to thank the senators for all who contributed to this vital work. Our subject here is correcting the tremendous imbalance that has existed in the financial system since collapse, and the problem is triphasic. First, 900 billion domestic holdings of fallen financial companies threatening the stability of the currency and currency stores and preventing the debt of the residents. Second, 300 billion in a series of deportations owned by foreign people. Third, domestic problems that are unknown to size are, in part, the need for pension funds and private stakeholders to invest abroad and to place risks in museums. The bills we are now discussing are dependent on the solution to the problems of the broilers, but the deportation process will be solved by other means in the fall. It has been observed that in the near future emissions from national sources will be started in steps. Now I turn to the openings of the day, but both of you turn to the problem of the broilers. The second bill contributes to a 39% stable tax on the weight of the population that by the end of this year has not been completed contracts in accordance with the government's stability conditions. The second bill suggests some changes in the law of forced contracts to pay for their implementation and allows them to receive stability contributions from broken farms. The bill on the stable tax aims to eliminate the imbalance resulting from the domestic properties of the population. A small farm can avoid the tax by supplying a structure that meets the general stability conditions that again meet the conditions for financial stability and payment of the population. Either way, it results in the destruction of the imbalance and releases capital capital capital signs. The media reports that large demands of the fallen banks have provided suggestions on how they want to meet the stability conditions. The prospective group feels that these suggestions are in accordance with the requirements and suggests to accept these suggestions. However, that decision has not yet been made by the Management Board, so I know, but it must be based on a more careful analysis of the impact of payment and stability and the public interest. It is not clear whether the suggestions of these great demands will be provided to the minimum of a set of requirements that must be 60% by the end of the year. The analysis department of Anion Bank has recently made an attempt to assess the total financial stability of the budget under the guidelines provided, and it is estimated to be between 450 and550 billion. In addition, the late bank will have its currency loans paid to Arion Bank and Iceland Bank for the equivalent of 75 billion, which is not a contribution in itself, but it has the effect of supporting the reserve. For this reason only reports on the possible sale of banks to abroad, i.e. Today we have two of the largest banks in the country, i.e. Arón, Bank of Iceland, Bank of Iceland. In the news, we've heard of Gótt thinking of selling Iceland's bank to foreign citizens. I don't think it's certain that it's not our requirement to solve this payment problem to the future but that the new buyers will be taking advantage of it for years or decades, perhaps tens of billions a year, and the more than a decade billion that must come from the other currency in the country, because the banks are not making currency. They are not like export companies or companies that produce valuable products sold abroad, but they are primarily a service company that serves in the country, and their profits and profits are paid in dollars, and then they have to be turned over into currency, that currency will not be available for the nation to buy and import foreign goods. This will weaken the crown for the long time. So I've wondered about this frame that we haven't seen, whether this so-called stability frame, which we haven't been allowed to see here at the council yet, but has been expected to reveal to the demands that forced us into it, doesn't have to discuss here at the council. Is it not of utmost importance that this framework be settled during the council? It's that kind of meditation. If it does so in spite of up to a section of the banking system, whether it is 1/3 or 2/3 of it will end in the possession of foreign persons, and then you will want to take advantage of it from the country, then it is even more important than ever to respond to the few people in this bank market. I have no expectations that a foreign buyer will come forward by reducing the price, reduction the charge, or reduce the fee. Of course, he will only try to maximise his profits at the expense of the entire population. Therefore, we need to pay immediate attention to the ways in which we will reduce this competition. I've suggested a relatively frequent number of times, both here and in the media, that the bank we own, the Lands Bank, will remain completely owned by the funds of the state and will be the role of a community bank that is not headed to a limitation of profits at the expense of society, but will aim to optimise the competition, improve its services, and improve its prices. Other banks follow them, profit in this article would decrease, and emissions would also be much lower. At least there's something that I think we need to look at very carefully, how we're going to have an order for our bank affairs in the future. I find it easy to talk about being able to come in and buy this bank and not make money at the cost of the nation and then take money away from the country. It's serious if it gets to happen. If I return to the subject of the bill, it is suggested that financial companies fall down without a confirmed forced contract that meets the stability conditions for the next year's conventions pay steady taxes. The tax will be 39% and lay on total property at the end of this year. It may not be very deep in the bill why this percentage has to be 39%, but I think it must be that it means that there is the ratio necessary and sufficient to destroy the inequities and risks of the domestic property of these organisms. The purpose of the tax is to minimize it inexorably and provide adequate balance so that wear and dispose of other property. From this calculated tax rate of 39% tax, it may be reimbursed in the currency provided to business banks and savings up to 20% of the total stocks, but the recovery cannot exceed 50 billion per case. A total of 160 billion may be contained in tax subsidies, which would otherwise have been 850 billion, so that the deduction clearance may be more up - to - date, the most likely to be about 690 billion or 685 billion. The tax would be fully paid by August 1, 2016, and when a person has completed a stable tax system, it is permitted to provide access to the individual from capital authorities, it does not result in financial stability. It is likely that such a release would also be made in agreement with the secretary of the budget and in the introduction of the General Assembly for the Economic and Business Committee, but since there is such a huge decision, which can determine the outcome of the future economic policy in this country for the future, I would also feel strongly considered that the General Assembly would discuss and confirm such an access rights. Before giving a release, court hearings must be postponed, but differences will be prompted to the courts because of the possible tax. The bill also contains an important principle that states that the product of taxes is in line with economic and financial stability goals, but it is clear that within it the correctment of the home debt, which has been funded so far by a bank tax, can be reduced the debt of the state's funds to about 150 billion and then other federal debts, if that is in line with the stability of the target. But in my opinion, it is very important to set up expectations about how fast you can let money go into the economy, whether it is done by paying up the financial debt or by engaging in other government expenditures or by reducing taxes. All such provisions are harmful and can cause instability, can lead to either property scandals or inflation, because a person now holding a debt on the state is paid in money and he will use it to buy property, other stocks, or he will spend some other amount of money that could result in financial gain. So it is not that this money can be taken on a large scale, as I feel so implied by the bill that if you could reduce the debt of the state's debt by 640 billion, interest payments will drop by 35 billion, that's not true. I think it would be very far enough if we could do it in a short time. I think we're talking about decades in it. The economic system itself must be able to accept such an increase in the amount of money. It's not for good reason that there's been a capital master here, that's because there's no such thing as this money. There's too many dollars in the system. As soon as we put that tax on, we need to spend the money. The tax justification is that it is a pollution tax, such as the bank manager put it so well, that we do not take this pollution and then immediately post it into the economy by paying off government bonds. That's not possible. Let us, then, examine all of this. I know that many have been very happy about this, how much you could take down your debt, and how happy you could be doing a lot of things here, but let's just figure this isn't a gift, that money. It's not real money. It's money that needs to be spent, set a fire, unscheduled over money. That's the way it is. Of course, we'll talk about it better on the Economic and Business Committee and get experts to think about it and to tell us more about it. A respectable president. As I came into the past, the purpose of the tax is not to raise a trust fund. Rather, it is to prevent economic instability of the forced agreements of the tenants. He corrects the broken - up discrepancies that do not meet the stabilisation conditions, thus ending the debt without causing instability. That's the point. A respectable president. I briefly go to the other bill, which is also for discussion and is an important part of the government's decompression program. The bill suggests a change to XII. section of the law on financial enterprises, in particular the terms of forced agreements, and also includes one change in the law of the Sentencing Bank. The objective of the bill is to simplify the rules that apply to the implementation of forced financial companies, such as by allowing electronic votes, and it serves the interests of all people to make it more efficient in view of the experience we have received from that process so far. Among other things, it is suggested that the required proportion of demands be dropped because of a vote for a contract, so 70% instead would be enough enough for vote voters to vote. Granted, the needs of these individuals need to be met in some other way, and I think that the bill assumes that meetings are leading to a decline in the rightness of the smaller demands. The bill also allows wear - off management to hand over the Court's stability proposals without a payment and allows them to be received and carried out by the Huns Bank. Again, I call attention to the fact that these contributions, which can study hundreds of billions, can, in almost a very small way, enter the economy. They can only turn down the debt of a state's debt to a very minor degree. Of course, it can be used to lower the inner debt of the State Fund at the Sensitian Bank to 150 billion, that is such an accounting procedure, but it cannot go on a large scale to pay off the debt of the state. It is possible that among the assets that would be handed over to the Federal Bank for this purpose, all sorts of incomplete property, demands of conflict, demands of domestic people who have not run their course and are not market requirements. It is very important that the requirements are not stored on the National Bank accounts, but in a special holding society that is not related to the UN Bank public management and that will be handled separately. Of course, it would be best for banks who are involved in business with such companies and who spend more time in their dealings with creditors. That there are many things to take care of both the bills. After this discussion, the Economic and Business Committee will send the case for review and start without delay and call on experts. The discussion that has taken place here at 1st. has been very informative and perfunctory. This discussion, along with the detailed articles that follow the premiere, is a useful tool for the economic and business coverage of these bills.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u104	Mr. President. I'd like to ask you what. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Sigllionsson, president of the Economic and Business Committee, the committee involved: What will he do about the progress of the committee? If he doesn't agree with me on the importance of the 500 billion, or around 500 billion, as shown in the bill, which will end in a special budget of the State Bank, the running account of the State Fund in the Marine Bank, and the budget of the legislature for financial stability, despite the beautiful words here on economic stability - that's what I've got confirmed. So, then, do we not need to have it fully confirmed by the Committee where the limit is? Can this money be set aside? Doesn't it have to be absolutely certain what will be done if not the way that money is just burned, which I don't think, is that it's just put in the corps, wiped out? Otherwise, they lie in there and become a huge temptation to the politicians to take them into account. When other nations have been living with such whales in the form of much new things, they have put their money in a locked fund. It's probably an oil kingdom, but other countries have done it too. It is known throughout the world that such whales in the form of money are locked up so that they do not blow out the economy and cause instability, which in itself is extremely bad. In our case there is also another important reason, that is, if politicians start reaching that 500 billion cake boxes in the Federal Bank and spending them money, they can't only cause economic instability, but they can say, "Hey, it's just our property. [[The president calls.]] Then our legal situation is bad, and for these two reasons it is important to make sure that this will not happen. [[The president calls.]] What's the bottom line? The head of the committee on this matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u105	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór for this question. He uses the word whaler to describe the 500 billion who may come in, or whoever the number is, into this stability tax or stability, but I don't consider it a whale. I consider it a crown that needs to be removed from the system, out of circulation. If they go into traffic, they damage our economy in one way or another. I think it's possible to eliminate an internal number, 150 billion and that we've only come to the limit of what can be done and to complete the commitment of the households that were always assumed and settled within stability goals. There may be dozens of billions or so, but I think hundreds of billions more to be eliminated. There is no need to keep it in some special account in the Navy bank. All it has to do is settle it out and replace it with zero, then there's no temptation for politicians to watch it every day. If politicians could convince the Council Bank to hand this money over to them on short notice and the Sulley, an independent money bank, would agree with it, then he wouldn't be worth much. But just as cash banks are independent today, they do not take up the printing of money for hundreds of billions in order to make unnecessary financial gains, no politician would think of it, I think, of printing hundreds of billions to put into circulation and creating incredible instability. I don't think those politicians would be elected again, at least it's not likely to be popular, I think. My personal opinion, what. Senator: I don't think it's a whale dragon, it's a crown that shouldn't exist. The role of this stable tax is to destroy them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u106	Mr. President. Whether it's a good whale handler or a bad whale handler, it can be bad if the whale festers on the beach and explodes, etc., it can damage around it. I hear the highest. The head of the Department of Economic and Business Committee does not want politicians to be able to collect this fund. He spoke of the temptation, that she was there every day, and he prefers that money to be destroyed so that politicians cannot use it. There is one way that would completely prevent the money from being used. But if that path doesn't go, it's the highest. The head of the Committee is not open to further efforts to prevent politicians from attempting to go into this budget? As noted in paragraph 1. in the budget bill it should be explained for the planned management of the budgets, although it needs to be economic, it must only be consistent with the Secret Bank. The concierge bank doesn't need any eavesdrops. It is the politicians who hire this money after they enter the Federal Bank on the deposit account. That's what I'm pointing at, i.e. the importance of frameing it in. That's what I'm talking about. The head of the Committee does not agree? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u107	A respectable president. I agree with what. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson and reiterate that I think it's absolutely true that this money can't go on the road. Excited by this excess amount, it must not exist and, if in traffic, creates significant economic instability here. What would have to happen so that these funds could go on without creating economic instability? For example, it could be if the economy had grown. I hope it's going to grow about 25,2,3% a year. If it did for 20 years, it would double in size, it could possibly receive all that money over a period of 20, 30 years. It would not cause economic instability. As economic systems grow, there is a need to increase the amount of money in circulation. You could use this money to do that. I think it's just a much simpler way to spend this money on the Federal Bank accounts, so it disappears and we're not looking at these weird names in the UN Bank accounts. You don't have to do that. It's not real money.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u108	Mr. President. This is where we moved here. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson, president of the Economic and Business Committee, one of the most outstanding talks that has been given during this discussion. First, I want to agree with the criticism that I and others, e.g. Yeah. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon has suggested the fact that some people, including the highest. Secretary of finance, has already begun to create expectations by saying how they will spend the cost of the State. The important thing, though, is that. A senator gives strong warnings about two things. For one thing, he believes that by allowing the broken - up homes to sell their banks to foreign parties, the problem is, in effect, delayed or extended to those related to the part of the part of the house, and he points out that the foreign owners will, of course, be tempted to make the most of their means of earning money and making money available to them. Of course, this creates considerable pressure on the system. This is a financial and business committee that needs to check into the basement. I agree with the warning. Of course, the rest of them are at great risk. A senator literally says from his knowledge that it is dangerous and directly harmful to the economic system to plan to use the income due to the stable tax in even paying off the State debt of more than 150 billion, which corresponds to the letter that went between the Federal Bank and the State. Here, natural watershed in the discussion because the debate has been largely successful, at least by some senators and Ministers, on account of the fact that it is creating a great deal of value that the state can use to pay off its debt and to reduce interest costs as such. I'm asking why. A senator: Is it, then, that they believe that it is dangerous to do anything else in the means that there will be but simply to zero it out, to burn it up, to destroy it? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u109	A respectable president. Thank you for the questions. With regard to taxes that have been discussed, there may well be room for tax doctors, no matter what's happening here, no matter what we're talking about, I don't really want to confuse it. Despite everything, we're doing well in Iceland. It's economic growth. There is then a chance of space to reduce taxes, possibly. I don't want to mix the two things together, but I didn't think there was an enormous amount of tax down on the road as if we were talking about it. I think everything was within reasonable limits, hopefully. What we're talking about here is two things. I appreciate the question about selling foreign funds to banks. This is not different from selling to domestic parties, both parties will try to maximise their profits and profits from that investment. That's normal. The difference is that a foreign party will want to turn it into currency for years to come, tens of billions a year. But I can't bear to think that we are going to pay every year 30, 40, 50 billion a year to profit from a nonprofit operation. There is nothing but to take away the exports, which create currency so that we can import goods. If we take that currency to pay off money abroad for some business that is just domestic, domestic service that makes no currency, I would think it was a very tragic mistake. As for the rest, yes, that's right, most of this money, the majority of these hundreds of billions of these are here, is not whale dragons, but money to be crossed out, and that's why we're talking about taxation. That's right. This letter may be reduced, finished, done with, that's an excellent redesign method, but in itself, the Navy owes each other money, it's all inside the store. It would just be like if I owed myself some money and had it in two T bills. Of course, I can get it out of my system without causing some turmoil in my community. I think we have to be very careful about how we talk about it and how we're going to use it. It's a tax that turns to correct instability, cleaning up contaminated crowns. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u110	Mr. President. V.E.G. The secretary of finance mentioned his tax reductions in connection with these measures, but in order to maintain everything in such a way that the space created because of the lower interest costs would be used to do so, not all summers, or not to be taken away from them. I'd like to ask you what. A senator. Is he of the opinion that this frame of agreement should be changed to a group of demands, as stated in what is called the address on the Department's Homepage, so that it is not to be sold to foreign banks? Second, when people have been talking about lowering the state's annual interest fees for perhaps up to 35 billion, it is really nonsense and that there is no room to create with less money for the State, except for perhaps those 150 billion named for interest - bearing amounts than that of the year. A senator has explained that it is now just moving from one pocket to another? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u111	A respectable president. I have to confirm that I don't think there's anything to be expected that the interest rate of the state budget will drop by tens of billions, 40 billion, or 35 billion, as the bill says. I doubt that it is safe for us to pass so much money into traffic that would be needed to reduce the debt of the state to such large proportions, over 600 billion as it is mentioned. I think that's unrealistic. I find it a little boring to see such an analysis because it's not enough to give us a clear picture of what's going on here. It is our natural duty on the committee to explain why this is so stated. That can't be right. With regard to the other question about the banks, yes, I think it is quite clear that it may not be possible to meet the stability conditions, perhaps we need to see who this frame is and ask questions about him. [[We need to see it.]] We need to see it before something is gone. I think that's just the job that's left. I'm sure we'll be able to share that with us here at the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u112	Mr. President. I'd like to thank you too. A senator before the speech and celebrate it. I was very happy that I did. A senator here stresses things that others, including those of others, and especially those of his party brothers or members may not have talked much about. First, it is that the purpose of this operation is not to earn money but to ensure that this operation can become neutral to currency and payment balances and, secondly, to approach it not necessarily as whale drivers, but to other threads, and indeed, no less as a problem that needs to be dealt with. This is because there is too much money around here. We are still in this area with an expansive economy from the school years before the collapse, when there has been a triple of traffic and there has been no recovery of money. But part of this standing has been devoid of the economy in the past few years. The question is, Do not lose it. I think all good men and responsible men need to be very strong about holding back the forces that have been aroused by recent losses that are now opening up access to smoldering funds that could be blown out. It is of utmost importance that it is misleading that in a few of the losss, the interest cost of the state's budget will be dropped by 35 billion dollars. [[Up front.]] Yes, because it would have to be possible to pay up that debt, about ◯habjörg, the State's debt. It wouldn't be possible without any serious strain. The problem, for example, is that the next thing you could think of after that bond in the Secret Bank and the unfunded amount of debt was to pay on the State's future pension commitment, but the problem is that the pension fund would get that money and would go to war and drive them through. I'd like to, however, only mention the possibility of that relationship. He is that this would be played with the resources of the pensions to invest in foreign lands, that perhaps the State could pay something on the pension debt in accordance with the commitment of the government pension fund to invest them abroad. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u113	A respectable president. I didn't really sense a question in this counter, but maybe more specifically, we're not here talking about whale drivers, but problems that need to be destroyed. So I welcome our common sense. A senator on this matter. It is true that the ever-growing part of these credits, domestic property, has been disabled, and must remain, and the best way to ensure it would be, of course, that the Secret Bank would be able to remove it permanently by allowing it to disappear from its books into this well-designed net that is within its power to do it, because just as the Sheldabanan can create money, he can also delete them by the same procedure backwards. I think that right is that over a long enough number of years, I don't know how long it is, whether it's five or 15 years, then it's possible to get this money into traffic by lowering some debt, putting them in traffic when the economy gets bigger and can accept it, as I mentioned earlier, but surely you can't assume it in the next year.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u114	Mr. President. I've been thinking about, like, something like this, whether one of our ways of removing the amount of money would not just be making it disciplined by long - term policies, letting it work against the growth of the economy over a relatively long period of years. Of course, the money can be shredded, shredded, just to do so. I should not be surprised to examine it, at least a mixed way in that matter, that it will simply be determined that some part of it will be taken out of the process directly. So, of course, there may be certain possibilities to work on this in part by what the currency would allow, to send some of this money into a foreign crop. That might be fine in the long future, but we certainly need to earn it. By not allowing him to come in and spend here, he grabs and reinvests him abroad, perhaps sharing the funds from the Secret Bank and the investments of the pensions could be a solution to these materials. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u115	A respectable president. It's quite right around the corner. A senator that if there was a currency and he was willing to distribute, he might be able to take it and do fruit abroad. I still think - we're in the position that now an undeserved currency reserve is less than a hundred billion, I don't think I'm abstinent, I'm afraid I'm not very much. [[Top of the hall, hundred and fifty.]] I think it's not that easy to take the money out on a large scale that way. It would also take decades. I don't see anything else, unfortunately, but the way that goes up in my mind is either to lock it in an account, and then watch it as a temptation problem or just to let it go away which I think is by far the best and the most honorable. This doesn't exist. It's not a whale handler. We're clearing out an imbalance in the system and we can't start by moving the imbalance back into the system the next day.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u116	Mr. President. The objective of these primary metastases is to ensure economic stability and general goods. This is the rationalization that even 650 billion people go to pay off bonds at the Federal Bank and pay off debts experienced by the Icelanders as a government fund because of the collapse. This process is developing stability, but the stability created in the form of taking this money is not to be used as a waste but to correct the situation. After paying off the bond to the state fund and some other factors, including The campaign supply of the advance party and 11 other billion ends in the Sensitian Bank 5 billion on an unlocked account. No matter what is said here in the bill, however, it is still said that it can be taken into account in financial terms. It is thus seen in a cookie box containing 500 billion inside the Secret Bank, which politicians can set aside for financial gain. The temptation is huge, it's the value of a money print, which is exactly why we have been called the Secret Bank, not just the money printing authority of a financial committee or a financial minister. We're separating this, but this is where the value of this separation is no longer present. If politicians are tempted to reach out to this cakebox and start sliding, two things will happen; economic instability can follow if they become overly greedy, which means that inflation goes on full, which means that there is no room for reform for the people of the land who lose natural power because of inflation. And on the other hand, insurance mortgages are rising, it's going into very bad shapes, while the justification for taking this tax, i.e. Economic stability, then wind. The demandsmen can say: "Hey, this was a property video after all. ' You're just going for it and munching it. So it wasn't just to make sure that you're okay, that you won't starve, if we take the metaphor all the way. No, you're just greedy. It was a video of property after all. It will upset Iceland's legal position and all that, all the journeys of the last government, this government and the government during the last term, all of that will be upset. We're in a legal battle into the future. But will politicians not be tempted when they look ahead to reach the cakebox and think: " Are there just tens of thousands of millions, or something? ' Will they be tempted to do so? There is a reason why the power to make money is separate, that it has been kept at the Secret Bank because if politicians have, they are always tempted to do exactly that. There are two years in elections, the government is unpopular, and if we don't pay for it, if we don't put this cakebox somewhere in the closet or into a locked closet that's still better, I'm really worried that politicians will start making promises and even start spending this money after the election, and even before the election, to create a position. There is a real danger, so it is important that we end this possibility. There is an example in other countries where there is great value, where the wealth of government has suddenly had much to offer. In oil countries such as Norway and Saudi Arabia, around the world, such money has been locked up in funds where it can only be used on the grounds that it ensures economic stability. Then there was no legal uncertainty, they just wanted to secure the economic status factor. We have both. We will press that it will be guaranteed. I've heard that the World Bank can help us with this and that it has a clear word from counselors. Of course, we can get counselling from Norway and see how the Norwegians are doing this, but if we leave the cookie box unstopped in the Marine Bank's running account, there is a real danger that it will turn into a lot of surprise.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u117	Mr. President. It seems to me that we're finally coming to this discussion. I would have thought it was the highest. The minister of finance, who has been less than I expected, would be here, let alone the prime minister who was also described after an interesting meeting. We'll have to face a lot of situations because when we discuss the cases my opinion is that here are empty ministers, but I'm a little surprised that we've been living almost the same in these giant cases, ministers have not really been seen outside the very little to the highest degree. Financial and economic ministers were here yesterday. Of course, it would have been fascinating if he had responded to some of the points presented here to make up the last talk or the next last talk. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson, son of Siglejo, in many ways very melamenty. In effect, he went beyond us governmental opposers who may have spoken before him the strongest warning, asking men to hold back their joy that they have come with hundreds of billions of silver funds, which they could only go and drive out on both sides, as Egill had planned to do on the plains of the past if he had reached a council with the silver. Sadly, some have spoken that way. We have an understanding of a political need to try to do this, but it is all inferior that it is, of course, in direct opposition to the counseling of all our experts who have encouraged a great deal of restraint in how we deal with this on account of the legal and legal basis on which this operation rests, to emphasize that this is not done in order to obtain the wealth of swift pay to be set aside for some action or business. That would be about the worst thing we could do, not just because it would weaken our court case in case of such a trial, it would not look good to the international community and others if it had gradually become clear that the expedition had gone to it and that the other would be a form of economic necessity and economic need so that we could remove currency and get out of the reality and have long faced it. It is quite remarkable to experience discussions in Iceland now, 2015, of men who are likely to have been following political events, if not only here at the 2008 Congress when everything collapsed and the years ahead. Someone who had observed politics and economics in Iceland was surprised to see the problem in our faces in the autumn of 2008, e.g. what about the vast positions of foreigners in domestic resources? No. Ever since the growth trade started into the economy in 2004, this was a concern for all thinking people. I remember very well that time when -- President. It must have been more than two minutes, right? Am I not in my second speech of 15 minutes?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u118	Five minutes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u119	Yeah. No, 15? Well, then I have a miscalculation, I thought this was a double speech period for both primes, and I don't think the number two is at least ten minutes. I thought I would have that time to argue. However, this caught sight of us in the fall of 2008, the huge number of foreigners here in the valleys, and the consequences, among other things, that the fall of about 50% immediately resulted in an ethnic fall on the crown, and if I recall correctly, the euro cost more than 300 cents. The market immediately revealed that reality, in effect, paid a huge price to foreign currency, far beyond the collapse of the gang. This has been all along since, nothing new, nothing that anyone invented just before elections and so forth. That is why a currency head was placed, and this has been used ever since. I was going to, if I'd had a speech lesson that I hope has come true...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u120	The president can inform us that there was a agreement on a double session of public speaking in the first pass, which is not true of the second talks.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u121	It's very special. I had thought that it would not be taken from men's court by meddling with them, but it'll just be sitting. I had intended only comments to include a childish explanation for the top storylines. The prime minister, who, as in the past, was trying to release certain chapters of history or political history. In English it was the highest. The prime minister said that yes, it would have been good for a man to present the relief law. He didn't touch it, but thanks to him, everything else that had happened in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u122	Mr. President. There's one thing I forgot to mention here, and it's that the prosperity we can face in contrast is in the form of our paying off debts, and it's not just a fortune. We must not be greedy now, we have to pay off these debts because when we pay off our debts, we're leaving these debts to the future generations. That's one of the big and important things in this case that I wanted to make clear. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-11-127.u123	The president was going to make a comment, but the president had failed to realize that. A senator, who had already spoken twice, thought that an answer was involved, but a senator has finished his talk. [[I was going to...]]
