ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u1	A respectable president. A lot of things happened yesterday, it was the day of great news. I wanted to use this opportunity today to celebrate the decision that finally became reality yesterday regarding the silicar of Bakka, across the corner. It is worth thinking that this is a policy change that took place during the last term when Alcoa's patents were taken to have an opportunity to build at Bakka at Húsavík, and we began to focus on smaller and medium-sized projects that are less than we have been able to do and will not cause the extensive expansion that could have been possible. I think it's a great improvement for a defensive region. The population formulation has been rather negative both in Húsavík and in the South Germany. It's really good in a structured way. This creates a greater variety of employment opportunities. There will be secondary jobs in the area and enjoyable for areas that have been building up, including around the tourism, the challenge of making it work together. There will be 400 construction projects and 120 future jobs. Then, of course, it's not my second job. This is important for a small community like Húsavík, but this large area is underneath. It can also be noted that the major initiatives started there have the effect of other secondary work in the region of industrial development for these SMEs to become possible, otherwise unattainable. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u2	V.E.G. President. In a two-minute talk that I have for distribution under this part of the program, I want to celebrate two steps, one large step in the release of a pensioner yesterday and the other, actually, a major milestone in the preparatory construction of Bakka in Húsavík. First to the currency heads. It seems to me that it was very well and professionally done on this project by the Federal Bank and the bank manager, a staff, a government, and all the foreign experts involved. This is a special reason to keep in mind what you can do when you stand together and find out what you are doing. The premise, of course, is a law code since March 2012. I don't want my boy to remind me of her vote, what she was like, but much and good language was there, which made it possible for us to go that way. I also am delighted that instead of a bankruptcy route, there is a great deal of business to be taken away, including the possibility of litigation. This will have an important and positive effect, such as a reduction in interest rates, which allows them to make room for government funds in the years to come to have a better share in the growth of the land. Then the reduction in advance of projects at Húsavík. It's finally starting, at last, at a rate of 40 billion dollars. building on the factory, 400 jobs will be created during the construction period at the factory and one 300 jobs on other projects, such as transport projects, portworks, energy projects, and such. The factory will create 120 future jobs plus secondary activities. A respectable president. I'm really happy for this. Senators of the Northeast District and government have been talking about the need for a long time to build up elsewhere, but in the Great Reggios. It's working on this project that's about to begin, and I'm celebrating very much. A new period of building is beginning in the northeast.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u3	V.E.G. President. There is good reason to rejoice over yesterday's grand news when the first real step was taken into custody. If the wording ever applied to a spectacular conclusion, I think it could be said yesterday. The conclusion shows that there was a level of action in this case, and the result is that of all those who came to high esteem, both the experts and the committees appointed, but especially the president of the government. At the time when this conclusion was first mentioned in the 2013 election campaign, a joyful campaign was spoken, and so on, but the conclusion of yesterday shows what a determined will, determination, courage, and a clear vision of the future can be accomplished. The same courage was expressed in the battle for the failure of the people to submit to Icesave people. This is the same determination as that of men who had the courage to put forward and perfect the correction. It's not a coincidence. It's a smell of the same hurt and it's supposed to be something special. Of course, a person is deeply pleased that the demands of the slaves have seen what peace was heard and have decided to negotiate but are not tested on a court route. I think we'll all be happy and that yesterday, June 8, 2015, will be remembered for a long time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u4	V.E.G. President. I also come here to describe my joy with the actions introduced yesterday. So yesterday, it is a pleasure to hear the parapolitic agreement on the subject. It's especially pleasant to see what's happened. Group members are very positive in these measures, including the U.S. because of the words as of breath. paritaprevir The Árni Páll Árnason gave in to a statement of the highest rank. Prime Minister who has been imprisoned. A couple of months ago, he told the Eyjans that a statement by Sigmundur at the forward party council was embarrassing and that it would be foolish to let such fairy taleism pass through. A story published in DV during the campaign some two years ago said the same thing. A senator who was to be decommissioned would probably be impossible without a film euro. On the face of a book. Last night, a senator could read a comment that criticized the project of the forwarding party in the government for the past two years. Nevertheless, I would like to express the satisfaction of the seemingly parapolitic reconciliation that seems to be involved, and I believe that most people support it. This is the case, as has been noted many times in the discussions, two ways in which you can choose for your wear, and it is estimated that these ways can yield some 850 billion. We runners are very pleased with these findings, for after the last election, the head of the parish was the leading, the highest. Prime Minister Davíð Gunnlaugsson, the only one who spoke of the real presence of this room. Since then and until the introduction, a loud voice of doubt has been heard about the possibility of success. It was nice to hear last night's media talk as they were reviewing the campaign, and it was said that he was the only one who would have dared discuss these things.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u5	A respectable president. Last week, the highest. Secretary of finance at the council, by permission of the President: To me, this is primarily an evidence that the labour market model we use in Iceland is defective. Then he said: We need to move to a new model, more towards the North American model. That will be the project for the next year. A respectable president. V.E.G. A minister of finance needs to understand that there is a profound disagreement in society. A new model won't be set up like that. In the past, when the fishing road, the nation's basic construction site, was fighting in the banks, his problems were at regular intervals cast upon the people with gangs. When the commercial industry is blessed with making a lot of money, the profit is at an all - out rate. The resource owner, the nation, is exploited to name the correct names. The accelerator's accelerator flows to the industry, which is the kind of sale price for it. Traveller's still enjoying a student of worth-employment tax, making Iceland's nature without paying for it. The highest pay is raised. The government reduces hunting costs, cancels capitals, and increases food tax and now decides to reduce or eliminate electrical taxes on the scale. When this injustice has been eliminated, it is time to speak of the Norwegian model. President, I've said that before, and I've still said that the job life, and particularly the part of the rest, will be involved in the cost of community life. Among other things, social costs are paying government employees cheaply. Let us undo the injustice, reap the cookie again, and then the Norwegian labour market model comes more and less of itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u6	Mr. President. What a joy it is that there is an interpolitian agreement for the plan for decommissioning the budget! I'm thinking, everybody wanted Lilja's order. There's a bit of a thing, so now men come forward and want to claim that they've taken a stand in the bank of a currency quadrupt. That's not the way it is. We all have something to do with it. I'd like to quote a popular lyrics with Baggaluth, with president's permission: '-'We don't do nothing on our own. There's nothing more complicated than that. All of us need to lie down on a river, as shown in the same text. This has been true since 2008 by means of emergency law, which was, of course, the beginning of the need. Then another government will take over, and it will work with specialists and will work hard and get ready to drag into the head of currency, which is a big step because otherwise it would not have been possible to take on the action we are going to now. Then this government continues work from the first term, and now there is a plan that I'd like everyone to like. We are to continue that solidarity but not be like a rooster in a hurry to figure out who did the most for the hard work that we as a community have to do. That's very good. You see, we often have to think so that we don't do shit on our own. We need to be solidarity, and I'm happy with the agreement on emissions of capital waste.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u7	V.E.G. President. It was a happy day yesterday, considering what affects all the people of the country, the disposal of a currency school, but I also want and perhaps primarily at the sea of my hometown, Húsavík. There was good news, and I want to thank everyone who came to realize this Húsavík's dream, to make the town's dream that it would grow and thrive, that we would no longer see our work disappear from this town. Happily, there are very strong people who believe in their country, on their prayers, and they certainly do, in that we shall now see ahead of great building projects, both in this large company that is involved in adding 120 jobs to the community, but as has been shown here by other Councilers of the North-Current District, this will also lead to secondary work. And I say that I believe that this will include the institutions of education that are in the region, and we can begin to emphasize that there will be a more diverse study. All we can do is look to the East and what happened there when the studio hit a crash. This meant an increase in education. Hústíkíkíkíðarís has always been a big fan, and I'm proud of my people.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u8	A respectable president. I'm celebrating, as others have suggested, the release of capital syrup, and I have to say for the moment that I'm looking forward to working with everyone here at the council on this matter because there's been so much controversy lately that a person is beginning to thirst for something that we can all agree to be a positive goal. Likewise, the ideas look good, at least quickly, and with the awareness that we will discuss all of this together. But I have to say, I'm a little worried about Icelandic society and the economy, because once we've cleared the capital capital capitals, which everyone agrees to have to do, I'm afraid we're going to look forward to a time of sobriety. I'd like to say that the Icelanders are basically out of financial trouble, that we as a nation know money very badly, not just members of Congress, but bankers as well as the common people. And that makes me feel like a very serious problem, really the most serious financial problem in the country is how Icelanders, senators, bankers, and everyone in the community view money and money. Now I see a story like that. on the round road. which shows that most people not all selling cars are offering 100% auto loans, which somehow sounds awesome, borrowing a whole car, but it's not necessarily a good idea. I'm afraid the Icelanders will go back to taking loans as free money and a bill as a lottery, and I'm afraid of that, and I'm warning you. We all must be as a nation, and I do not repeat as a council, nor as a banking system, but as a nation, to understand the systems we insist on being righteous. The most obvious thing about the future is what we may forget most, which is that it comes. She'll be here. And we must understand what is coming. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u9	President. Last week, journalist Erla Hilynsdóttir Hlynsdóttir a case against the Icelandic State in the European Court of Human Rights. This is the third time Erla wins a case that involves freedom of expression and injury to the European Court of Human Rights, and it may be possible that Björk Eiðsdóttir would perform similar cases in 2012. I'd like to refer to an article in the Women's Journal, by Eva Hauksdóttir, which says, by permission of the president: This latest issue of Erla is the 16th issue taken against the European Court of Human Rights and the 13th lost by the United States. President. Then you wonder: Is there any possibility that there is something wrong with our laws, or is there a possibility that there is something wrong with our courts when it comes to freedom of expression? I am deeply concerned about how one matter after another has been brought back to the province by freedom of expression. I think it is urgent that we make sure that we recognize the importance of keeping watch and maintaining our freedom of expression. In this article, we will also see by means of the president's permission, Eva Hauksdóttir: It is noteworthy that in the case of the European Court of Human Rights, the European Court has violated Article 10. The European Convention of Human Rights (in terms of freedom of expression), the same judges, repeatedly, have reached the wrong conclusion. It is noteworthy, President, that in an interview at Channel 1, Gunnar Ingi Jóhannsson, an attorney of Erla, said that the Ministry of Internal Affairs had refused a request for financial assistance so that they could take the case from the European Court of Human Rights. The answer was that there would be no money. At the same time, the local minister of the press asks that journalists be in prison, be charged and go to prison for freedom of expression. [[The president calls.]] This is a serious matter to me, and I feel that the council should take much more attention to this series.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u10	A respectable president. I'd like to agree that last night there was a great deal of joy with the news that at that time the community was infested, and I think it was very important that it flowed across the lakes that the state of transverse reconciliation. We put our heads together in our time, and we're supposed to get them together. This is not the case with political lines. Therefore, I especially want to rejoice that the words of the Prime Minister in the News newspaper today indicated that he felt that this was an example of a big case that would be involved in the removal of dams in the work of the Generals. I agree, and I expect that, of course, the fact that the prime minister and the president of the government are in our position to share with us in the government opposition that since time has passed and the work plan has fallen, we need to put aside some conflict and resolve to accept the agreement. On Monday of last week, the government provided a list of 74 cases under the heading "Preparation. " The same list was on Thursday, and we haven't seen a new list, the 74 cases have not gone down. If they're all supposed to be on the table, we still have to work here on a shopping weekend. So I expect a word of the highest order. Prime Minister means that we share in the sense that at a meeting of the number of leading classes today, the government provides a practical plan for the end of the council, where reasonableness is shown and when people realize what is important and that now there is no time to put all the weight on a conflict matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u11	V.E.G. President. I woke up in the morning feeling a little better, as is the custom of progressives. During the day of light, I heard talk about strikes, the lack of goods, and the political labor movement. - There's nothing to negotiate about something that's not the basis, said why. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son, at the same time that everyone has contributed to the stability of concomitantly increasing the cost. Verucological check, like a oo. A senator has a song that reminds us that our assignments are serious and that everyone has to take responsibility. A respectable president. It may be in the packed stream to the release of capital syrup, but yesterday the government introduced in its Sharp plan, in a clear and understandable way, a plan that should enhance optimism by the nation, and suggestions on permanence and stability tax, which may not be required to enter a requirement for the conditions. If, as it were, there is positive evidence that the outcome can be negotiated, it is hoping that the release of this huge economic, economic, and economic situation of the nation will result in a total of 1,200 billion dollars. We've been living with these seas for seven years and the inevitable. Now, over two years, the government has been able to provide the greatest experts and Iceland's Secret Bank to provide a credible complete plan to solve the impending financial problems facing the land estates of broilers, 900 billion dollars. ... andtheexploitorsof 300 billion. The key point is this, a respectable president. The plan will go out to defend national interest, to reduce national debt and ensure the country's standard of living for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u12	A respectable president. There is certainly reason to congratulate the government on the results and the stage that arrived yesterday. I do it with all sincerity. I'm very happy that this has been a responsible route, and I don't think that's at all, even if you're taking it in particular to the highest degree. The minister of finance is to be given credit for his success in this case, and, of course, the Councilman also is to be honored. Everyone knows that there have been many ends that have had to be tied down in these matters, some of which are quite close to and even within the government. However, it is not easy for you to see that there is now a general attempt to rewrite the story, especially by the progressive ones on this matter have discussed in a public field. You see, it's not like that. Prime Minister Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson was the only one who spoke about the leeway in the last election. Everybody did. Everyone knew it was there. There was, however, much doubt that it could be used to pay off public debts. That, of course, is what they said was a reckless, reckless plan. It's been a while. The prime minister has been asked here in this hall, including one of the presidents of Birt's future, or why. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson's son: shouldn't we negotiate with demands? Aren't they going to do that? The answer to that from the highest. Prime Ministers have been on the way to plaguing the plot. When asked if he was going to use the space or funds needed to build a hospital, the manager was again. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson, accused of working for the demands. So it is essential that all this story be held at the same time as you rejoice that a responsible conclusion has been chosen. We are also concerned about the currency that this conclusion implies that the demands are left to 40% of their property without a lawsuit. [[The president calls.]] What does this tell us about the blessed crown?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u13	A respectable president. There may be some misunderstanding. A senator when he's in his final question, I assume he's speaking down the crown. The fact is, even if you can have doubts, there are obvious faults of Icelandic dollars - that we could never have gone to all these things except because we had our own currency. But how happy we are to see that we have reached that conclusion! It's good to hear it when you listen to it. Government opposers, that they seem to support the actions and declare their solidarity. It's a pleasure. But this is just one step, a very pleasant step. However, it is vital that we strengthen our confidence in what lies ahead. The next step is, in my opinion, that we don't spend this money, the amount of space it makes, to something other than paying off debt. Only interest payments will decrease 30 thousand million during this operation at a government fund. That's an enormous amount of money. But better, if it's enough. I hope that we are discussing a bill about changing government funds so that we can review whether we cannot agree to change the discussion and the work environment when it comes to budgeting. It's not just about us in this house, it's also about the media and the public. Similarly, I hope that we will calmly consider how the countries we would like to compare with, in particular, the North countries, work their public finances, as well as how they behave in business conflicts. If we do so in a calm manner, I think we can achieve an extremely good solid solid solid solidarity across categories and build on the great success that this government has achieved. She will be remembered as the government that broke the debt of public, homes, and government funds. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u14	President. After the news of the last few years, the hope is that it is breaking up in terms of financial matters following the programme of action that has been proposed and performed under the head of the bank managers and good professionals, domestics and foreigns, and by all categories. I guess you can name names like that for a sign, theirs. Senators and the present and then the highest. Minister of Steingrímur I. The J. of Sigfússon, the Árni Páll the Árnason of Aarna, and Bjarni the son of Benediktsson. Finally, the trade route was gone, like that. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall pointed out. A former government policy came to an end when, although not always enough, the process of negotiation usually works out the best. The result is this. Both the present government and the last one chose the same route of negotiation. Finally, the same main policy is taken during the two terms. Interestingly, while the present government is like the old government in this regard, the present political opposition is not like the old government in this regard. Now the government has hailed what has happened and, of course, points to the role of the last part of the Senate in this matter, the last of which was the two political groups held in silence against the laying of such a foundation. In March 2012, we will be delighted to remember our votes and then to mention the vows of clubs and shotguns, the words of treason and solidarity with demands. The question can be acknowledged in the newsletter's message today, which is exactly the way in which the convention was selected. It asks why we had to wait for two years to go on the contract, starting these negotiations. It says that we need to compare these two plans with what we have lost in waiting for two years to take the course that had already been established in the last government. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] One last sentence, President: But what we need to do now is to decide permanently how we're going to build up after this and may well remind us that while we are celebrating this council, the state itself is in a tighter dispute with at least two important groups in our community. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u15	It was a fairly long sentence at the end. [[Taken up: Phrase is a sentence.]] Mr. President is not going to argue with what. A senator on its grammatical diagnosis. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u16	A respectable president. I'm going to step into the public assembly today to celebrate yesterday and the future, for yesterday there was a historic moment in the affairs of the Icelandic nation when the government was introduced as a means of removing currency. I look forward to sharing in this discussion tomorrow, and I will stress that the funds there may come to be used to pay off the foreign debt of the state's funds, thereby reducing the Kingdom interest costs, etc., so that it can come as far as most people can. My business here today was equally related to another matter that I participated in in Riga recently, along with members of the Northern Council, where we had a conversation with Latvian authorities to learn about the situation and to offer help to the Northern Nations in the battle against a man trader. We met with a representative of the Latvian Council of Human Rights, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the prosecutor, and the police. In addition, we meet a sister group in Iceland called MARTA, where we have a very good job to help victims of human halls and educate the common people. We, the North countries, offered help with Latvian authorities and expressed a great willingness to use the political scene in the Northern States to help our neighbors fight these slave trades today. I would like to challenge us Icelanders to be on guard when it comes to human halls, but unfortunately, there have been a number of cases in this country, and for a long time, dance clubs or champagne clubs have come up on the platform here on the country where there are strong suspicions of connection with prostitution and prostitutes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u17	President. The first round. On this matter, a four - year - old national budget, 2016-52019, I concluded that for the first time, I felt very progressive that this plan was put forward. Granted, there have been some loose plans until this is the first time by law proposed by this national budget. It is a big step in progress, leading us into the process of taking Kingdom interests more seriously and looking forward to the future. I agree that we wanted this plan to be more accurate, wanted it to be divided into a frame so that it would be clear how the various categories and so forth are focused on the streets, but I want to look through my finger with it and say, "This is the first plan that comes up, and it's only natural that it's not exactly what we would have chosen most. They need to be learned as well as others. All plans will change over time, something will come up, and they need to be adjusted. However, the basis for all of this is the basis for which it is based. It seems to me that, as we discussed yesterday, among other things and perhaps especially now because of the glad tidings, which I agree with other members of the council to be natural good news, this is now a plan to release the currency headache - but as we have also seen, it will certainly change for this plan we're discussing here. I certainly wondered yesterday if I could conduct a talk I had thought something about over the weekend, how it should be, because I feel that the basics for the budget are smiling so much now that I feel that it's kind of disrespectful to all the work we've been doing are continuing to discuss this on the same basis. I also don't think it's disrespectful to us at the council, me and the senators, that we are in this discussion because we are so missing at the foundation right now. Then you can also say: Why is the woman giving this speech if she feels that she is speaking out or talking about something that is not entirely shallow? But I'm going to say that despite the fact that these foundations have gone away, there is a big political news in this program, as must be a huge part of a financial program. As has been said, money is the power of what to do. Hence, this is also a beginning of history as to who to be the focus of the government in the next few years. Since I disagree very much and I think that some of the things that are going on in this program I think it's right to keep this speech here because I'm afraid that even the 30 billion that I think we hope are expecting if we can reduce the government's interest money, and although we don't know how the government thinks to solve them - I'm still afraid that the big political lines that show up in this proposal wouldn't be much different from them right now. That's why I'm going to give this speech. But I don't view it as disrespectful of the great work being done here, the great first step taken by presenting an imperfect financial program. I feel it from the beginning because it might be more detailed, I look through my finger with it, but I think it disrespects this job and I think it's a little bit of an expression about what goes on in the Senate, that those in charge of the quest say: Yes, this will be discussed, and it seems that the more part is going to agree with this plan, though it is clear that a very important basis for what it is based on has changed. I worked on a projection for years, and I know that the criteria are important. One of the factors involved in this government's budget is that it is not to be used in terms of financial exchange in the community rather than in any other way that this government has undergone. I speak here as a member of the United States Parliament of the United States of Iceland. It may not be surprising, though, that I look at things in society. At times, people act as if it were enormously significant that they were more equal in this country than in the general population. Some even show that enough of this phenomenon, the equation, is involved. On the other hand, it seems to me that there is an even greater equality in a nation of people of some 320 thousand that has adopted other social structure, such as Monaco or Liechtenstein, that there is an even greater equality than among other nations. It is a characteristic of our nation, and we are to be proud of it and to cling to it with all our means. Although there is an even greater proportion of people among us than the general population, this does not mean that there is no reason to add to it. During the years before the collapse, there was an inequities. A fine man put it to me so hard that he could not understand what people were going to do with all the money they worked hard to get by. In that infected atmosphere of the superpowers, there was an increase in the inexorability of the school years before collapse. In the collapse, much of these wealth disappeared, although much of it still remains, resulting in an equalizing of the riches it had already been before a crash. Not only did this happen in this country but it was also in other countries that became the financial crisis, although countries would certainly be so extensively and never so bad as here. We can also take pride in this, although it is not natural to be proud, that we have three of the largest ten bankruptcyes in the world, we, this little nation. This is not to be proud of; rather, it should serve as a warning example. And it's a sign of how things can go if the system and we, the people of the country, fall asleep on guard. Something never to happen again. But this has not only increased in recent years because of the disappearance of wealth but also because the government's actions, the left government, followed by the financial collapse, were guided by efforts to protect the disappointed. That is why it is urgent to improve their economic benefits now and even before the work programme of the EU has been submitted to the Supreme Work Programme. Secretary of finance better than ever here in our nation. During the past week, the head of the Agency made good clear how an equation has never been more measured in this country than in 2014. She could not help but see that this was good news. That is why I would find it interesting to hear her view of the financial program that we are considering. It is proclaimed that the prenupity of public workers increases by 2% over inflation during 2016-2019, while improvements in social security increase at the same time by 1% above inflation. It will not maintain the equation that has been reached and, among other things, took place with the arrangements of the last government. It would also be interesting to hear a attitude. paritaprevir The Þórunn's Egilsdóttir and her party brothers and perhaps especially a party sister are supposed to simplify the tax system, which simply means that the income balance power of the income tax system will be reduced. How do they feel about the need to reduce their consumption? It can only affect public service, health and education systems. How do those requiring transportation feel that the funds intended for investment according to this schedule will not be sufficient for the canceling? In other words, walk on the inside. The land hospital does not take place in the program nor does its investments in the facilities that the government has preached. Last week, the member of the Independence Party said that we officers who wanted to keep on a step-traveling income tax should keep us on the mat because, in negotiations of a general labour market, unions and professional unions would agree to the process as part of the contract. Now it would be unnecessary to talk more about it. It's the same council leader who just said in the first winter that we would not agree on a dollar or a percentage increase in collective agreements. But here we are dealing with the tax system, and it is a serious matter to use power groups to establish their political policies, such as the building of the tax system. Easily could have brought in the tax reductions that are laid out and would have been most useful to the media. The tax reductions in these people could easily have been made without changing the tax system, as is currently expected. But the will of the government did not exist. That's the point. The power groups, so I use wording. paritaprevir Acquirers, Össur of Skarphéðinsson, are not afraid to push their political goals against those circumstances. They take advantage of an extremely serious position in a workforce. What would have happened? Even if hired men had said, " No, we want to keep the income tax step by step? ' Certainly, negotiationrs would not have had any other goal than achieving contracts for their clients. They would have been considered to be landless and footwearing. It would have been said: They're in politics, that's all that matters to them. And that they wanted to endanger the economy. A respectable president. I'd like to say here that I will fight for the step-traveling income tax from now on as far as it goes, which is a powerful cash balance device to be used for that purpose. Then I'll come back to what I said here at the beginning, that the basis for plans is the basis for all planning. Therefore, I would like to reiterate that I consider it a disgrace to the great work here that we will discuss it when the premise has changed, as it were. I'd like to specifically mention the emissions programme. But there is more. It's the collective agreements, that's the question of the bank sale in this bill. The Treasurer's Conference agreed that a community bank should be established here, which can be a good thing. How, then, can the group stand for a three - year financial program that expects the bank to be sold to a community bank? I wonder: Eight of the senators here who are going to accept this program - I will not accept it, but I rejoice that it is submitted - on what is in the plan? They're members of the council who come up here twice a week, preferably if they can and give two minutes' answer as to what's going to be good in this society and how their homes are being saved. It is natural that rich homes have been saved more than the less fortunate. There is nothing yet to say about how to help people or to meet potential tenants. All surveys reveal that there is a group of people who can be remembered in this society. Then come the women that are drawn up, especially them--I'm sorry to say so, but there are some of them, and they follow after them--and say, 'These things will come to pass.' V.E.G. The social and housing minister has had two years to present these suggestions and they are not yet established. Now they're told they're part of the collective agreements, and there's nothing about it in this plan, nothing. Will these senators accept this silent and silent action? Sometimes I wonder that people don't fully understand what's going on here, except for the council. These people can't be seen in a council hall as I've mentioned before, there's one candidate here and no one else. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u18	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a good speech. As we know, this national budget is largely developed and policy and income and expenditure in the big context. Hv. A senator wondered if they realize what is really being up to the State's budget for the next four years, whether it is practical, or if it is just a token to fulfill a financial program. I think it's a very important question: Is there any reason why the plan is smiling? Hv. A senator introduced the matter of the Hospital. I'd like to hear more from what. A senator about him. The land hospital's not in there, he's not expected. You ask yourself, " Should he be financed in another way? ' All I want is to hear the senator's attitude toward it. As with the age of aging, I understand that the way of rent is not to continue, but it also needs to be financed by the elderly, is it not? Also, 30% of sales at the Bank of the Lands were included. The government groups do not agree, so there is also uncertainty. Should we sell the Lands Bank, or should we keep it when the government groups do not agree on what to do? It was noted that at his party council, the advance party agreed that we should have the Lands Bank, and I agree. And with regard to deposit at the State Department of Pension, is that expected in this program?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u19	No, a respectable president. Although no deposit is expected in the State's Pension Fund, we know that it lacks hundreds of millions of dollars. As for Land Hospital, he will not be taken care of in this program. If I remember correctly, and I think it's true, we agreed here at the council that it should be publicized, that it should not be done on my own. So I wondered, " What are we going to do with it? ' As with my investments, as I entered their speech, theirs is nowhere in this program. They have been mentioned many times in these discussions, whether in nursing homes or in places to be built for which the Kingdom would suggest, but they cannot be found here. Now, it may be a pity to respect the fact that this is the first time such a program is proposed, but I have the impression that the government groups are not fully aware of what this plan is. It's about political emphasis for the next four years. Now the members of Congress have been given a tour of the plan, and I have a feeling that it had nothing to do with it. Rather, they said, "Here's the kingdom plan, accept it, it can go out."
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u20	Mr. President. Yes, it is very much worth considering whether members of the general body of Congress are taking this budget seriously enough, that this is the policy document to be used in such a strategy. It is very good that we are going to work with such programs. Icelanders have been known for not thinking over the years when they plan things. But I just want to hear from you. A senator with regard to his dues. It is a much lower proportion of GDP in our country than in other parts of the North countries, which they want to compare with when discussing collective agreements, such as labour. A senator came in earlier. Can we be competitive about people and businesses if we're not in the same place as the prime fees, that proportion of GDP, to build up every infrastructure in the future? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u21	Brief answer: No, a respectable president. It's fine when you want to be responsible and say, "We need the Norwegian labour market model, we need it. But we have none of what the Norwegian communities have. We have much less drinking, and if we are less able to earn a share or to pay at the expense of our community, we are going to pay less money. We have a much worse health system. We make people pay much more when they get sick. How on earth can humans come and insist that we have a Norwegian labour market model when we don't have any of the rest of the North countries in our system? It doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u22	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech, and I'm glad that this plan has been established. But I don't think it meets the purpose of the law because it's supposed to follow a frame around the platform, but it isn't. But, hey. In his speech, a senator covered a wide range of subjects. I'd like to point out one big point in view of the fact that yesterday a language relating to housing improvements was here and spoke kindly. A senator a little bit about it. I would like to quote only the review of the financial Council, using this on page 5. 58 and 59, which are expected to be 80 million. K. Last year, the maintenance costs of an insurance agency due to the operating of the housing reform system are up to 20 billion. K. 2 billion dollars are then spoken of. increase and is stated that it is not expected in a financial programme, in either the current or the proposed programme. It tells us that the contribution of the state funds could be less than that, if not the bill would remain the same, i.e. there will be no counter-improvements, such as, as follows, by permission of the president: ▪... such as reducing other expenses or funding the expansion by further tax returns. Here, too, it is necessary to change the law on farm income companies in order to reduce contributions from the state's funds. Third, the review suggests that analysis of new housing improvements suggests that rent subsidies will increase proportionately as household income increases, and this does not correlate with the objective of the bill. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Parliament, whether he believes that the bill is offered solely to show off and will not be approved or settled at this council. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u23	A respectable president. I don't know about that. There have been further improvements, with 72 bills to be done by the end of the council, now 73. It's just been made. The government has not put its priorities in place. It's clear that we don't settle 72, 73, or 74 cases at this council unless we get past the shopping weekend, and that's a question. It will be interesting to see if this bill on the improvement will be on the top priority of the government. I don't trust myself to tell you. What I find strange about this national budget is that there are no boundaries, there are no upper or lower limit. First of all, she's not exactly like we wanted her, but this is also the first time she's submitted. We forgive it, but it should have been the upper and lower limit, i.e. You might be able to do this if this happened, and if something else goes wrong, we have a lower limit. There's no such thing in this program, which is a bad thing. There aren't any babffers in there. The plan is very strange, and obviously it cannot be entered with regard to individual spending teams. That's why people have been talking about the big things. Everything's missing for housing, everything's missing for Land Hospital. The bank doesn't hold up an agreement. The audience speaks against the bank sale, sounds me, so there's a lot very vague in this whole situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u24	Mr. President. I agree with that, and I'm very concerned that this bill will be passed on. I'm the highest. To review the case, a president will then be called back to the committee. It can be fixed. It is really a turning point to make such a plan, and although it is a plan, we have so much adjustments that we need to make when we have the opportunity to do so. There's something else I wanted to mention, and there's the S-labelled medicine, i.e. the medicines used to treat the hospital. This is a list of 3% of the old age pensions and 2% of pension bonds, but also 3% of S-labelled medicinal products. I'm very concerned that it doesn't work because I think there's a greater need for new drugs, and we've been told through the media that it is. Now that there is only a slight rise, that need seems to be ignored. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking why. A senator whether she agrees with me in this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u25	A respectable president. I'm afraid a 3% increase in the S-labelled medicinal products is not enough. Over the years, the number of costs of these drugs has been very high. These are the new and expensive products that are very expensive because they have a patent right to the top. In fact, I think it is one of the challenges that health authorities have to deal with and focus on how we put priorities and what we allow. I'm using the verb "I'm going to let go," because these are huge sums of money, which is about playing a game and we can't overlook it. All societies need to face the issue, and we need to do the same. We need to get at the table what we're talking about in real life because I often don't think it that's clear enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u26	A respectable president. I thank the senator for his speech. I'm a little bit concerned that here we are, in effect, working with a document as a financial minister required to contribute according to the Senate, but in 6 mg. 25. According to Congress, with the proposal for the initial change of expenses for the next year, the budget will follow for the next three years. So this is not a matter of choice but of speech as supreme. A minister is obliged to present himself before the Council. Then, as a discussion of the matter goes forward, it shows that we are dealing with it when large sizes are moving in the economy and close to the economy, as it were, that people act like nothing and act as if it were normal to continue their work with their finger in their ears and leaves in front of their eyes. I think that's a concern because I'm not better, but it's not too complicated to update. Of course, the program will not be taken into consideration, but I don't think it's the least thing that committees are up - to - date with the reality that has changed yesterday and so on by action related to collective agreements. In the majority opinion, it says, with permission of presidents: The plan shows that despite the positive signs in all major sectors of the budget, there are important uncertainty factors. It makes the most of the results of collective contracts and budget-creature deduction... This is what we're considering now, and I thought it would be cool, and I don't think it would take long if the committee took it back in and just made minimal changes in the committee opinion. Although a person is not making a requirement to adopt the national budget as a whole, at least it is not that it seems as if the council was asleep in the processing and processing of these cases.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u27	A respectable president. I couldn't agree with that. In fact, before yesterday, I felt that the majority of the legal committees were a little like men saying: "Yes, we have to do this in the Senate, so we have to take care of it. So it's written some nice text, and there's nothing that's uncomfortable and that's from then, we don't have to think about it anymore. I say it exactly as it is, this scares me a little because I think this four-year financial plan is and can be a very important document in the future. That is why we should treat her with deep respect when she is first submitted. That is why I would have felt respected and respected the objective of this four - year - old business plan, that as soon as they saw that this major budget release plan was coming, and that has something to do with them and is added to the collective agreements, the legal committee should have come and say: We're going to take it here. And then they could have made a text that says, " We're not going to take up the whole plan,'but we're going to draw attention to this and the other and something up the street. [[The president calls.]] It would be done everywhere except here in the atmosphere we live tonight and almost that night now, a respectable president. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u28	Mr. President. It's dangerous, and I think the President must also be thinking that we will be involved in such an important collection of such lightly. It must be obvious to everyone that when the premise has changed, it is very strange to discuss a case and shut it down. The matter is still under discussion at the council, and I don't think anyone is talking about it. If the government budget is closed like this and it's taken care of in this way, we're saying it doesn't matter, it's really just a formal form, it's just part of some sort of form, some kind of duty to the council, some kind of duty to form, but it's not about content. I fear them lightly and with that attitude not only toward the council but also to the fact that there is a real content of what the council does here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u29	A respectable president. I say again, it's kind of like reading out of my mouth. I agree with this. I've said that before, I told it at the council several times yesterday, I've said that in this speech, and I told it in my first talk that I think this is a remarkable step being taken here. I think it might be a good idea for a government case in this country to be taken more seriously than it has ever been before. There is no need for this. Therefore, I feel that for the first time that this program is taken up from the council, it is not made as if it were some document that was of no importance and without having to look over it and recognize the great change that took place during the discussion at the Senate Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u30	A respectable president. I'm going to do a few words on the state financial program. Of course, first of all, it is inevitable to talk about what has been mentioned here, the fact that the plan is here really to be done without any material assets. There have been two fundamental changes since the fact came out of the committee. The second big change is the big one, yesterday, about the announcement of a long-term course that would likely be due, if all treaties go along, one hundred billion to the decrease in government debt, and the growing burden of the state. The second amendment is the proposed change in housing practices in the preparation of collective agreements. Neither of these factors can be found on the basis of the national budget as it is, and thus it does not reach its objective. As is well explained in the majority opinion, the purpose of this law in concedition, by permission of the President, is to move the budget process back to the year, thereby allowing for a more extended period of time at the General Assembly for policy-making coverage and a major component of budget making. When it comes to making donations in the fall of the budget, these main points of the budget will already be discussed. Now, the main lines of the state's budget just aren't clear according to this budget, and frankly this reminds me a little of the situation we were in out of urgent distress in the fall of 2008, when a financial bill was discussed assuming reasons that everyone knew had disappeared. This was suggested in the beginning of October 2008, according to the terms of engagement. Then the banks collapsed. 1st. Hence, money was absolutely amusing because it was a bill that was very obvious that it could not be obtained. They expected income that everyone knew would not come, and no one had already thrown their expenses into account that were inevitable. Then the budget was changed completely between discussions. I actually think that this program is now calling for the case to go back to the committee, and I might just ask for a new committee opinion in which people take these circumstances into consideration and what their viewpoint is. One way is to say that in the opinion of the greater part as well as in the original Minister's plan, significant property sales are expected and are supported by the need for it to reduce the State's interest costs. The members of the body say, on permission of the president: The strategy shows that the sum of interest from a bank collapse at the 2015 price is about 580 billion. Therefore, it is urgent to sell stocks in financial companies and other partners, as well as not to reinvest part of the debt of currency [...] This must be done on the one hand to strengthen the state's position on economic swings and on the other hand, in order to reduce the rate of interest, thereby increasing the amount of growth. to build up and face the rising cost of aging and pension commitment. This trend has changed in some respects because it is now apparent that considering the financial cost of the bill that we will discuss tomorrow, a stable tax system, the reduction in the annual Kingdom interest costs could be reasonably estimated somewhere in the range of 3,945 billion dollars. There is, then, a new space that will enter the financial affairs with these changes. I think there is a general agreement among all members of the council that the money that deals with the demands, or stress of stable taxes, will be spent only to pay off the debt of state funds, but that decrease will lead to a loss in debt to the loss of the state's interest. That makes room, and I remind you of that in the previous round. on the subject, I called attention to the tremendous numbers contained in the State budget and how large it is when compared with the European Union's interest costs and how much military cost are compared to the European Union's interest costs. The figures for 2013 that followed the original national budget indicated that Iceland's interest cost was nearly twice as much as GDP compared with Greece, although Greece's debt was twice as high as Iceland. This suggests that we are paying four times higher average interest costs than Greeks. When we have a small country with an independent currency with this high interest level, it requires that we keep the debt of the state's funds to a minimum. It's a priority to lower the debt of state. And there was certainly a physical basis for using property sales to reduce the cost of growth, as a minister of finance made the original claim, but the evidence may not be quite so appropriate today, according to the latest news. I would have wanted to see from the top of the board some policy in this regard. This is particularly important because there is a conflict in the administrative sector over how far to go in sales of financial assets especially, especially those that will likely give the most money that is most likely to be sold by the Bank of the Lands. There, the forwarding party council has taken the policy for the government's long-term ownership of the Bank of Lands. On the other hand, the secretary of finance is headed by the State Department to sell 30%, and he has other prime radios going on at the council to make it easier for him to play that game. It is very interesting to see the majority of the opinions in this regard, since more of the committee is careful to move very carefully past this opinion and to say nothing clearly about it. It also means that, according to the opinion of it now and according to the national budget as it stands today, the PUBs are writing on the sale of the Bank of the Lands Bank on the contrary to the approved New Year's Council. A big question that I think the senators need to answer is: Have any ideas taken away that were essential to the resolution of the Council? Does it no longer apply to members of the Organization, or do members of the Organization think that the government budget is just some general magazine where you can talk about the matter and say that it is going to sell banks that are not really going to sell? I think it would be normal for us to get a clearer view of this and a clearer line on this subject. It is also thought - provoking to watch the employees and reformers. The original estimate is that there will be 2% greater than inflation. If further cuts are taken in public service, and in the national financial programme, according to the President's permission, ◯ with appropriate medical assistance to reduce pay costs such as contracting to staff or working levels, etc. In other words, if the increase in money gain exceeds 2% in public staff, it is announced that there will be a cut down on health services and education systems. The state has just signed tens of the pay raise by doctors. He followed a contract with expert at a 27% rise. These contracts are now available, and nurses have two weeks of work, radioists have had eight weeks of work, and the arguments the State used to justify negotiations with doctors beyond what others received on the market were primarily the need to bring them special benefits because doctors were in a competitive labour market and could get other jobs. They looked for nothing in this country if they couldn't raise their salary. All of this was convincing evidence, but as with me polygrapher at that time, they have in their own way exactly the same with nurses and radiologists. The only difference is that there are women's classes, unlike doctors. People in these classes live in just as open a job market as a mutual recognition of national rights, and it is already very important for nurses to look for jobs in other countries. Just in the last few weeks, nearly 20% of the midwives at the Land Hospital have obtained proof of education and the ability to apply for jobs abroad. We have a very serious position in the labour market for these important and large classes, and I don't think anyone would think that they will eventually be negotiated at about 2% of the minimum business contracts in view of the agreements that have already been made with doctors. This is likely to mean that the government groups have agreed with the budget to commit themselves to surgery in the health system and the education system to meet this level of money gain. You also ask: Is this work being done in education to meet high school teachers in excess of 2% of the inflation that has already been negotiated with them on the same government? I think this pay interview has raised a huge number of questions. Then I have not reached the secondary size which is expected to be a 2% raise in salary over inflation, but a 1% increase in the cost of pensioners over inflation is expected. I also feel that it is part of the government sector and, in the light of the Supreme Court's declarations, the members of the Agency have to answer. Social Affairs Minister this week of operations on the ideals of older citizens and pensioners in general following recent labour contracts. I feel that there is a clear answer from the government council on whether or not they are ready to say only in full terms with this financial program that humans are not trying to secure 300 of your elderly and disability pensioners. K. at the end of the contract time of 2018. Is it really true, then, that people will continue to raise the ideals of older people and poorer ones according to general GDP, where increases will be less than the highest pay rates during this contract period? As a result, the decrease in the lowest salary and improvement in social security will be increasing. It's very harmful. The sense of justice is to try to reach 300 o'clock. K. At the end of the contract period, the amount of money contains some kind of minimum need for improvement. The same could be true of the elderly and the desperate. For the poor, it is impossible for the poor to make more money because it does not have the ability to earn more money. It is true that there are elderly ones who have large compensations from pensions and who enjoy it well, but they also have a number of cases and are growing out of pensioners, who are very poorly paid from pension funds, who enjoy them in small because of their complex and mutual limitations. I would like to see a summary of the number of seniors who earn less than 300 of you. K. I have a feeling it's more than half of a pensioner's population. I'd be surprised if it was less. That group must look forward to enjoying such a position as the common labour market employees for minimal progress. A respectable president. I have not been able to discuss the last aspect of this case, which is the share of the new housing equipment. There are significant government expenditures, but it remains to be further developed. I would have liked to see the leading committee look from the greater part where they try only to strike some meter to see what it will translate in the next three years. I would have thought it was normal. My concern, therefore, is that all of this adds up that I have to say that this does not bode well for the rest of my work at the council for the increase in financial discipline. V.E.G. The secretary of finance has sometimes said that the bill involved in public financial matters is so effective in determining the global economic policy that there is not even a need for money policy in the country. It was only enough to have a legal policy in terms of government matters, and it would be a law on public finances. Just as this plan is a structured plan, so the laws on public financial matters are endless formalities. And if the administrative body is determined to ignore its content, just as he does here, with the intention of agreeing and discussing a plan that does not pass, it does not say good about the rest and gives a tone that it is only natural and logical to associate with these laws at will; it does not necessarily have to respect their material content. That's what I thought was a lot of damage and a lot of neglect. I think it's a key factor for us, and I'm just concerned about the official financial approval of this bill if the government's position in binding formalities is as easy as it seems to be here in the payment of this case. As a result, I feel that there are concerns that we need to address, and as a result, I reiterate wishes to the council members, these two members of the Convention in the audience now, that they are expected to be called into committees. Although it would be only two-page sequels to take into account these key changes in a key situation, it would be a little better than a blow, it would not be just as if we were in a ridiculous theater to accept something that everyone knows is nothing. It's like buying a suit when you're gonna buy a dress. This is just another matter, but we know that it is a real description of the material frame we enjoy. We know that reality is far different from that plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u31	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Páll, the Árnason of Athenians, before the talk. I must agree with the doubts and speculations he made in his case as to how much you can build on this financial program because of the big changes that are about to occur today as a result of both the collective agreements and the prime metastases that have become relevant to the terms of the financial budget and the currency. He reviewed it well, and I liked this comparison with the article on the 2008 budget, that it had been the subject of 1st. ... aboutthelaws. Here, however, we are in the second round. On the Senate resolution, which means it's just your last discussion, it's just the discussion available. Is that not further evidence of why the discussion should be interrupted and the committee calling the matter in to make changes in the committee's opinion and to add new criteria that have been presented during the last days? If it can't be done now, is it not completely correct in my understanding that it will never be done?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u32	A respectable president. Yeah, you're right about what you're talking about. Senator. As I described earlier, the budget was kind of changing from 1 to 2 C.E. budget in the fall of 2008. I remember there's been a change to 3rd. The budget, but bringing the bill to the second, was also delayed. Because people were constantly trying to figure out the facts and take in the necessities of spending and the need to cut down, as well as the need for debt. I honestly don't understand the point of giving up a national financial programme that everyone knows isn't an actual description of the Management Board's plans. The idea is that this plan is some kind of a declaration of where one is headed. For example, it should be able to help investors, foreign countries, to plan for the next year, it should be able to help unions do demands, etc. They'll see who you can't build on it. It's just an empty tar. There's no reason for this. So I think it's silly to take care of it, and I think it would be better to leave it alone and leave it alone. No one's willing to accept something like that. There is also something else that is expected in a national budget. She's supposed to make a commitment to the board of directors. Here, for example, the candidates suggest that the Lands Bank be sold when they are just agreeing to a platoon meeting that it is not to be sold. Which is it? What are they telling the truth when they sign a commission on a budget plan or when they vote for their party council? I don't know. It's totally ridiculous to be doing something like this that nobody knows if anything is behind you.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u33	Madam President. I wholeheartedly agree that it is natural to make suggestions that we cannot know what is behind. Of course, it turns out that the candidates will answer for whether they will sell the item at the Lands Bank or not or if they want it sold. I have no idea, and I would like to be explained by the senators of the Agency. Hv. On the other hand, a senator spoke about the remuneration and the social security issues. V.E.G. The secretary of finance said last night that the improvement in the interests of the state's funds should be gained in the interests of the public. However, considering that this is only expected to increase the improvement in social security by 1% beyond inflation and that it may then be expected that 500 billion will be achieved. decrease in the debt of state funds, can you conclude from this but that disability is not something that other pensioners are not common to the public? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u34	I have to agree with what. Of course, it is very strange that when there is a law in this country that says that the benefits of social security should take into account pay development and the price of development, the government and the administrative sector are only having a clear policy that pensioners should be reduced. It means, of course, that if their financial growth is to be 1% and the other 2%, it is an organized decision to let a pensioner fall back. It won't resist current laws in this country. I then remind you that in early 2009, we agreed on a budget for four - year - old financial gains that kept things really going. On the other hand, she also owed the greater part of her time. We then made a list of tax increases that we were not all willing to take in and cuts that we were not all willing to take, but he owed us the main points, and we passed them on. [[The president calls.]] That's what plans are for, not just saying things that you don't think they're going to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u35	Madam President. I thank the senator for his speech. I think we agree that this is a turning point in itself, even though perhaps we have presented something comparable in the past. It's also important that here is not just some piece of paper for discussion, and people hide behind the fact that there's a plan, I've thought it was the main answers, which has then taken such a stool that it's safe to take it back and discuss it better. It is all right to remember that those who were in charge here during the last term said that when they were trying to get an equation in the state's affairs, the most important thing is to try to change interest rates to the welfare of the state and make sure that the State does not continue to collect debts. It may also be good that we did not go to surgery quickly, i.e. not faster than we did. All I'm worried about is the political force that appears here, and it's about reducing the combination. For one thing, it is on page 18. Thirty-eight in which the target of expansive development is made up of economic management and reduction in the percentages of spending to a particular set of cases. I think it's safe to be very concerned that if we're talking about health systems, education systems, and pensions, we're wondering if there's still a way here to increase the gap between people by improving their income. I don't think it's a future political thing. Because we're always comparing ourselves to the North countries, I'm concerned that we are in comparison with them. I'm asking the senator if he agrees with me that what that shows up and in this document is real, so that there's an increase in the gap between people and not just, as this was being done before, disability and others, but with the direction that appeared here, including. on the tax business.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u36	Madam President. Yes, I agree, of course, that this is not a course that is particularly helpful to me, the course described there. For example, if we compare ourselves with neighboring countries, the cost of health - care programs is much higher in this area than in neighboring countries. Today, there is an election battle in Denmark, where a government, as an agent, continues to promise free health care that people do not have to pay for medical visits, but the government puts up an additional cost of therapy. Many other factors, for example, contain the self - determination of those who render the service in the system. We have very little of this in order to contain that, in itself, doctors and health - care providers themselves define their needs and send out bills. There is much more restrictions in neighboring lands, and perhaps we can learn from this. I think the most significant thing about this government is that it cannot cope with continuing with the most obvious savings in the state system. Of course, unnecessary expenses always need to be held back. We began our journey in the last government to pursue a united state so that our service was not affected but was expanded to the administration, support, and support. This government is multiply to all government institutions. It increases cost and violates small government institutions by conciving them completely randomly about the country. I haven't seen a single practical uniting idea from this government. Of course, it is a remarkable achievement that she simply has no control over the real economy of government. There's the rest of the parish. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u37	Madam President. I thank the senator for his answer, and he may agree on that. I want to turn to something else that I think is a rather big deal in this piece of paper, in the infrastructure, i.e. The investment. It's said here that there should be an unchanged percentage of the domestic product over 1.2% of the budget for this year, and I've only wondered how high it needs to be so that the infrastructure doesn't fall faster than the investment. I'm gonna ask the senator what he thinks in this context. Of course, we know about aging institutions, we know about health care and the road system. There are so many things underneath that need to be worn. I think this ratio has been 4How5% 2005-◯2007, and it is, in fact, considered that there may be a debt exchange in reality by postponing the project so far into the future. The senator doesn't agree with me that this is a major concern. [[The president calls.]] What would the percentage have to be?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u38	A respectable president. I think it's perfectly clear that investment levels are way too low. It is a small achievement of this government to have reached this year's record of failure in the Republic's history, but we managed in the first few years after the crash to set the record on the roads. Sadly, though, I was sorry for all the cuts we had to do in a time that would have been much better at attacking them when they could be built for a small price. The lack of employment and lack of projects were widespread in the construction industry. The problem was that we did not have credit for doing more, but it is inevitable that our investment level would increase. We have neglected maintenance, for example, newly built roads, and this is a very important solution. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u39	Madam President. The basis for this plan is to get sick, as we have seen in many of the talks here and absolutely reason to worry about it. It has also been observed that the accepted side of this program is weaker than expected, and the present government has given up on up to 30 billion. I'd like to hear what we're doing. A senator takes care of that matter. The return of the state funds seems to be only zero for the next four years. Then, the contribution to the Kingdom Fund is actually stopping. It has been observed that the economy began to grow by 2010 and the so - called equation was reached in 2013, or a positive overall equation, and since then the production has increased, which, of course, is positive, has increased by about 10%. Now this seems to be a very slow recovery. The power of the government is selling a lot of money, and the expenditures are dropping compared to gross domestic product, which means that we are less equipped to build up the infrastructure. I just want to hear the Senator's attitude toward these things, whether or not this is concerned about the future state funds and their abilities. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u40	A respectable president. Yes, I have to say that the original government budget was a measure of concern to me when I saw that no payment on the real value in the coming years was expected to only decrease as a percentage of GDP's GDP. It was a serious matter, and when you look at it in relation to the heavy growth rate in the state, you can see that we were in a very difficult situation, and it was not granted that our material creation depended on making a proper payment on these debts. The news of yesterday is a positive element. How important it is that we have an increase in the volume of 3,9,445 billion each year into the state's population, with a long decline in cities resulting from a decrease in debt load! However, there is still room for it to be set aside. For example, will turning down fishing costs be more important, making room for it? Will the priority still be to increase reverse development in the tax system? These are the fundamental questions we will yet have answered on the part of this government. Because of the poor government plan and because it has not been called back in the light of changing circumstances, there is very little guidance to be given. In the case of a real government government government, the government should describe the course of the next year in a national financial program that would be wrapped up in big decisions on taxes and government funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u41	Madam President. In this national budget, private consumption seems to increase and perhaps at the expense of the Memorial. About the change in the income tax system, what do you think? A senator that the changes that have been made or proclaimed today following a collective bargain? Is setting priorities in their efforts, or is making adjustments in behalf of the more successful ones? How does he see it possible to deal with underpayers and middle-temperors in making agreements about a reexamination of the tax system? Does he think it is proper to aim to extort it as foretold or would have been able to meet the views of labor movements across the current tax system? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u42	A respectable president. I think that in the present system, the main views of the labor movement on recovery could have been met for average income groups that are clearly those that enjoy a clear tax change in the government. The problem of the government is that it is trapped in some way that it cannot do anything for underpayers and pensioners on account of it, as the minister of finance would like to climb, that they pay no taxes to the State. An increase in tax-free rates and the development of the idea that there was a debate between the labor movement and the state on variable tax limits could have been a major solution to low-payers and pensioners, and it could have met largely the need for these groups for solutions that have not been answered, either by the collective agreements or by the government's declaration of how they will react to agreements. [[The president calls.]] There are still unsettled people in the garden, older people, and disability pensioners.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u43	Madam President. To be honest, I'm a little surprised that this proposal, this government budget, is still on schedule. I would've thought the handlers of the case, the highest. The secretary of finance or the more part of the budget, would have taken the initiative and any personal requests, either calling the proposal back or more of the financial committee, asking for it back for consideration to the leading committee if men still turned on its payment and there made clear at least and warned about the rest of this program in view of a variety of and clearly altered predestinations. Of course, the two of us need to keep up - to - date, not showing this work more respect or taking more pride in it than that. It is clear to all of us, and it is not difficult to review that some of the key users have been made significant changes since they were first laid out. First, the suggestion itself is very weak and disappointed when it was presented here, as it were, in fact, in terms of budgetary evidence in the fall, that the vision of the future was not ambitious for the survival of the State for the next four years. That certainly makes sense, and when we add some adjustments, some of which may in both directions, there is good reason to pause. I am also convinced that the project for economic management in Iceland during the coming losses is anything but thought to be read in this suggestion, and yet it was dull enough in terms of, for example, that the national financial policy would support the work of the money policy and the role of the Federal Bank on the next losses. She won't. If you are now having a pessimism, or only a reference to experience, you might begin to fear that we were sailing into an old condition where the government matters point to the west and the efforts of the Federal Bank in the East. It is now held out, and data have been displayed for a year and is actually confirmed and recognized by all today that so - called slackness in national society is over, it is won. The land production has now become more real than before collapse and unemployment, and more factors have developed in a positive way over the years. What does it mean in English? That means that beyond the corner there may be expansion, inflation, and even overheating if humans are not careful. This does not seem to me to have any attention in this national budget and, frankly, the government has not been involved in any discussion about our being back in the interest. After continuous growth from the last months of 2010, unemployment and other factors, growing investments, etc. In apartment buildings and hotel buildings, by bringing several medium-sized investments into the economy these losses, and by now it was happily confirmed yesterday that one of them is adding, up to 100 billion investments in Germany during this and the next two years, that is, in this context, the subjects I believe are the ones I consider to be the ones left for management as opposed to reading this suggestion. The Habitat returned this morning in a quarterly edition. This is the land, in effect, 2.9% interest from year to year, i.e. In 2014, in the first quarter of 2015, compared with the first quarter of 2014, the years corrected are actually different and inferior. This is as much as 1.5% since the last quarter of the year. While this need to be kept in mind that economic change is a large and growing supply in the country that reduces the importance of exports, there is still a number of factors in this conclusion of the Habitat that would have been relevant to the Commission's opinion on this matter, such as the fact that import is likely to increase fourfold by export. Product transport increases about four times as much as freight export, of course, again in advance of changes in supply. As a result of the administration of hairy objects and for other reasons, supplies grew in the country during the first quarter of the year. However, these are warning marks, and in the last two, three losss have been removed from the left to zero. If there were no such thing as the great growth of tourism and the vast amount of change left on the service espionage, the commercial balance as a whole would not be much to cry out to. If we then add the news of yesterday and the collective agreements or what might at least be becoming the result of a large part of the general labour market, it is a major change that is being launched in the air to deliver this old strategy, which is likely to be put together in January, February, and perhaps in March, as is the case today. Why, then, do they want it? I would have a clear understanding of that, though I would. The secretary of finance requested that this proposal be called back to the council and promised a more detailed discussion on these matters in the issue of the budget in the fall and as well as on, and what would be of course desirable to be arranged, that a well-recorded Parliamentary resolution proposal for a real budget of four years, with a wide range of key areas would be provided here on time in the next winter, not later than February or beginning of March, so that the Council would have a good time to work with it. If people are going to take this method seriously, fix down the framework, deal with the political issues, whether we are looking at the next four years realistically, for example the needs of the health system, and the changes in national dating, and the like, when we split the cake between lawsuits, we would have much work and in good agreement with the methods that have been prepared and set for the past very many years. Some people may think, and I've only heard during this conversation, that now you don't have to worry about all of this, because it's going to be so much money moving into the Secret Bank and/or state funds because of the needy agreements of the fallen banks that we can take all the silver away. But it is not that simple and the opposite, so if these analyses are correct, that the relaxation in the economy is short during thawing. We see its signs in certain locations, we see real estate bills in certain different parts of Reykjavík, we can't call it anything else, we clearly see a real estate bar in an office house that goes up about 25% per year for two years in a row. What is it but a bubble? That's it. And we need to keep our eyes focused on this because we should ask the critical questions before it is too late. We must never repeat the mistake from the end of the century onward until collapse, that everyone sleeps at some banqueting party and shouts out those who speak warnings and bring legitimate criticism. It was just an overcrowded atmosphere, it was as if it were spoken in a wall when the obvious signs of overheatation and expansion of that time raged. If this is true, we need to be more careful not to mention that we can improve the economy that is going over to the thawing and heating of the extra funds that can be contained conservatively through the corrosion of the old air dwellers. On the contrary. We have to take out every cent we have and more. The real operation of state funds must then be helpful in the balance needed to take place. And that may be the most important project you could have had in mind yesterday, at least Some of them who, expected management. [[The president calls.]] There's a waiting management right now in Iceland
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u44	A respectable president. I'd like to ask you first what. A senator, as a result of what he was referring to the need for this strategy to be re-programed, whether he as our most experienced member of the Parliament here will illustrate that a plan has been adopted at the General Assembly on grounds that cannot be met. Has there been a agreed-in plan that assumes that facts have shown that it cannot stand as if just what has been mentioned in the discussion this afternoon on the announcement from yesterday to the new government housing expenditure? The other question I would like to ask: Does he see an example of a board of directors supporting a plan of this kind that contains a plan that the same board has declared that he does not support? Then I'm referring to the fact that the Special Assembly of the Agency has agreed not to be sold by Iceland's Bank, but in this financial programme, 30% of the stock will be sold at the National Bank. Can he judge another of two of these things, saying that a member of the board has approved a case that he has in a material way given declarations that he does not support elsewhere, at a platoon just a few weeks ago, and on the other hand, a plan is adopted on grounds that are not?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u45	Madam President. On the grounds I'm not sure that I quite remember an example of men, at least Suddenly and without even more defenses at the time and for the visible evidence that the premises are gone, however, they have to resolve matters many weeks and even months later when they have had plenty of time to deal with them. It would be better immediately if a budget or more of it did not more than turn the case around, overlay the committee's opinion, strike the defense, make a advance, and announce a review. The General has seen things and, of course, many of the plans have been like this. We can take transportation plans that have sometimes been what we call very fat in the back. Such optimism has often been indulged, but it is that we are showing something that might become a reality in a future that we do not know what will happen. But here we are talking about the present. We just have it in our hands right now that many of the reasons for this strategy have fallen, even the government's own decisions. Regarding the Congress of advance -- there's damage to the situation. paritaprevir The Meritman's Hafliðason is no longer in the hall - I've been wondering if you can tell me, Madam President, what they were at, in effect, at the forward party council. If you go over what was agreed on, such as not selling the Lands Bank, he has all as a community bank, even though there are plans and songs from the government itself on the contrary, as if there should not be any proposals in the banking system, although it is a matter of granting requests, such as not laying down the Bank County of the State, even though the government commissions are inside of doing so, you begin to wonder what spiritual condition they have been in. It's so contradictory that half of it would be enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u46	A respectable president. Yes, it is a matter of question about the condition of the candidates when they agreed with all these conclusions if they are then going to be behind the political elements available at the council. Psychology sometimes speaks of a reality breach in which a person's view of what is really happening is lost and he convinces himself that the world is quite different from what it really is. Perhaps it is some kind of teaching that has led prominent members of the Synod when they agreed on all these conclusions about everything they did not intend to do, even though there is a matter behind one another that obligates them to do so. They do not move or oppose all of these matters, either with any intention of selling the Lands Bank or with regard to the matter. A senator traced both the petitioning and the subjugation of the state's banking office, which is all the matters they agreed to with a party party vote against, but with great effort, continue to pass through the council. I wanted to ask you why. In view of the fact that the matter is in fact totally formal, without material considerations, what example does he consider to be here? In view of the bill to legalize public finances, which we have both come to in our Ministry Committee to be working on, I have a measure of concern if the administrative body is going to set an example of associating with such light - cut legal requirements for legal discipline. I remind you, the highest. The minister of finance has considered public finance to be such a divine standard that it can replace money policy in the country and any other policy on the part of the government. This does not bode well if the administrative body feels that it is possible to respect the nature of what is left behind. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u47	Madam President. It's just a little bit more about the advance council because it's an honor. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson us with his presence among others, and then president, it shall certainly be accepted - natural enough that the person standing here would not do so as a platoon president for 15 years - that there may be something that can happen at a party meeting. We know many of them. But I have to say exactly as it is, and that is only honestly said, that I can't remember any example of men being so diligent at a platoon party to agree on the rocks and to draw conclusions against themselves. That's what the advance did there. The convention of the candidates agreed to draw conclusions against the forward groups, i.e. The leader class leading this government - or isn't it? - and have been led here by many tops of the board, which are so inferred by the pack. It's called against oneself, and I think the candidates have made a big point of it. [[Up front.]] They may simply have forgotten that they were in the government, and they do so frequently because they are, in fact, still in a position of government since their last term. It is so surprising that progress has not found the way out of the government side during the last term. [[Up front.]] I could offer them help in that regard, for I have changed these roles many times. I've been on what is in control or opposition several times, as we know. Regarding the example of the deliberation of this conclusion. paritaprevir A Árni - old Páll Árnason asks: "Yes, of course, this is seriously the fact that it is a pactal proposal for a state-of-the-aggression program based on a court order. Happily, it does not meet the conditions it is really intended to meet by analysing it into the language field and setting a frame. This is, in effect, some kind of audition, this isn't really real, so I think we'll just do the best to stitch up all the warning that is inevitable and, in fact, have to declare it to the rest of the motion that it was just a drill. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u48	President. Hv. A senator mentioned something that I don't think has been given enough attention. Happily, most economics may encourage optimism about the future, but the fact is, if I can say so, it is not much of a mention that the exchange equations are going into disrepair. Like what? A senator came in if we were in the worst trouble if not that much money from travel. But is it not even more serious because if we trust so much in the tourism program as we do, there is nothing in this financial program that will show someone that it can deliver more money than it has been? The Senator said that he had his ideas on what was the most urgent economic project, and I want to follow these thoughts about asking the senator: " What is the most urgent challenge today?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u49	Madam President. Regarding the product exchange, it is one of these changes that will always be watched because even if they are doing well and we have a good share on the service balance -- which we are, thanks again to the adventurous growth in air transport and tourism - and even if the capital equation is okay, but if the cargo equation has become negative, it is always a concern. It is a product of the spherical product, the stable value creation in manufacturing and export. If you do not have enough access to the import of goods, you need to think about what's going on. This may be explained temporarily by increased import of investment products, raw materials, manufacturing tools and tools and may self-prescription within a good time period. I remember when I had these numbers in, for example, in 2010 and was convinced that my recovery was in place, that was when I saw in the first part of that year and in the middle of the year in the import report that the import of the products was growing, raw materials, production tools and business products. Then I said, "Yes, I am coming, and within three to six months we will see the economy." That's exactly what happened. At that time, the economy was beginning to turn around, and it laid the groundwork for increased wealth. Of course, we need to discern what is involved. However, there is always a time when alarm bells should ring when the good - for - nothing equation is turning into negative numbers. Did you break the projects into economic management? For the sake of my time, I'm going to make sure there's two things I'm doing. I think it's obvious, it's expectation control, a lot used new words, it's trying to control people's feelings somehow. It's always been very dangerous to us Icelanders. It is, in effect, the manner of shepherding when a person raises his finger and says, "It's time for good ones to go. " [[The president calls.]] Everything's going to be all the way back then. The other big project is a disciplined state dweller who supports the National Bank project of holding back inflation and expansion and supporting the money policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u50	President. Both factors. A member of the body points to the suggestion we are here. Another is expectation control. The expectations and what people can expect for the next four years are important. The four - year financial plan must help us all to see this, and the government budget itself is just a ◯i and for a seal; so I'll kill a Danish, respectable president, a tool to administer discipline in terms of government. That's why I've said it many times, and I'm going to say on, that it's such an important tool. That's why I like it very much. In his speech, a senator said that, of course, the best way for the secretary of finance to take back the financial plan. Everyone would understand that. We were all going to understand it here. It's changed so much that it can't resist anymore. She made a good account of her plans when he presented the budget and then a more careful and detailed four - year financial program for the next year. I'd like to ask you if it wasn't the highest. For the most part, the secretary of finance is just for the better of all of us if this happens now and we at government positions commended the secretary of finance and said: "This is how to win things? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u51	Madam President. Yes, I think it would be for everyone. I think a minister of finance would just grow in respect. I think the labour market partners and the market would understand that as well and accept it. They would take it as a sign that they wanted to be careful and responsible, and when faced with a change, they would take over it rather than continue to get it undiscovered as if they were bound for both eyes. If we take it a little bit better with our expected management or message, let's just call it the Icelandic messages that people can read out on this proposal, and this plan may make it more public that it would be a good expectation management to provide a financial plan that does not reveal a great deal of government interest. Investors, for example, should not increase anything; they should simply remain unchanged, which is a very sad message for those who want to do more in road or school and health systems. Only 1.2% of GDP should go to public investments for the next four years. Yes, there are a little more crowns every year if economic growth continues, but there is no real expansion in the sense that we contribute more to this group of paintings. But when you look deeper and deeper into the stitches of this program, it's not a good plan for waiting. It doesn't include good messages. I'll tell myself that if I was just Jón Jónsson out in the community that still had a glimpse of state and economic affairs, I'd like to see a government budget until the next four years, which showed continued improvement in a state fund and progressive change every year. Then I would go home and say, "Good." Fine. I'm fine. It's gonna be okay. The government is to exercise responsible economy in Iceland, and it is to support what obviously lies ahead as a project by the World Bank. But that's not the way it is, unfortunately, since this plan is ruined in many sense, they also feel that it does not send out the right message at all. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u52	V.E.G. President. We'll talk about a state budget plan. I've already been in my first talk and discussed what concerns the welfare issues. In fact, I came in very little if there is nothing to do with the restoration of the Land Hospital and I plan to start this talk in a few words about my frustration that will extend beyond designing the building in the next few years and not begin and try to speed it up as far as possible except at the hospital hotel. I feel that this is unrealistic and that it is my goal to weaken the health system even more. Now I'm going to go into the public budget and maybe the economics and the news-talking economic status. On page 18. 5 of the State budget says, with permission of the President: Then economic stability is also important for the preparation of funding decommissionment measures. What is being done in this national budget is that tax losses further reduce the amount of income they earn. There's been some improvement into the solted system of the state, not enough, and we've criticized it in the discussion that this is an unrealistic plan, there's more to be added into the public system. Since then, the government has issued a declaration of collective agreements, it is to lower taxes further so that the income of the state's funds becomes even smaller, followed by the release of capital waste. It is indeed a cause for joy that I am going to celebrate and congratulate the government, especially the secretary of finance and economic affairs of the Bjarni Benediktsson, who drove the policy of the government, which was marked by the sentence of the problems, and had more conflict with the Supreme Court. Prime Minister on the issue of negotiations or legal routes. Today, you will be tempted to go along the way of negotiation, and as you can see from the reaction, it is a general pleasure. It also means that various aspects of this program need to be considered. The strategy needs to be examined not only based on agreements but also on how to react to the effects of capital emissions. Here's a probationary bill. Of course, we hope that treaties will be reached so that they do not need to be used, but there is a fine report from the Ministry of finance, which refers to a decrease in debt that will be paid on account of the tax. If a contract is reached, it must be done on a so - called dollar clean, and the funds that enter into it will be used with the same objective that is to reduce debt. What a joy it will be to see that the government's interest rate is down to 35 billion! It's nice to remind you that in the United States, we always talked about changing our interest rates, wanting to pay off debts to reduce interest costs, and taking advantage of the differences in education, health, and social services and social security. I hope now the cost of growth is down, hopefully we will succeed together with this action, but it is in no doubt how much these funds will be used. Will they be used for further payment? Will they be used as savings for pension bonds? Will they be used to further increase? Actions such as these have a far - reaching impact on the economy. What is also of great value, and I would like a financial committee to discuss before any legal programme can be adopted, the question is, What debt will be paid off? This means that money moves from a government fund to someone else's. For example, is it the pension fund? Then the pension fund will be stuck with the funds they need to produce. It's money that goes, not directly from government funds into the economy, but through those who loan. Yet, this money goes into the economy. It is very important that we have some picture of the way they're going into the economy so that we can assess the economic impact of this debt, since it may be that the effect will be fraught with the need to change the tax reduction programme. We have previously taken the Independence Party and the forwarding party through a period of expansion where all expectations were run up during the same period of time that was a personal advantage to the banks and that they are adding very much their loans, both to companies and to homes. At that time, Krumma's surgery was being built, and taxes were lowered, allowing the economy to overheat. We all know what happened at last, it ended in collapse, but we should also remember that taxes were reduced so that they destroyed a government fund of income and the need to be here with too much economy to make enough money into the state fund. Madam President. I want a financial committee to look at this. We cannot agree with this plan without reviewing these scenarios. I can't understand that people are ready here to make promises of tax reductions without having been identified the situation as affecting the economy of capital waste. We've come to the President's conference board to request that this case be taken off the program, and it's unrealistic to agree with a plan that's no longer a good deal, if there was something in its initial sense, but let it be. Even if that had been the case, it had changed, and it's a blank piece of paper. Iceland's General Assembly can't agree to a budget that everyone knows is completely unrealistic. I also think that in view of the seven thin years that took place after a serious collapse and in view of the processing that had to take place against the financial system, the currency, businesses, and most of the households, we cannot show irresponsibility to take the economic situation seriously. We need to understand how capital waste will affect the economy, including the collective agreements, and, above all, what expectations are in the air and how they will affect the behavior of investments and consumption. These questions remain unsatisfied, Madam President. The handling of this matter at this time from the Council is completely irresponsible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u53	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Sgt. Ingibjörg of Ingadóttir for his speech and agree with her that I feel completely irresponsible to give up the General Assembly of this budget as it is. Like what? A senator has changed quite a bit during these last days, and everyone should realize that the plan is impossible. All too many uncertainty issues are off. Hv. At the beginning of her talk about her concern for the slow paces presented in this program were the construction plans for Hospitals, as well as the concern of health care in general. I'd like to hear about a vision or an opinion. A candidate in this regard to the policies proposed in the Parliament's decision to expedite development, as stated on page. 38 that the proportion of primarys without irregular joints of gross domestic product should be reduced by 1% and the share should be reduced by 1%, i.e. the actual affairs of the State should be in 2019, only 23.4%. What has a what? A senator on these statistics? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u54	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator resists. As a fellow, I'm not in any doubt at all. I can never support this reduction in the amount of consumption. This is about the community we have together, the health system that is to ensure that all of us have equal access to health care, regardless of our economic and educational systems, which are supposed to be open to all of us regardless of our economic situation. We know that these goals are already threatened. Their homes cover five dozen billion on the table because of health care, medicine, and education. This is a trend that cannot continue. We've got to wind this off. We are to agree on what is considered the normal share of the households at this cost. That's where we're supposed to go. It has to be added, both too little money inside them, and so are the domestic expense departments too high. We astrologers are completely opposed to going even further in financing these systems and moving more and more costs into our homes. It is often more interesting for older people and older ones to rely on health - care providers. It's where we're rolling. In education, we should have a more ambitious view of the future than we want to exclude people from education because they cannot afford it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u55	Madam President. I agree with what. Senator. I must also say that I am very worried about where this policy will lead our welfare system. In a member of the committee's list, I'm sure it's my share of what I'm talking about. The legal committee says that growth in budgets is simply underestimated. These include demographic and built - in systems growth, i.e. the cost of our growth in the number of pensioners in the predictable future as well as the expected increase of the cost of S-mercial products. May it not be said that on the one hand, the part that the State is going to spend on the combination, but at the same time, because of the demographic changes in the composition of the nation, can we just assume an increase in expenses into this category? I'm asking why. A senator will agree with me that when these two are read together and examined together, they will be able to preach only a tremendous weakness in the welfare community we already feel that many are ill, that it will be even weaker if this route is gone. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u56	Madam President. Yeah, it doesn't work out. Now, here's three o'clock. Councilmen from the smaller parts, who have been much more concerned with financial matters, are guided by long - term thinking, and, of course, see what is clear for everyone as this plan sees that the welfare system is about to be reduced. The community we all have is about to be reduced. It is so remarkable that the government does not see this and fear this trend. It is more important to undermine the health and education system than to ensure that we are making more money in the form of the resources and that we are reaching out for growing and valuable articles in the technology and software industry. It takes a good, well-being, educational, and health system to grow into a business. We need a flourishing job life to finance the health and education system. It is an old - fashioned view of valuable things, of employment and overuse, and of old - fashioned criticism that taxes are always better than fostering the society we have together and creating a good society.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u57	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech I thought could have been longer. When I look at this matter, I notice a pattern that has often been referred to here but, in my opinion, not quite enough, a pattern that is very graphic on page. 18 In the suggestion itself, the pattern of the crash has become a large minus in the entire balance of state funds, i.e. the sum of a verse's expenses, and then it begins to improve very quickly and very quickly. Although I sound like a special spokesman for the last government, I have to say that I have always found it unfair when it becomes an economic breakdown, a government that tries to clean up the community, and then is forced away because everyone is unhappy with the situation, but then it accepts a new government that boasts itself of responsibility for the improvement of the state's wealth and economy when it was really realized that it was happening under the evolution of the past years. I see this same pattern here, except for a somewhat interesting exception. If we look at the appeal of the talkers to reduce taxes and to reduce the income of a government fund, we can see that they have often said that they do not reduce the income of a government fund but that they reduce the tax and increase the money they earn. You can't see it in the grave here. You can see that the charges go very down, blessedly, and the income goes up, and then suddenly they go down 2014 and continue to go down or stay pretty even after that. I wonder what's wrong. A senator would have acted that way on his own if it were. A senator would have remained in much more of his time. How would it have been? A senator wanted to see these lines evolve in 2013? I would especially like to ask about the income part but also the part of the pay if any. A senator will get it done.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u58	V.E.G. President. Thank you so much for a very pleasant question. Taxation is not a goal in itself. Tax taxes are supposed to be reasonable, moderate - minded, but they are used to obtain the necessary income and for balance. It had to be followed by the collapse to find new tax companies, and we increased the fishing costs and set up a wealth tax from all the richest individuals. Then I would want to see how we could have managed and even turned the taxes on the most money - rich ones and found ways of doing some adjustments that could have been done in the tax system. We would also want to lower the insurance fee on an enterprise that greatly affects their business and the ability to hire people and such. We had begun adding to the expense gate to improve the systems. You can't see it on this grave, but you can tell how the interest rate slows down. Remunerations came to a high level because of unemployment insurance and various debts we settled down with, but we had come to a good place. Yet, it was obvious that the system had to be replaced. On the contrary, we would have made some tax - system changes, but we would not have increased tax returns, but we would have even reduced them in some ways, not to reduce our expenses, but to make sure that our income remained more than our expenses, as we were getting into 2013 so that we could pay more quickly on debt. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u59	A respectable president. The right man and the left man fight when I think a lot about these matters. What interests me is that, in the long run, people are seeing a considerable change in the wealth of the state. I am a great spokesman for reducing the debt of state funds. I think it's extremely important. I think it's morally questionable that the state owes. I realize there's a lot more discussion than we're going to make, and I just know that there's a grammatical argument against that position. However, I believe that the state is not to be owed and that it is a very big problem that the State owes. It's a manly thing that you often have to say to people when they start to complain about any kind of service they need, or that some service is somehow wrong, and then this problem always comes up, I'll always let me say: lack of money. Now we can see that if you had followed the tomb, whether it had become a government trade or not, the state's budget will be left behind, but it's harder to say there is a need for money. Then I'd like to mention the social security system in particular. I believe that the biggest problem with social security is how complicated it is for clients, users, politicians, employees of insurance and staff around the system and for the local community, but the same way if you look at numbers in other categories, such as foreigners, prisons and personal protection, there are often excessive financial needs, but only with perhaps tens or hundreds of millions, not billions, as we're talking about here. I also wondered, " Is this space not to be used to fix the problems, since it doesn't take much money to fix a lot of things? ' I assure you that any problem associated with a lack of money in foreign affairs could be fixed with a hundred million dollars. [[The president calls.]] They're supposed to be fixed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u60	V.E.G. President. Yeah, I totally agree with what. A senator when he speaks of the importance of not debt too much. Further, the Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir's government was assigned to bring us down from 200 billion degrees with a considerable and difficult cutdown, saying exactly: We have to do this because we have to change things in our well - being. We cannot continue to do this, since the interest costs will be so high in the financial expenses and income will go into it. I'm also going to remind the council that it's a party. A member of Congress, Pirata's Party, had a survey that included a unanimous harmony with the nation, basically no matter what variables you viewed, that there should be a health tax priority. Studies have also shown that people in general, a greater number of people, especially the rich, and it's true, they want an equation. Why do people want to be equal? What exactly is desirable for a community? Why Is Equal to Good? Of course, it is good for the individuals involved, especially those in the lower income pocket, but it results in better health, more opportunities, and may be able to give more to society. This leads to a safe community and leads to a decrease in the number of budgets, spending teams, which, for example, are dealing with in prisons or other countries when it comes to law enforcement and warfare. It is desirable and desirable, and it also pays in economic terms. That's the petition.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u61	A respectable president. Comments on this terms of the fiscal budget of the year 2016-2019 indicate that the government's actions in recent years have greatly lost its support to the commercial growth of the public. First, there are measures due to the domestic debt problems that have severely reduced housing debt and a small amount of payment. There have also been reductions in taxes and social security benefits. The range has occurred at the same time to increase contributions to important issues, such as education and health care. The change in government housing policy aims to support better the income - poor families and to strengthen the position of the first buyers. The aim of improving Kingdom funds in the years ahead is to further improve the country's standard of living to a shorter and longer time. This will be best done by continuing to build up society's infrastructure, strengthening the health and welfare system, and also reducing individual and business restrictions. In order to do so, a great debt of the Kingdom will have to be unwinded and the weight of the interest will be reduced, as far as possible. Among other things, it will be in a memorable way, with its prime projections, which will be expected to be discussed here tomorrow. The cost of growth will decrease, and the result will improve so that more space will be made up, tax doctors, and precautionary measures in terms of government management, which will be used to balance the economy when necessary. However, it is important to maintain the government's expenses and gradually pay off debts that were left over in the same way that they were established by sliding. This budget therefore puts a policy on a gradual, steady recovery of the state funds so that land management will become at least 1% of GDP in 2018 and will continue to grow on a similar scale during the final year of the programme. This budget is based on the state's investment as a percentage of land production remains unchanged, but there are 1.2% budgets for 2015. This means that there will be any scope for making major and profitable projects, both because new projects replace specific projects that will be completed during the period and because investment contributions will be increased in order to keep up with the growth of land production. This includes the task of completing a new clinic and design at the treatment center of a new Land Hospital, whose building will soon be offered. The contribution to transport investments and to science, research and technology development is increasing. At that time, the government's policy in the government's budget is to continue to reduce the breakdown of the tax system while taxation reduces home and employment. A further reduction in insurance and customs is expected. In addition to a positive effect on prices, long-term production is expected from decomposition of tolls. There will continue to be plans for the reduction and change in income taxes and income taxation of individuals. Then there is the fact that the current government has worked to simplify the tax system, make it more efficient, and lower tax rates. Then there are the major changes to this state in the time of that government: General goods have been taken away, and thus consumption control of about 800 products has been discontinued. One subject has been reduced, the middle stage decreased from 25.8% to 25.3%, and the lower limit of normal increased. Insurance costs will decrease from 7.59% to 7.35% up to 2016. The cost tax system has been modified, so the top level is 24% and the lower level 11%. Financial taxes have been reduced from 6.75 percent to 5.5%, radio costs have been dropped, and funding levels have been increased from 100 levels. K. of 125 up. K. Not to be overlooked, however, is the use of special property to reduce the housing bar to name just a few. The 2016/219 issue of the budget is based on Iceland's Labour Office on the economic outlook taken at the beginning of March 2015. Forecasts of continuous economic growth over a projection period, which will decrease from 4% this year to about 2.5% in 2019, the current decade will be one of the longest economic growth periods in modern economic history. These favourable criteria focus on this strategy, particularly the income side, and must therefore be warned about the uncertainty of the progress in assessing the objectives of the budget, particularly when it is due in recent years. If the growth of national spending is less than predicted, real - life growth is likely to be less and more difficult to follow up on plans for improvement in the economy. On the other hand, national interest forecasting will provide ideal circumstances to cover debt and reduce interest costs, one of the main interests of government management. With a decrease in debt and interest rate now being realized by new prime projections that we will discuss here tomorrow, there will be more room for state funds when it comes to the next economic downturn or downturn. Thus, in this economic situation, emissions of capital syrup are being worked and the first steps were taken by the presentation of the primary projections yesterday. It is of importance that the success and maintenance of economic stability will be achieved and that there will be reasonable social expectations. As the delinquency process progresses, the need to update the long - term budget of state funds according to the impacts of delinquency is to have on the state funds, such as changing interest rates and debt status. The progress of collective agreements is one of the main uncertainty and risk factors in the Icelandic economy at the present time, and therefore it is crucial that the level of prices not be solved. Otherwise, a reevaluation of the basis of the strategy will be required and may, among other things, affect the government's ability to act on both the income or the remuneration aspects of the programme. This may therefore affect tax, investment, and other activities, such as housing. At the same time, stability in the economy is important for the preparation of funding decommissioning measures. Inflation has rarely been as small as last year. It has been prepared for the price of the National Bank since January 2014. The introduction of inflation has been low, and there have been some European countries who have suffered inflation. The reduction in oil prices is one of the major factors, but oil prices have been reduced by half since the previous summer. Increased shelter prices have kept the inflation up here on the country's past losses. The Habitat now predicts that inflation will be 1.4% this year, but in the next year it will be near the head of the Federal Bank, i.e. 2.5%. The results of collective agreements over the next few weeks and months will, of course, be of great concern to the development of inflation. For the next few years, the economist has predicted a 5% raise in pay. During the past 20 years, the pay level has increased by an average of 6.7% per year. The economist is predicting continued progress in the workforce. The reported unemployment rate was 3.6% in 2014, but was highest in 8% after the fall of banks. The economist predicts that unemployment will drop by 3% this year and that it will remain the same. This dramatic decline in unemployment is made clear in the cost of employment insurance. His expenditures have decreased by less than 60% from the highest between 2009 and 2012. If we take together the main objective of this conference resolution on the budget of the budget, they will be as follows: The levels of government funds progressively improved over the period and the waste will be at least 1% of GDP in 2018. The growth of GDP from 2015 up to 2019 is not increased beyond the growth of GDP. The GDP is growing more slowly than GDP and slightly slower than the source income and reduces by 1% of GDP from 2015 to 2019. The gross debt of state funds drops by 10% to a name value and reduces about 15% as a proportion of GDP from 2015 to the end of 2019. We, in the greater part of the budget, agree that in this programme, despite the presence of positive signs in all major sectors of the budget, there are important uncertainties. The results of the existing collective agreements are particularly significant. Other things can also be considered, such as the possibility of economic failure, the demand for more money in our business countries, etc. So there are some unknowns. In fact, the expected differences in delinquency may have a positive effect on the level of debt and clearly on interest costs as observed, which will probably decrease substantially but are not expected on the basis of these factors. This program shows that the cumulative interest rate of the state's budget from a bank collapse at the price of 2015 is about 580 billion dollars. and therefore it is urgent to sell stocks in financial companies and other partners, as well as not reimburse a portion of the debt-finished currency, but to reimburse other financial loans with more favorable interest than is now being done. In terms of financial assets, I guess something needs to be revised in the light of the latest events, and I expect it to be done. This will strengthen the state's position against economic rhythms, as well as reduce the rate of interest, thus increasing space, including to build up and face the rising cost of aging and pension commitment. Next year, it is planned that total income A-part State Fund will total a total of 682 billion dollars. and the cost of 671 billion. Thus, the total balance will be positive at 11 billion K, i.e. of about 0.5% of national product. A greater proportion of the legal committee believe that the next year's management plans are being followed and that the basis for the 2016 budget is based on this national financial programme. We, on the greater part of the legal committee, suggest that from now on there will be a step further exchange of fee frames, not only changing according to economic change, but also per Ministry and their lawsuits, and then the plan will take on the next five years instead of the four years. These changes are in line with Article 5. A bill to legalize public financial matters that deals with financial programmes. Here this morning, some of us have a problem. Councilmen took a silent note and discussed this resolution with regard to the latest reports of financial capitals, discussed that the assumptions have changed much with the worker's projections, and as such, this synonym is actually unremarkable. I don't agree with it on the whole, I think that the most extensive part of this pact is what he is. True, there are new reasons for certain issues that I think need to be considered. Of course, we should send out a plan that is in line with the latest news and information. We do not know how the plant affects national interests precisely in every respect. Such calculations are not available, so it is difficult to make a big change in this proposal in view of the times we received yesterday, to discuss here, and to go through committees and so on. I don't think we can make a major change in the Senate arrangement here in a subsequent year. it was based on all available data when submitted. I only came into the sale of property which men have also discussed this morning. I believe it must be revised in view of the latest reports on the interest rate of a state fund that will likely reduce much from what has been meant and take place there by hundreds of billions. Remembering less for the state funds so that the stock of the state's funds will improve considerably, i.e. We have the money to put into other positive things. Hv. paritaprevir This morning, Árnason also mentioned the elderly and desperate. I just want to say about those groups that it's very important to make a significant improvement in their status from what is now. It has been very early in my field of interest to improve their benefits. Whether or not they get 300 yards. K. as a minimum wage, I'm not going to say anything about anything, but I can repeat, as I have done many times, that we have to do much more for these groups. It should be the priority of this government, the two years that remain of its time of work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u62	Madam President. Hv. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson had many sessions in his talk, but I'm going to use the minute I have here to discuss it just to the point. A senator went through his case to believe that the major part of this synonym is still in progress, but he says that there may be something to consider. Of course, it may first mention the new bills of yesterday's stability taxes, financial companies, as well as housing improvements. But this is the only discussion that remains on the subject. You may not be expected to make a significant change in the suggestion itself, but you may wonder. A senator suggests that the committee will take the matter to heart and make the leading committee an opinion that will try to shed light on what was presented here yesterday? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u63	Thank you. A senator for this question. I would say that if I was running a business today and that information would be presented before I had finished my budget, I would probably review it as I could, i.e. add to it. At least I think there is good reason to discuss the matter on the committee, to discuss whether or not to do so. I'm not gonna rule it out right now. The effect of the action being carried out, the action being performed, is only to a small extent possible, so there is always a question of how much can be done, but I feel that there is good reason for the members of the committee to review the case and see if there is any reason to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u64	Madam President. I thank the senator for the answer and his positiveness in my inquiry. So at the same time, I'm pointing to what. A senator must have his hands a little faster, for there may be six left on the rosary, and that is the end of the case. If any action is to be made, prompt action is needed. I got it. I got it. A senator until good works. But because of it. A senator also came into his speech to see that he wanted to improve the situation of the elderly and the desperate, I would like to ask him why. A senator whether he disagrees with the objectives set out in the Congress concluded that the level of disability that is expected here should be less than that of a general labour market. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agrees with what it says, or does he feel that this need to be changed? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u65	Thank you. A senator of these questions. It seems to me that the list of people who want to talk here is rapidly increasing, so it may not be one, two, three in the discussion. I just want to say that there's a lot more to do for these groups. I don't know if it's possible to make minimum wage for disability 300 of you. K. To be honest with you, I don't really think we should go up to that amount. However, I want to do so much better with these groups than I already have. Neither should we overlook the fact that in the coming decades, there will be an enormous increase in numbers, especially if we look to the elderly. If we're going to go up to that amount you're talking about, maybe 300 you're talking about. A.J., the government's cost would be huge. It's just something we have to face. [[The president calls.]] On the other hand, of course, we should do as well as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u66	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. As we have discussed here, this experience is more experienced than an overview of what may happen in the future. Whatever the case, it's too much here. For example, here is a chapter called a tax policy. So this is a policy coming from the beginning of April, and it is suggested that insurance be dropped every year for the next four years. The government's action on the tax business is described as not likely to be reduced by the insurance system; however, there should be major measures to reduce income taxes, not just about 6 billion, as expected here, but even about one 11 billion. It's 16 billion actually in the headline, I don't know exactly what the difference between the two is, I haven't really studied it in detail. And in the programme it also goes into the percentage fraction for the implementation of this income tax change. [[The president calls.]] What does it say? A senator of that? After two months of careful direction, could this be a course?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u67	Thank you. paritaprevir Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir's spirit for this. The nature of the situation according to this plan in the future. In a sense, plans ahead are predicting what will happen to our economy. There are plans based on predictions. That is exactly what she is doing when she says it is based on a forecast. That's it. The best predictors of what will happen and then plan for it. What we are supposed to do in our financial affairs is what the public financial bill is about, that people look ahead, and that they prophesy about what they want to see in the future. This document is based on the best available information at a time when the panel is put together. That's the best thing a man can do, but, of course, such a document always changes. There's gonna be some changes. It's accepted things, something happens in the business, something in society, thus overthrowing some of the factors of such a suggestion. [[The president calls.]] That is the case, and there is very little we can do about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u68	A respectable president. I don't completely agree with that. Prediction is one thing, but we must base our plans and goals on the forecasts that exist. We don't want any fortune - teller, we don't have anything to do with it. All we can do is look at Haguen and the Secret Bank and all the fortune - tellers. We want a heading. I find it interesting that two months ago, when it comes down to it, there are certain tax policies, e.g. income taxes, but two months later they've changed their policy. It has nothing to do with predicting, just changing course. They planned to cut down the insurance fee every year for the next four years, stating that it is not expected that there would be room for ablation, as has been considered. I think it's evidence that they don't know exactly where they're headed. That's not good. That is why we have severely criticized this document and felt it was some kind of preparatory attempt to make some conquistancy proposal for a fiscal budget that is not good enough. That's what I'm talking about. A senator wouldn't agree with me on that?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u69	Thank you. A senator again. The policy on the insurance bill is clear, that it should be lowered. It's been quite in the past and has been overlooked many times by the rulers of the government. What we have is based on the best available numbers from the Haust Room or other sources at the point when this document was submitted. Follow-up changes cannot be predicted. But you're right about what you're talking about. A senator says that such changes are not to take place soon after men put together such a piece of paper. That's where I completely agree with what. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u70	A respectable president. At the beginning of his talk, it was said. In some way, a member of the state's budget was aimed at promoting a government policy as a means of education and good health. Then, at the end of his talk, he said that he would like to do something more than he is today. Now, all of this is for all of this part of the combination, and according to this national budget, the share of consumption is to decrease as a percentage of national product. It's supposed to be down in the four years. [[The president calls.]] How can this be compatible with the intention and will of the senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u71	Thank you. A senator for this inquiry. The present government has made significant contributions to health and education. We're in a hurry. The reduction in the number of years of co-administration does not tell us very much because there is a transfer between classes and those within the combination. We emphasize the most important things about health, education systems, etc. The priorities of this government have been correct. The next few years are likely to have more money left over, so we can add even more to this series of lawsuits. That's what we're looking for. This is not to say that the overall consumption of the combination is to be increased. It's a different arm.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u72	A respectable president. According to this document we have here for discussion, the consumption of the combination is not to be increased, it is to be drawn together. It must be so, then, that if they are to strengthen these things, they should draw together in other ways. Okay, well, I'll take it as they say, but then you'll miss that this plan doesn't run any more than it does, and then everybody agrees that the plan is taking its first steps and getting ready in that respect. Then I'd like to ask the senator how he feels about selling the National Bank, which is in the program. At the end of his talk, he goes on to say that interest payments are likely to drop out of measures involving the oceans and that is why there will be some money and a reexamination of ideas about selling state property. That's what I'm talking about. A senator saying that he is like his party members at the advance party convention against the Land Bank's sale? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u73	Thank you. A senator for this question. I reiterate what I said before, I believe a reimbursement of plans for the sale of state banks needs to be said. I believe the need for such things is not as great today as it was before. I think people need to take this discussion within the governments and find out about the need, whether it's the best way for us or not. The decision of the Continental Assembly in this matter rests entirely, and that is the policy of the whole party. Then we will see the final outcome in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u74	Madam President. Hv. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson noted that he felt that the matter would be reexamined in a good way. If the case were called after a return to the committee, it would not be the stupidest thing in the world. Now I am an emissary officer on a financial committee, and I do not have the authority to demand that the matter be addressed to a committee, so I ask the senator if he is prepared to send a formal hearing or a request that the matter be called back to the committee. That's naturally followed by everything we've mentioned here. This case does not seem to be especially successful. It's done with a hanging hand. You've heard government officials that they're testing, this is the first time, etc., but it's a national financial program, and it's actually the council saying that the government is working on the basis of the nobility in this document. Yet, these conditions are not particularly well within the years. It's full of ideas. [[The president calls.]] I ask the senator if he will be formally called after the hearing is accepted.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u75	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry. I think this case was as successful as it could have been on the basis of what lay ahead when this council arrangement came into existence. I think maybe there's nothing very much to complain about. However, I can answer his direct question in a way that makes it right for me to discuss this with other members of the committee in the future. Thereafter, a decision will likely be made thereafter. I don't know who she's gonna be, but I think there's a good reason to discuss it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u76	Madam President. The matter was not well - worked when it arrived at the council. It is twice spoken of as a currency head, and in the same sentence, a capital master is once spoken of. They're capitalists. The late bank has agreed that this is a capital capital, not a currency capital. V.E.G. The Minister of Bjarni son of Benediktsson has been standing here in a speech chair saying, "No, it's not a currency chief, it's a capitalist. That's how it comes from the Ministry. I can slip over it, just have these grounds, and can say, "No, it's not a currency head, it's wrong to say a case here. It's not a well-worked case. Besides, there's nothing especially good in the language either. It is said that all years of work is done about something being done. You're going to charge everybody years with something. This is not a well-worked case from the Ministry, first of all. Second, there is one meeting for a committee to discuss the matter. The guest meeting that's meeting number two, the State Review and the Habitat. There could have been more visitors. The apartment loan fund, which is a large uncertainty factor in the household's Habitat Association, which will be judged to be legally implemented in all the financial loans provided by the Substitute Bank, he has 70% of them, but still there's an apartment loan fund at the meeting in another case, but he's not already included in this case. [[The president calls.]] No, this case has not been well established in the Committee, and the committee should consider it better.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u77	Madam President. Before we continue our program here today, I'd like to ask the President how to handle such a synonym that we're discussing here when it becomes clear that most numbers published in it and a number of major reasons under those numbers have changed. What is the value of this synonym if we agree with it, and how does it bind the project? I'm asking the highest. President on this because I don't fully understand what the Commission will do if we agree to this document. Then I'd like to ask the president if there was a chairman hearing to discuss the end of a council that is needed now that a work plan is no longer in effect.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u78	The President will be looking for answers to any questions. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u79	President. I like what you're doing. paritaprevir Mr. Oddný Harðardóttir to ask for the end of the council. We were told yesterday that there would be a meeting today to discuss the end of the council, and as we all know, a work plan is long removed, so we need to know. I also think that the President needs to think seriously about it because as the wind unfolds in this discussion here, we see that the basic heads of the budget have changed. We're discussing the government budget for four years. I'm not calling for a new plan, but I call out that at least the matter will be called in to the budget so that at least a new committee will come from a greater part of that committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u80	Madam President. I agree with the people here who have been asking what is going to happen with the council officers and what is being heard about the discussions about the end of the council. I think it's very important for us to be able to organize our work, not just today, but in the days to come. Then I'd also like to say that I think deeply about what this discussion is about on the program. It will be very clear that the matter needs to be changed. This is the last discussion we have to discuss, so it is now or never that the committee will continue to consider. You wonder how you should interpret words. The þm of Karl Gardar. [[The president calls.]] Do we have to put ourselves on the rosary so that he can finish thinking how he's going to bring up the case with his own committee?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u81	Madam President. It has been observed in the case of people here today and, as it were yesterday, that people wonder why this matter is not called back into trouble. The legal committee to review it better because more than a portion of the legal committee suggests that the Council's decision to accept it remains the same. It's almost unfair, as if I'm looking at it. People are also wondering what it takes to call a concierge proposal for future applications. into a committee. I'd like the President to tell us what has to happen here. Is it enough for one member of the committee to request it, as with the bills, or do the more part itself need to bring the case into the committee? I'd like to ask the President to answer that question.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u82	Madam President. I think we need the highest. In order to find the answer to the question, What basis does this interpretation bind a minister who must enforce it? The Parliamentary proposal says, as it is. paritaprevir Oddný Harðardóttir noted, according to a certain Article of Congress, that the government is following government policy on terms of financial matters by 2016-52019. And it goes on a little lower: ▪ On the basis of the prerogatives established by the government budget. In what way and to what extent is a minister bound if the Council approves this decree? We don't know. Then I think it's important that a minister himself explain to us whether he just thinks he's bound by a plan that's not better won than this or whether he's just going to follow it blindly, a plan that's not done better than this, whether from the Ministry or from the Committee. She did not have a review, there was not a talk with all the parties who clearly are defined as uncertainty in this. [[The president calls.]] This is not a well-worked case. Is there a minister bound? He'll have to come back and answer that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u83	A respectable president. I agree that there is good reason to try to determine a number of terms related to this matter in these days, a national budget, what it means, and whether it needs to be revised in the light of the latest news. If this plan does not need to be revised in view of the latest events, does it have any meaning? Why, then, is it being approved, and why is it submitted? These are some of the big questions I think it would be good for the committee to face, perhaps along with a minister. Also, I agree that it is very strange that the officers'meeting on the end of Congress has not yet been announced long after a protocol has failed. There's something in the summer and maybe all the more reason to point out. It's only seven weeks before another assembly is due to begin if we expect a legal vacation of five weeks. It's just not that long enough, so you might want to consider going to a meeting and trying to visualize it somehow. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u84	Madam President. According to this proposal and in accordance with the terms of the synonyms, this should be at the limit of the policy to be followed by the Commission. The changes in circumstances and circumstances that are obvious in the matter have been raised, and even government officials have acknowledged in a mixed manner. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson, who at least opened the way for consideration to be worth the application of the financial committee. There's a problem that we haven't seen anything of the highest. The secretary of finance during the discussion, as well as the president of the legal committee, has done little. Hv. The chairman of the budget board, Vigdís Hauksdóttir, is abroad on leave, and a deputy is on her behalf, and the vice president of the legal committee, why. paritaprevir Gullish Þór Þórðarson, has been seen here from time to time. We have not had much response or answer to them in my opinion of the legitimate indications that it would at least be wise to call the matter into a committee, if not just to call the proposal back. [[The president calls.]] So I'd like to point out that the next thing is a good deal from a financial and business committee, which would be a good idea.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u85	President. Maybe it's because I'm here right now that this time I'm only a few days away that somehow I'm in my heart some cheap at the time of the Generalist, and I'd like to see it most useful. This issue is thus growing that when it was presented, there were a number of reasons for it to be very small. What has happened since April 1 is so clear that there is nothing left of the case itself and the joyous events that really happened this weekend were actually going on with the rest of this. The only purpose left to discuss this document is to discuss the general political line in it, i.e. General political discussions, but they live with other members of the council, including the U.S. ... fora kitchenday. To accomplish their purpose, representatives of all political elements must participate in them so that I recommend that the president consider this matter. I have another errand with a president I am coming to in my second speech, which I hereby order. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u86	A respectable president. I've often said that I think it's interesting that we're discussing a four-year financial program. I think it's so important that we get closer to what's going to be involved in dealing with the government's resources with respect and all the serious things we need to get hold of them. That's why I still seriously say that it was the very least that the committee brought the matter back in so that a new committee's opinion would lie that there was something in reality. On the other hand, it would be best, and I'd adopt an idea earlier today that the case would simply be called back and a new plan for the next four years would be early in 2016. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u87	Madam President. I think it would be very responsible for the Council President who is now in contact with the U.S. President who sits all equal and actually has caused him to see if it was not right to take this matter off course. It can be put back on the schedule later, put off the program now, and proceed to the next one. There are many perplexing reasons why we take this matter back into the committee. It wasn't a well-worked member of the Committee, it wasn't a story. This interpretation proposal is proposed by a minister on the basis of Congress. It says that the minister who brings the government's income should submit to the Council no later than April 1, every suggestion for Congress, etc. In part, it says that the committee can look for information from other committees. It wasn't done. There was not even a search for the comments of the parties defined as uncertainty issues in the case, such as collective agreements, not even the labour market party. The commitments of the government's Penitentiary Fund, not his deputies. A camp loan fund twice named as an uncertainty factor, not even though it was with the committee on the same day that the case was discussed. State funds, economic losses, tourism, fishing routes, representatives were not called before the committee. [[The president calls.]] It would be responsible for a president to end this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u88	President. Another factor that caught my attention earlier while I was sitting in my office was their conversation. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson's son, and I'm reminded of Valgerður Bjarnadóttir's daughter at the moment. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson said that the policy behind this program is to promote health care, other welfare services, and education. This surprised me very much because I've tried to look this suggestion a little bit, and I got quite another conclusion, that it could not be read out of this proposal but that there must be a recession in these two great areas because the basic demands of the state go there. Hence, if a person is going to cut either in real or in proportion in the State but to cut it down, that is impossible. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u89	Madam President. I don't think it's excessive that it would be wise to reimburse this proposal and leave it to the board at least a different committee opinion. It's a better idea than to continue this in the council for discussion under the circumstances of which we members of the government stand have been traced here considerably. It was only a matter of question. paritaprevir The son of Garðarsson earlier protested that, of course, here are large covariates worth considering. Of course it isn't talking about recording the entire program, I would not suggest at least, but there are important things we need on the budget at least and, of course, a body of Congress is going to know what the effects are on both the collective agreements and the initial procedure on emissions that were presented yesterday. These are all too large for us to pass through this new political presentation in a way that seems to be meant to be done here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u90	A respectable president. As already discussed in the President's conference board, this case is somewhat strangely increasing and has become more peculiar with the latest positive reports of planned emissions. It's like this document, a national financial plan, that you don't really know exactly what you're supposed to think. It took me a while to wonder if I should be talking about it. What is that? I think this is at best, as indicated in the Committee's section of the budget, is some kind of clever, possibly first plan of some fiscal budget. I feel like these steps were made to me, so here is a very rigid basis for the Economic Standards economy when she was well introduced to a Economic and Business Committee. It appeared to me right away, and it hasn't changed, that it was just an economic plan, and it was baptized in a government budget. I think it's a fundamental problem of understanding what to do. We're out of policy here. There is no need to tell a nation what to do, where the emphasis is, where the key elements are, what the economics will change with planned measures, etc. There is also a framework for the disintegrating spending on the money they are supposed to be, not in place. You can have a clear understanding that this is the first time this program is submitted at this time as it should be done. For one thing, it's good that we succeeded, but it has to be done better. I don't think that should be an example for the financial programs we want to see in the future. Also, you can have a complete understanding that some things, and especially these times in the recent Icelandic history, depend, of course, on uncertainty and uncertainty. Exploitation of the affected or the first step in decommissionation, or whatever we call the actions introduced yesterday, of course, was not in hand and is not yet in hand that it will all work together, although the drawing is positive. I have a clear understanding that this can be and has been dependent on a lot of uncertainty, and maybe a responsibility is to put such things directly into the financial program. As in that case, some sort of fund may develop in the accounts of the Federal Bank of page 5,500,800 billion. It has always been known that this kind of space is somewhere, but it has been debated over what such a fund is new, and what is justified in using it according to economic views. Of course, it's just the same money that went around 2005 and put everything next to it, and we don't want that money doing the same thing again. It would have been possible to put in the government budget abduction of this, and if not, more of the legal committee might have been able to suggest that such a large case could have a slight impact on key economics, perhaps on the state's debt status, and so on. It's missing. There are so many of these missing things that make this document not a thing, I'm afraid, but it has to be said. This may be as much and as good as the Economics. She's fine, of course. They try to analyze how things look right now, based on current conditions, but a national budget is to be more than that. The actions that have been announced to me as a case are very obvious examples of anything that men could quite foresee would be wise to put in the committee's opinion that it would have affected me, in fact, that it is so news that there is every reason to call it back into the committee or to simply cancel it and to admit that the basis of this government plan is completely smiling. If this is how the execution succeeds, I'd like to say, in this responsible manner, because there's an offer for a deal with the demands we have made in a short future, under the impulse of the stability tax, it seems to be the way to go and will solve the oceans. This fund is then made up of Icelandic dollars, on credit accounts, or a special account upstairs in Iceland's Secret Bank. It's quite important, and I would say that it should be discussed under the hat of a government budget, if she's supposed to mean anything, how to deal with that kind of money. I understand, and I know that it is in the mind of a planned government legislature that such a money is so used. Here, people say, and it seems blessed to be an agreement, that they will not view this money as some election fee for the 2017 elections but that they will go to pay off public debt. It's not a simple matter, though. It's not a simple matter to pay off public debt at once. This can also mean that money just goes into the economy. Somewhere in the other end, there are people who own this bond, and no matter how debt is paid up, it doesn't matter. If too large a foreign commitment is paid up at one time, it will affect the way things are done, so that there are a number of savings to this for a good purpose, I think, to pay off public debt. I have to talk about how it's done, and I feel bad about being here discussing a financial plan in the context of this latest news, and there's no discussion about it. How is this possible? How can such a picture be envisioned? It's amazing to hear that a financial committee was discussing a budget without calling a guest. And why didn't the Economic and Business Committee talk about this, too? At this point, for example, it would be very good to hear from those who have to do with how the State's debt is paid down and how it can be done during these years with the money that is possible for them. Perhaps we should also discuss whether the money that may be taken out could be used to handle the enormous problems displayed in the State's Penitentiary. This would have to be discussed. And I don't exactly know why we're discussing a national budget if these things aren't being discussed. And this is just one of the uncertainty factors. There are so many other things, including. the impact of collective contracts. I think we have to face it at this point that the collective agreements will not be within the range that is being set out in a national financial programme. It seems to me that there's a more massive bargain than any man has ever hoped for from the emphasis on government affairs. Does that not mean that it should be taken into account with a financial program? In many ways, the projects related to this new post are not covered by emissions, tax reductions associated with collective agreements, and tolls associated with collective agreements, fine language alone, massive dressbacks due to collective agreements, housing measures, e.g. A building of social apartments on top of a great rise in the construction industry? They're building for tourists in hotels and accommodations. There is also an apartment that is being built here and there. It is possible to be activated, even if it was only Aggressive, that is what the Commission on Use and Protection has agreed to. All of this above is very much the debt corrections of the government, which we in a bright future protested, must require that we discuss with considerable depth below the national budget of how we're going to prevent overexploitation in Iceland and how we're going to prevent this game from coming from coming from 2005, which ended in 2008, repeated. This is to be discussed with this team. This is to be discussed in this schedule. I don't see a realistic or interesting introduction to them in this program. There's nothing there about government investments, I can't believe this plan when it comes to investments. In effect, public investments do not come back. It just means decay, which means that roads and houses will drop down, that means if your investment doesn't show up. This is surprising to me, and I can't take this seriously because I think it's quite accepted that after the crash it had to be combined in very important investments, in the interiors of society, in the road system. For example, all I need to do is look at transport plans for the past few years to see that there's very little money in maintenance roads. For example, it needs to be given in a nursing facility. We need to build a powerful system of communication, ports being damaged, and so forth. There is a great need for investment in the interiors and one very large investment, which has been discussed here, and I don't know better than that a state of political accordion, is to build a new hospital and rebuild their buildings. In the budget, this will only be seen to a limited extent. Yes, there's money in the design, and money goes to a hospital - but isn't it supposed to be building a hospital? This budget is very easy to achieve when it comes to making simply an account of investments in the infrastructure, which even has already been approved in this room. I don't realize what's behind it. There's a plan for public investment to become a small space for new, unscrupulous projects. Are we really in that place with the government's budget that we cannot predict in just a little more detail what investments we will make over the next five years? Is that not possible? What does that mean, what is the blame for our work here, and how we approach government funds? The majority cannot even enter the national budget of things that have been agreed here to do, let alone be able to enter the fiscal programme of things as if the need for maintenance of the road and building of roads, for example. I can't really take this plan seriously when it comes to this and other things. There is no mention of an apartment loan fund, although any knowledge that has been given to an apartment loan fund at a committee that will be needed, that will be a problem, and that has been a problem. How to Deal With It It is a problem with the magnitude of his life that he will influence government matters if they push it ahead. I've mentioned pension bonds. Is this what you're gonna do with the S-marked drug trade as it has been? When it comes to buying new drugs, we have been drawn back from other nations very much. We're beginning to compare ourselves with a highly repetitious standard. Will we keep it that way? This is a major cost force, and it's about to show off the cards, show the political policy. We need to know, I would say that there was a case that would have to be brought into the budget. What should the tax system be like? Are we going to cut down an insurance bill or not? Are we going to take one step on a merit tax? People at times proclaim it, but it does not take place in the budget. What do you mean? The house - to - house reform system all together, are they going to make these mortgages at the same cost or not? Shall we believe in the highest. Social and housing minister or not? What Should We Believe? Why isn't this part of the budget? Uneven teams are very large in this program. Of course, they are always few, but they are unusually large to my knowledge. There are also all kinds of exciting plans and plans that are going on within companies owned by the government, such as land activation. Dwelling, in fact, proclaimed a significant period of time in an effort to gain more money from the energy sold by land induction. This is a course that we should take in the bright future, thinking that it should take a great deal of determination. We're already delighted to hear it. During the days of energy resources, a minister proclaimed that the interest of the resources we are selling must be increased and placed in some sort of fund to support infrastructure development, increase stability, and be a reserve in difficult times. Good idea, but why isn't she here? Why isn't she in the budget until the end of the five? It's the highest. Secretary of finance just something to care for and think out loud? Isn't this something that needs to have its way into plans so that they can have some meaning, although only the change in direction that Land induction has proclaimed about a huge increase in income money? Then I miss that in this financial and economic program, there's nothing to discuss with the currency. You don't want to discuss your policy with the currency. They now say it's really good that we have the crown because otherwise we would never have been able to free the currency heads. It's incredibly paradox to me. We would never have had that currency head and that problem if we hadn't had the buck, so, yes, the dollar is used to solve the problem we had received. That's just the way it is. I find this news about the survival of the plague as positive as it is, very aggressive questions arise as to where the future currency arrangements will be made. While we solve a problem that involves the property of the farms and the deprices, the need for the public, the need for the pension fund, the need for companies to bind their money to another currency other than the Icelandic to invest abroad. The threat we had to face in 2005 remains, although we have not done it well enough, i.e. will drop the budget if interest is raised here. There's always that danger. How are we going to make sure that we don't go back to the same stool? I think that in a state-of-the-art programme, people should tell you how they're going to have the basic fees as well. I'd like to remind you on this occasion that a bright future has twice presented a conquistador proposal to shape currency policy. In any case, it would be something that we should agree to, while discussing a national budget here, we should agree with a political decree that the government regularly introduces its plans for the currency with defined objectives. I'd like to say that there's one of many large puzzles missing into the fact that this budget can in some way translate something.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u91	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for a fine speech. Hv. A senator reviewed the value of this program and how little it really matters, and I agree completely with it. In view of the fact that it is difficult for a senator to visualize how to use this program. Certainly, it is not in harmony with the discussion of greater discipline and better plans, long and short - term, as discussed in the official financial bill. However, there are some political issues in this conference. Hv. A senator represents a bright future on a financial and business committee, and it's about paying taxes in the budget and the policy there. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the Parliament feels that he is expected to cut down the insurance fee, but the agreement made with collective agreements withdraws. Got it. A senator's request would not be dropped, and it would work out to the employees in which the insurance bill is taken from each employee? I'm asking why. A senator how he feels about it. Second, I'd like to ask if there's been a discussion in the Economic and Business Committee that taxation on vehicle and fuel should be changed immediately in 2016. I know why. What kind of change should be made? Did the Committee discuss how to reexamine the valuable tax system in order to strengthen it? It is also discussed in the program.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u92	A respectable president. I don't know where this works with taxes on fuel and all of it. I have not heard of it, and with the respect of the tax system, there was an excellent result in the Commission when the last battle was taken over the transition to the level of merit taxation, that there should be time in it and go to review all sorts of ideas about, for example, one of values tax systems and that the committee would be included in the work that has been presented as a consultation process carried out in the Ministry on a review of the worthless tax system. I agree with a number of existing goals, that the merit of the tax system should be primarily a income system, not a income balance system, and that the income tax system is more for income balance, but it is most recently reported that we have not heard of this work. It's just that you're in a complete fog with where you're headed. With the insurance bill, I find something interesting. I find it very interesting that the government has not gone to lower the insurance fee after it had to be raised very quickly because of increasing unemployment in the wake of the collapse. However, the insurance bill has not dropped with a decline in unemployment, and the government has decided to use the insurance fee to another income supply but was actually agreed on. Among other things, they include running into unemployment insurance and other related factors. I think this is going to appear as a result of a workforce, and then it's actually the labour market that defines what the tax system changes are supposed to do. [[The president calls.]] They may not necessarily know how to be as reasonable as the reduction in the insurance bill, so I think we're just experiencing some random policy on tax issues, lack of policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u93	Madam President. Today is June 9, and the budget is due to be submitted on the second Tuesday of September. If I know the job correctly in the Ministry of finance, all the major accounts have been closed and the big decisions have been made on the big lines, even though we are discussing a national financial program designed to build up for those decisions. If there is to be any change in vehicle taxation and fuel and value taxation during 2016, they have been made decisions and clearly that the Economic and Business Committee should not be involved. Hv. A senator said that the credit system might not be so good as to be in terms of the community, but it would be better to use the income tax system to do so. However, the government budget clearly shows that the tax system should be simplified and downstepd, so to speak, to weaken the income balance role of the tax system. The government policy adopted in this program, which was submitted on April 1, is then set up for those in a fight and suggested that it had been negotiated with a simple tax system for the labor movement. I'm asking why. A senator will see how he feels about this position and whether he feels it is enough to do it. Large groups are still on strike. Counts 'em out. A senator that what the government did as an intervention for the release of collective agreements is enough and sufficient for other conflicts or that further action needs to be taken?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u94	A respectable president. No, I don't think it's enough. There is natural evidence that there is not enough to show that there is still a very hard fight in the country. The League of college students is still in a very tight-hitting dispute with the state. For the sake of the government, I have felt very lacking in understanding that what the government does matters. I think, for example, that the income elements of the government's income bills by Christmas have been very bad in the leading of collective contracts, where it was decided to reduce unemployment rates without consultation with the workforce, continue to betray the employment remuneration fund on a contractable contribution, and so has the feedingoral funds been in a considerable confusion, I feel, and is on the verge of fulfilling their role. That's what I think affects the fight we're in right now. I think we'd need to see some kind of plan for the restoration of the stock of birth orcs to speak profusely into the group that is now in a strike. There would also need to be a subject of Icelandic students on the table, the payment rate of student loans, and so on. I think it would affect the group involved in a strike today, including everything involved in housing and less payment on housing as well as everything involved in the loan market. I'd like to let you know that anything involved with currency was a good idea too, in the hearts of these groups. I think there are a lot of things, and not just the tax system. I think the reduction of insurance costs would also have a good effect on this group because it's the equivalent of a company's position to get into business because it's a tax that's equal to every company. [[The president calls.]] It would be a good introduction too, so I think there's a lot of things the government could do to clear up the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u95	Madam President. Hv. One senator mentioned some of the weaknesses of this suggestion and discussed them from the big picture. I deeply agree with that approach, and I was in a similar area myself in a talk earlier today. Then it is also true that there is a problem with this matter that the Economic and Business Committee was not in any way called to the table. However, it is the committee that works in general on economic, business, and legislation in that area, of course, with full respect for a financial committee. Well, things have changed now, like a whale. A senator came in, and you wonder if these items had not been the wisest to have been given to a financial committee and a business committee, which would have been given visitors in one common session over a few hours, and went over these items, to the Secret Bank, to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and to the Hauspium, to those who could most possibly give some impression of how these assumptions are developing. There are so many things in this regard. Hv. A senator gave the big issue whether to approach the responsibility of the funds that may come through the fixed agreements into the Pentateuch Bank and, of course, is huge. Basically, there is one or two, that the first taxes will probably be used to carry the posts of the cost of debt. It has passed, and the money paid off, but the income continued to be made by bank tax. Then there's a bond at the Huns Bank. But what if there are hundreds of billions of dollars left behind? Many economists would likely suggest that they be spent, put in the canker, not just careful not to drive directly but simply to reduce the amount of money in traffic because it is too much. These are huge cases that would have to be anywhere in place and space to discuss. I wholeheartedly agree that this is what this suggestion would have to do with something or a real proposal that was significant. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u96	A respectable president. I couldn't agree with you more. I find it very strange that a financial and business committee has not got anything to do with this government budget. I think maybe the government budget is supposed to be a cover-up in the years to come, and it's some kind of budget support, even though it was just a big picture, but in considerable larger detail than it is published. I would have thought that the work that has been done at this point in the Ministry of finance, about how the big lines are in the budget of the coming years, should be in this issue of the budget, and that would be a reason for the case to be made to a financial committee. However, the Economic and Business Committee has other discussions, national forecasts and so on. It's really nothing but a little bit of a misunderstanding about how this is supposed to be. Besides, I find it extremely urgent to discuss how to handle the money that will be followed by negotiations with the demanding workers enter the Secret Bank. It must be understood that there is a powerful economic argument that simply shreds this money, destroys it. That's a very strong argument because it's really the same money and put it all on the side of 2005. They can do it again, we're getting back the large amount of money that went into their traffic, with perhaps quite simplicity. I find reasonable reasons where it is claimed that this can be used to pay off the debt of state funds. [[The president calls.]] But it's not simple either. It needs to be done according to some plan. You can't pay off foreign debt in a single winter, it's just a matter of fact, so I give a obvious example, so you have to talk about it. Why are people not discussing this in a national financial programme?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u97	Madam President. Of course, it is clear that the prerequisite for budgetary action. This has not been the case with Oddný Harðardóttir, former secretary of finance. The financial bill must have to change or be doing it these days. There are funding this year that will be largely in scope, I predict. However, the government has already decided a number of extra funds, and it will have to be there, if at any time she negotiates with government employees, significant remunerations, and needs financial resources to do so. Maybe a bit divided, but I think it's more likely that the budgets of the next year and then the budgets of the next year will be significantly changed from what they thought when they made this proposal in February, March of the Ministry of finance. It is a reality that faces us, and nothing should be awkward to admit. It's like this. It's not critical of the highest. A financial minister or so, even if they discuss this, it's just the reality, it's the situation. Why, then, do they not in some way demonstrate awareness? In fact, I think the changes are much larger, I think the projects that are facing in Iceland's economic management have taken fundamental changes in the past few months, in addition to what the analysts once talked about, that the relaxation in the country's society was being severed and this would be getting out of the way of excitement. So big things have happened that the economic project ahead is something else. The more important it is to establish a solid basis for this. It is far worse for this government budget because it does not support, it gives no support to the Federal Bank to hold back inflation and rather bramble or cool the economy than the other if it is in the uplifting process. All of this would have had to be discussed. If the council runs out in the next few days and they don't think it's time, all right, then this proposal should be resumed and a new assessment of it is due in the budgetary bill in the fall. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u98	A respectable president. I also agree to face the fact that this attempt to comply with the law and to present a financial program that supports the budget that spring failed. It didn't work, but it was about trying. So you can wonder why this has failed. I think it's very critical how the budget has been worked in this country for decades, I don't know. I'm just a senator, and it's always another day of Congress in the fall that you get something to watch the cards, get to see what the budget looks like, and what these sizes are. It's not even then, on the budget bill, that the government tells how this is going to end. Then there's some poker in the council that ends up in the final budget. I believe that the idea of introducing a single-bit national budget that spring is an attempt to get out of this, try to have more of the council, and have the lines clear enough not to get everything in the face on the second day of Congress. Unfortunately, it hasn't worked, and it's kind of surrealistic how badly it's done when you look over the stage right now. I mean, it's totally premeditated in the past few months with collective contracts, decommissioned and offered proposals for housing that you don't know whether it's real or not, and so on, down the streets. [[The president calls.]] It's very little.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u99	A respectable president. I'd like to see the President after the chairman's meeting for the end of the council. Yesterday, at a meeting of the council groups, the latter part was to announce such a meeting. We've been doing Congress well, we've discussed a national financial program, and we've shown that there's a clear misapprehension of the situation, but we haven't got anything to hear about the proposed meeting of presidents for the end of the council. I want to make clear what I have concluded about this morning's work that it is very important to make special use of this release-and-profile plan that is responsible for more in the council, that the same responsible for more things I think now may sit down and build some conclusion in the Senate that this time is all well pleasing to the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u100	President has requested answers to ask why. A senator and a what. paritaprevir It's a Oddný new Harðardóttir, expecting answers to come.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u101	Madam President. I thank the President for coming to our questions. How important it is that these matters have landed and that the atmosphere of emissions is new to solve other matters! It is totally unacceptable that we are here and the only date that we know the date of the end of this council is the beginning of the next assembly. V.E.G. Of course, the president sees that it doesn't work out either way. Councilmen, members of the council. How important it is, then, that the preeminents be called in and these matters are brought into the good spirit that is now around the big drama!
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u102	Madam President. I thank you for the answers to the highest. The president has given them instructions on when the committee would be in position to have a meeting with the heads of the classes. Actually, I think it's a little strange that we asked a few of the highest ones. About a few minutes ago, a half-hour or so ago, and since the answers weren't available at that point, you suspect that this meeting was just not prepared, i.e. that the first time we asked, the answer was not prepared and it cannot be explained. I certainly hope that I am wrong in this regard, for I think that to keep the good spirit that has existed over the past few days, it is very important that things begin to become clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u103	Madam President. I had a request to the highest level. President. I went to the staff and, of course, decided, as everyone knows, the committee can bring the matter to its senses, but the form in which the president can refer it to the committee; he can decide to do so. At the same time, a committee may call for a case, and a greater proportion of the committee will have to agree with it. The only thing that the lesser part can do in this matter is to send a petition to the chairman of the budget committee for the meeting of the committee and discuss the suggestions of the smaller section that the committee should discuss the matter. Then it's under the votes and the majority of the objects are the speeches. It's the least part of the committee. The members of Oddný Harðardóttir, Bjarkey Gunnarsdóttir, and Brynhildur Pétursdóttir, have sent an invitation to the committee, and I support it as an officer for the committee's reinstatement. I think it would be very responsible for the President to be authorized from the Council President to refer the case to a committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u104	Madam President. To be honest, I'm beginning to be a little surprised at the silence of the government camp here at the council. Yesterday, in the president's office, a congregation meeting was held, and it reported that a meeting of the presidents would be announced, probably between the two classes. One and two today. So one would have expected a meeting party sometime this morning. However, there must be some misunderstanding about the coming meeting or that it was sent to some other group of noncommittee at the General because of a noncommittee. I can't believe that men won't take advantage of the leeway that has developed here in the Senate to settle matters and to put aside their differences and negotiate for the end of the council. That must be imminent with the important matters that we are about to take up in the coming days.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u105	A respectable president. I'd like to agree with this. I was here in the gym yesterday when we called out that the current financial program would be referred to a committee. We believe it has become a holed hole in it that, in fact, there will never be a theoretical possibility of following it. After the conversions that have taken place, in connection with the basics and also with collective agreements, this budget cannot be adhered to. We have offered that the committee take it back into consideration, and people try to fill the holes in it. At the same time, we were told yesterday that a meeting would be announced with the leaders of all political parties today and that the big picture of the situation would be reviewed here. We accepted it, but it doesn't bother us at any such meeting. I think we need some answers on how people are going to proceed here with the Senate work. At least it is necessary to announce when the meeting that was announced from the president's seat yesterday will be held.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u106	A respectable president. I'm going to express my frustration that this meeting has not yet been announced with the presidents of the classes that were supposed to be today. I can't believe that government leaders are going to continue with that bulldog-and-russ movement -- I don't know what to call it -- which they've been showing here with this council lately. Yesterday, they were able to bring up one of the biggest cases that have ever occurred. The Senate rejoiced over everything, and we say, " Why not continue that way? ' Why is it not a new song, that spirit, to continue together and complete this assembly instead of beginning to thaw out? The only thing that these humans seem to be naturally inclined to do is spores.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u107	Madam President. Yesterday was a big day, and I think that the responsible majority of the council agree on the results; it has been observed with a discussion on emissions being here today that the process of negotiation was gone. A lower proportion of the council feels that this was the second or third option, and it is good to conclude that this conclusion came about. I'd like to appeal to this same major section here at the council; to make a decision to complete Congress, to keep 74 cases on list as any key point and to attempt to reach a good conclusion about dates and agreements. I would like to encourage people to use the present good atmosphere, disappear from 74 cases; that the more responsible things read together that the council maintain dignity at this end of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u108	Madam President. The President has been appointed here during the council, and I would like the president to interrupt this meeting to make sure that it is for us why. Councilmen how it is stated that a meeting of the presidents with the president is not yet being made, as discussed, with the president of the United States yesterday. How is it that the meeting has not yet been invited? What message is being given by not keeping the meeting, by not calling together the directors of the board to review and land it? What goes on to avoid the good atmosphere here yesterday in order to resolve disagreements about the end of the council?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u109	Madam President. Again and again, I would like to take in an encouragement to the president to look into the situation and get information about what has been announced or did not announce a meeting with the officers of the clans. I also want to take this opportunity to thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson for explaining to us what the Senate has to say on how to refer matters back to a committee. I think it's very necessary to either the highest. The president or majority of the Committee calls for the case again to make the committee opinion so that the news that has been reported since yesterday may be expressed in a Senate document. However, I do not consider it necessary to postpone a meeting during this time. We can do the next business, which is a income tax, and continue to be in Congress while the committee is finishing its work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u110	Madam President. In general, regarding the situation here, it is obvious that the president and the greater part feel that we have all the time. This has been repeated in their focus, their treatment of programs, and other items, in recent days, and in the last two to three weeks. All right. Well, that's just the way it is. Then we just have all the time in the world, and I'm not gonna fuck around at work. True, I have to admit that I'm pretty heavy if all July went to a meeting without a stand. I had thought of doing something else, partly at least, in July. But let's say. Then it'll just be what it is. But this is in the hands of the President and the rest. I'm simply drawing attention to the way things are directed that it is as if we have all the time in the world. However, regarding the subject presented here, there has been very strong material evidence that there should be an alternative treatment, that the committee should be reviewed, reviewed, and then reexamined with the leading committee. In effect, it is humiliating to continue discussing this suggestion of what is absolutely smiling.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u111	The president can inform us that a meeting is planned with the presidents of the classes later today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u112	A respectable president. The last time today is just not enough. We were told yesterday that this would be the afternoon, and now it's the second part of the day, and I don't know when people are going to report to this meeting. Since the work programme has been out, no new plans have been set, none. They have not even wanted to discuss putting up a new meeting table or anything like that so that they can figure out how we're going to finish things here. The President and the State Department believe it is acceptable that the council is reassigned to a handmade language, a language so holes in it that it will be embarrassing to the secretary of finance when it is approved. It will be embarrassing to have a national financial program that cannot be realized, never because it is so pierced and because it has been hatched since it was submitted. It won't be any more embarrassing than this situation. This is so embarrassing for the government, it's so embarrassing for President that half would be enough. Why don't you go ahead and announce this meeting and set up a work and meeting plan, i.e. if they're going to continue this summer?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u113	Madam President. The government's situation is delayed, but we have become very much tired of setting government priorities and putting matters first that people know need to be settled. Tomorrow's program is a large and large issue of great solidarity, so it is a minimum requirement that we get a conclusion today as to the issues involved. It is not by itself and will never be 74 cases, or God may know who the number has become, let it pass through here. Every sane man who has some sans for these things should know that. We are ready to sit down and set priorities, as is the case when it is time for people to do so. Now it's time. We will not hold that in silence if it is not to be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u114	A respectable president. It is unacceptable that now, when the clock is short for four, it is said that there is a meeting later today. For ordinary people, it is later today, but it cannot be assumed that those who are in control are like normal people. Still, I wish I were. I'd be glad if the men responsible for the government of the country and the important things here could tell us when this meeting will be held.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u115	V.E.G. President. May 29th. the session was canceled, that day the council should have been delayed. Today is June 8th. We can rejoice, though, at the height. Secretary of finance has managed to turn off the highest. Prime Minister, get a plan through. How long should we wait to reach the highest level? Does the prime minister prefer to meet with other presidents of the political party here at the council and review how the council can be completed in the next few days? We try some to plan ahead and have some things on the schedule. Of course, the Senate work would take place, but it would simplify your life if you could get a clearer picture of how you can plan your time and change the commitments you had made in harmony with the council program.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u116	V.E.G. President. There has been a request that this matter be canceled simply because it is basically ruined if we can put it that way. Both are due to the fact that many of the budget's budget has been very surprising to the management team; I have previously noted that I don't think directors realize that it would be the policy of this government to four years of age to raise the pay of a pensioner half as much as any other member of the state. There's a large bill on housing benefits being provided, and it's very important that it's done. But what's going on here at the council - and I think it would be the most honest thing if they just accepted it and therefore interrupted a meeting - is that the issues that are stuck in are tied up because of a conflict between the government parties. It's not because there's a disagreement with the government, there's a disagreement between the government parties. They must then simply take the time they need to settle them so that they themselves know what they will do during this council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u117	Madam President. I agree that this national budget will be retracted or retrospected according to the massive failure it has made. It's a good set and it's supposed to be a tool we can work with. A budget is a box of income and expenses for every government for the next four years, and we are to respect it. When such obvious failures have been made to a financial committee to reexamine it, and to offer subsequent opinions that have led to the changes on conditions that have taken place. I'd like to call on the sensors who are in the greater part here at council, e.g. A member of the forward party, sitting here smiling at me, pointing it to his own men to try to solve these matters. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that today is not June 8th, but June 9th, so time runs away from us.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u118	V.E.G. President. I agree with what. paritaprevir Magnúsdóttir Electric Rafney and other members of the council who have requested this matter to be taken on the program, for all the proposed grounds are completely smiling. I've never wondered how the President calls the heads of political parties to a meeting. I had somehow imagined that a president who is highly respected as the senior head of the legislature would let the officers know they needed a meeting, and then some way that happened. Now it seems that the two chairmans, the chairmans, do not respect the wishes of a president. So I'd like to ask for the highest. The President contacted the good people's department, receive their program, and order them at time as soon as possible when both of them are available. I suppose there must be some time today. They will not work 24 hours a day, they will not be able to do so; that the president will make the issue very firm to take them out to meet him.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u119	Madam President. I have to agree with the people here discussing the President's conference board, and as has been said in the many talks and objections, the matter has become quite distorted, to say the least, in the light of what has been presented here. Of the action the government has proclaimed, it is quite clear that the plan will not be held. I thought it was a nice conversation that took place here earlier, as if, of course, that it's desirable to a financial and business committee and a financial committee meeting. I don't think a financial committee will put anything on it or have to worry about it. I think that's just the best part. These are the committees dealing with the income and the overall context, so it is desirable for them to have at least one meeting together, both in these matters and perhaps in the autumn as well as in those messages. I repeat what happened earlier, the memory has requested that the secretary of finance come to a meeting of the Department of Funds, which has been announced at 2 p.m. 8 a.m. and review these matters with us, how he feels this will affect the budget as well as the current budget year and the next. I don't think it's impossible, except to accept it. If the minister cannot arrive in the morning, we still wish to discuss this at the meeting and perhaps consider the next steps. I just want to come into the housing bill that was submitted here yesterday. In this context and in the context of the State's budget, this is in accordance with 1 of the government's declaration on housing. There is no part of the book The Secret of God's Word. 3 The title "System Support " to a public tenet covering the way to apply it. Then there is a 14 - page financial cost plan, which is almost as large as the bill, so vast. In other words, the expense of the bill is not well - off. This raises the questions: Is this really a matter to be handled, discussed, and handled, or is it to be put forth simply for display? I think it is very important, considering that this financial programme is not expected and that considering the current cost bill, it is, in fact, absolutely irresponsible not to show how it should be financed. By permission of the president, I would like to give a witness on page 18. 51: 1. However, as mentioned earlier, there is no detailed analysis in the bill's report of the magnitude of the difference between the existing housing system and the growth reform system and the range of the bill to cover the new housing reform system. This is an example of how I feel about the Ministry of finance talking about this bill. On page 18. 58 says that the State's gross expenditure is expected to increase by about 2 billion and to be about 6.6 billion. This is an increase of approximately 46% annually based on rent payment in 2014. Then, with the permission of the president, it says: In addition to the State's increased expenditures for housing reform, the Ministry of Health has set out a loose plan to cover the implementation of general rent payments from rural to state with the need for eight new positions in the [King's Department], as compared to the need for a speculative work programme in relation to each reformal application. It is reported that this increase in cost counts about 80 million a year and then 20 million each year. K. alone expenses next year. At that time, the increase in cost has been around 6.7 billion because of the bill. It also says that the funding of the housing system has not been addressed and is not addressed in this bill how to pay to the rural Surgeon Fund in connection with the improvements. There are 4.5 billion in the budget of this year, and further said, by permission of a president: It is inevitable that these measures will be resolved by consultation with the local council and negotiations before the bill is submitted and taken into account at the General Assembly so as to know how they will be brought to completion, which would otherwise remain unsatisfactory. I've put in a bill here and, of course, it's not a dead end. If the highest. The social and housing minister will be planning this bill for a discussion and payment at this council, it's quite safe to explain how to finance it. As I say, it is not addressed in this budget, and it is even stated on page 5. 58 and 59 that this is not expected in a national budget. The removal of the state's funds could be lower than that, much less. 2 billion may be used for other things except for the other expenses I listed earlier. It says here that if this bill is adopted as it happens here and there will be no counter-improvement action against this, i.e. Reduce other expenditures, that just means cuts. Where, then, is the main location? Well, then it must be in the welfare system. That's the biggest thing in the world. At least it would have to be reasoned if it should be done elsewhere or if any additional taxes were to be laid on. That's what they say in this expense account. I think the minimum is low. The secretary of finance will know if he thinks it is possible for him to handle this housing bill. You see, it is also as if I quoted earlier about the balance fund that a bill has to be submitted to change the law on farms to reduce the growth of government funds. It hasn't been done and it doesn't look like it's gonna happen. What's remarkable about all of this is that it says, by permission of the President: Third, analysis of new housing improvements suggests that more rent pay will be relatively increased as household income increases. This is what we have said much in the government opposition but has been considerably blown up, especially by the candidates but also by the lips of some independents. So says: ▪ It cannot be seen that this outcome would be in line with the goal of the bill to increase support for individual and family memory. This bill receives a complete drop score from the financial sector of the secretary of finance, and it is shocking in itself that it is not here whether it is a bill that is actually to be taken in or not, in view of the fact that here we are dealing with government policy to the year 2019 in a financial programme as this has been foretold. The fact that there is no analysis of how this government budget affects individual communities or those who are supposed to be valuables in the community is also of interest to this national budget. It's a huge case, reminding you of the government debt bill that has not yet responded in a way to different rural areas, different ideals, or by age groups, etc. There was a waiting, and a financial minister was going to report in May, which has not yet arrived, and about the day he spoke of the possibility that he would not be able to transport it until after tax returns. There they went into action without knowing what the consequences would be only to a very small degree. I don't think it's disrespectful to both the bill that the Minister of Social Services puts in place, as well as to the national financial programme which is needed and to make a good contribution. Although I'd wanted to see her here with the scenes too, it's not good that we're here discussing a plan that can be made to make changes, at least in the form of a committee, and that we're doing it with some serious stuff, but not just because it's in Congress law that it can be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u120	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. There are a few things that wrap up for me in this government budget and I believe it was very refreshingly pierced before new crew contracts were made. We still don't know what will happen if we take in the uncertainty of what failed government labour agreements are in, and then again, with the influence of the employment bill. Before that time, though, I felt that there was a substantial uncertainty and considerable gap in this Senate arrangement, as noted in a minority list. There is one particular issue that bothers me in all of this, and it is that a greater proportion of the legal committee decided to accept the matter unchanged, especially in view of the fact that here the figures and claims are not quite complete, since an increase of about 2% is expected in the favor of public employees, i.e. 1% above prices, it is reported that 1% in the Social Security System beyond prices, they are expected to increase in prices in the range of 2.53/42.7%, and this is then assumed to result in an overall increase of 1% in the joint and in the setting of 1%. All of this adds up is much more than the 1.2% spent in expenses between 2016 and 2017, as shown in this synonym. I find it shocking that this should be agreed with a government budget without answering this big question: How will people achieve to meet the above and then again that there will be only an increase of 1.2% between the years? [[The president calls.]] Does that not mean that during those years, a person will cut back on his national expenses lightly?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u121	Mr. President. Yes, that's exactly what it means. That may be what we need to understand. I introduced the chairman of the legal committee, depending on whether she would be responsible to submit in the way that is being done here. I am very sorry that the vice president of the budget committee is always pushing back to the rosary in place of being here and realizing if he thinks it is wise to take the plan now and for a discussion of the Committee, to get an explanation as we have requested, to make up only if the committee opinion is updated so that we are clearly aware of the effect of these changes. To be honest, I don't really know what you're talking about. It's just right up from the bill. It is not an independent opinion on the part of the Committee or anything suggested. There is more to come about with regard to the pay, since we have not already negotiated with our employees, government employees. Clearly, what has been offered is not enough, so these conditions do not all stick together. Besides, the Senator mentioned the social insurance, of course, this is a violation of the law. This refers to 1% instead of the price-separation that is expected by law, so I don't think it would be wise to do this in this way. That would be the best. Pronunciation minister if he just said: Okay, this was an experiment, but now we're facing a change before we accept it so that we can make changes instead of putting up with a document that doesn't control anything and doesn't support anything.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u122	A respectable president. What I'd like to say is that the synopsis proposal says: Inflation is expected to occur in the range of 2.53/4.2.7% between 2016 and 20219. Then it goes down: This means that there will be an increase of approximately 2% in the public staff, i.e. that there will be no more than 2% annual average gain over inflation. Later, says: As you can see, 1% of the total real-time real-life is expected by most of the state's business groups. That's how I could keep going. These are words that do not match the estimated budget increase with only 1.2% increase in expenses. I ask: " What were the men who put this up and put up with a budget without making any changes or giving any explanation to try to fool people or not to know more? Didn't they check the numbers? Didn't they work it out? I can't figure it out, and I think it's gonna be a financial minister who's gonna be cut off if we agree with the plan, as easily as it is. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u123	Mr. President. I'm saying it's shocking to accept something that we know won't work out. I asked the secretary of finance exactly when these 2% were responsible for only such a small increase in pay, since it was known that it was not enough and that some other measures would be needed. True, it can be reasoned that it is not good to put a heavenly number into place, so we are making a deal with ourselves, but it was quite clear that it is not anything we can expect to think of. Then we're already creating a schedule that doesn't either. What are such plans worth? We've said that part of government business is not better than it is because we Icelanders aren't very good at planning. This is not meant by the leading legal committee to suggest that this will be passed on to the unknown not to plagiarism.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u124	Mr. President. Now we've got a what? A senator is more experienced in Congress than I am, and he is a regular member of a budget board, where I am an officer. I've been watching how this case has been handled and what its process was like when it entered the council. This came into the assembly on April 1, like 6 mgr. 25. Parliamentary agreements state that a minister should order this before the council. It also states that the committee that receives the case, a financial committee, can refer to the case or refer to other committees that are specifically discussed. I'm asking the senator if it's right that it hasn't been done. I didn't follow up on this case at the Committee where I have an audience. On April 1, but not until April 13, the matter is first addressed and offered to members of the Ministry of finance. A month later, the matter is solved by the committee without much of the other part wanting to make any adjustments. The treatment of speech is slightly abnormal. When it comes to committees, it is generally arranged for an authority officer and the case to be handled, how to work on the committee. Among other things, it is in a review process as soon as possible, but it is not even discussed until 13 days later, almost two weeks later. Then there was a meeting with visitors on April 15 and these were the only guests to appear before the committee. I'm right, I just had a state reexamination and Iceland's Haggis. So it wasn't until May 6, when the Subcommittee's Substitute Fund came up and discussed monitoring of the B and E components, but later at that meeting, a national financial programme was discussed. The camp loan fund, one of the big uncertainty factors involved, was not called for in this regard. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask you what. A member of the Parliament on this procedure, which is said to be most abnormal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u125	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. It is true that, as he said, the case took place on April 1. In fact, although the budget was not included until 13 days later, or 12 days later, on April 13, it had not been measured. It may not be unusual for you to do so unless you have a very large case and think you have to work at it, so it is done to the approval of the committees. However, this was scheduled without us, at least in the smaller section, we'd be asking if we thought it'd be all right. The two parties as well as the rest of them. A senator then mentioned what he could do two days later, a government accountant, and the Haguen, discussed the matter from his side. We requested that the committee's committee be given this matter under consideration, since this is a bit of a blow to things to come, wrapped in the parties, and, of course, the policy on all matters of which the government stands. What may be interesting is that this case had very little discussion, and I'm not sure that people really realized what kind of song was discussed, given the short term of the discussion. I remember the case being taken out on May 6, but I'm reminded of it. There were no additional mountains, and no more visitors or anything like that. I just reiterate that it's just a matter that at least a financial committee and a financial and business committee should work together, have one meeting where guests are coming and going over the basics of it. Both of these committees come to the important aspects of financial affairs, so this matter was not properly discussed and discussed in the committees of the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u126	Mr. President. You always learn something new. This is true, the case that is presented on April 1 is not in the past. of the Assembly Hall until April 22th. That's what's going to happen. This synopsis states: Council figures out, cr. 6 mg. 25. track No. 55/1991, of the General Assembly, that the government follows state-of-the-aggressary policy... And in the council, that's exactly what it says, with the permission of a president: ▪ The firm may look to other committees for details of the proposal as they decide at a time and place them every time to pay attention to the reports of other committees. It is particularly said, and it is unusual that other committees should be consulted by prisoners. I thank the senator for giving me even more enlightenment. It's a big thing, and the conduct of this case at the council is very strange. [[The president calls.]] Now, I'd like to hear from the secretary of finance to learn how it was prepared in the Ministry because there's a lot of errors and confusion in the paper itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u127	Mr. President. I thank the senator. I'm saying that it also comes out of the matter of this synonym, i.e. In conferences where it is said that this should be done, at least I understand that this is not the only thing to be put forward. Rather, it should be put forward to frames for the platforms, or litigators, or any way we want to talk about it. There is in itself quite little effort to have only the big picture and nothing else, not even a fundamental class distinction, as laid down in public financial matters. This is the shock of it. That is why I feel that she is not quite up to expectations in this regard when she was put out of the way to an otherwise infinite content and such. I didn't understand this rush, and I didn't understand my section of the budget. As I say, we wished to get reviews on this case, but the majority didn't think we needed it, and we'll see what we've got today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u128	V.E.G. President. Of course, it is always better to become more aware in the real world of how little emphasis is being placed on this proposal, which is still legal and, in my opinion, a very good step if it is right, i.e. coming into the council with a national financial programme, which is in the actual legal policy of the group, and then the budget will be based on that plan. Time is very tight because if the plan comes in on April 1, as calculated above, and people have to be ready for a budget bill at the beginning of September, they have to be almost there at the end of June because it is not possible to read the bill above, print it, and put away all the numbers in it. I was going to be like that. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson on the contents of this and the criticism that a smaller section of the legal committee will bring to the head of the budget. In itself, the plan is just one page, as it has been pointed out, it's just a cover that has total expenses, total income, total balance, and something like this, but you had the expectation that there would be talk about the budget and that underneath it was a government policy. Then you'd have a chance to focus, but those who have answered have said, "It's just a plan, it doesn't matter what the document says. I want to hear what I'm talking about. A senator will answer that question. I think it's kind of a disrespect for another good idea. This is about government policy as well as whether we will be given the opportunity to discuss a government budget and therefore discuss government policy, such as education, health matters, as we were saying, pension, and so on. This is not just the question of creating a frame that in other respects should not be followed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u129	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. This may be what we stressed and have stressed when we have expressed ourselves here, and many have been discussing this new matter on public finance as we know it, perhaps it is the change that we want to see and this government plan before it. However, we can begin to work for whatever we think is best. Because the budget needs to be placed at the end of June, and now the budget is in full effect, it is very difficult to see that there is no structure. I said before, and I've said before, that I know this is a plan, but if we can make the plan as practical as possible, it must help us make the administration better than it is today. In my section, we requested a meeting with a minister in the morning, so we asked for the vice form of a financial committee to see if he could see us in the morning and discuss this. He has seen it, and I may express my joy with it. I view him to some extent as agree that it is good to go over and at least be informed of the figures that have been made through the measures the government has made, to see how it works, and whether it allows both more things and less things to come along with some subsequent opinion. Other than that, we are to respect such devices as to cover policy of a government to the age of three, four. It's always talking about how people should be able to look ahead, make some proper plans that will go along, and demand it from our institutions. [[The president calls.]] This will not happen if it does not control it, then it will not be able to support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u130	V.E.G. President. I'm just gonna keep going with it for a little while. The senator concluded on, i.e. What a plan like this means. You see, I understand that although a plan is submitted and men don't think it's fully developed, the plan will tell you a policy. It is the same thing that we may need to discuss, but it is just the precise plan. It's also very unrealistic when they say, "Well, we're not going to do anything, we're just going to go up here. " We are going to cut down about 1%, as suggested in this document, and then an increase in expenses to a similar amount. Where are we going to carve, and how? For what categories of issues this should come, etc.? What I wanted to ask about in the second answer was about the fact that I was talking about an apartment loan fund. I find a little bold in this plan to assume that it won't cost anything to shut it down--or to shut it down? The answer has not been taken. There, ministers have given conflicting information. It seems to me that the advance company believes that the fund should live; others are because it should be shut down, and that it should only be collected. [[The president calls.]] This, for example, is part of the budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u131	A respectable president. We've talked a lot about the apartment loan fund and his position in this relationship and the uncertainty that comes with it. It was all right. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson came in earlier, and he arranged for our meeting on the follow-up of the budget, but there was no discussion of a financial program or the impact of his position on this strategy. It is also equally disparaging that governments cannot agree on what they are going to do or conduct the operation there. True, there is something that needs to be done and responded. I think it's part of the fact that the plan is set out in this irresponsible way, which is because people don't get along. I also worry about this on behalf of the country that may have been able to rely on a camp loan fund that has replaced it with many banks that have not. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u132	Mr. President. Now that I am next with a talk, there are some things that I find important to be able to get the highest. Secretary of finance, Bjarni Benediktsson, in answer to me. I see that he is registered in a house, as well as Guðlaugur, Þórðarson. It would be very helpful to have him here, too, as a private chairman of a legal committee in the absence of each other. paritaprevir Hauksdóttir, the Hawkdotttir. Can the president, please, ask the minister and chairman of the legal committee to come into the chamber to communicate with me? Now, I'm leaving, as I say, in a speech after this meeting talk. I'm asking the highest. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u133	The president will give it to the highest. Minister and minister. A senator is aware of this wish.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u134	A respectable president. In view of what I said earlier, I am living up here on the President's conference board, and in view of the fact that there has been a wish to have a minister meet with us in the morning on the basis of this General Assembly Reunion Directive. Of course, it is desirable for us to stop this discussion now, to keep it in place, and to take other matters on the program so that we can resume the discussion if there are any new criteria that I expect to be informed at the meeting in the morning. We've prayed that the matter be canceled because there are so many mistakes, but even more so now, when a minister has agreed, I understand, to meet with a financial committee in the morning. Then there is even more reason for us to set matters aside. I'm asking the President to investigate if he can't grant that wish in view of the fact that a minister has been invited to a staff meeting in the morning.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u135	Mr. President. I like what you're doing. paritaprevir Bjarkey Gunnarsdóttir asked the president to postpone a discussion on this subject, which is clear to the highest degree. Financial and economic ministers will be here in the morning. Legal committees discuss the value of the State budget and its payment unchanged. So I don't think there's any reason why we're going to stay here for a discussion until we know the results of the meeting. I think it is quite likely that the greater part would want to retract its commission and suggest that the council proposal will remain the same. If so, it would be better to go to the next case and wait until the hearing is past the staff meeting in the morning.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u136	A respectable president. I think this is a lot of good news, and it seems that there's some sense of reason to get into this chamber. It's been decided to the highest. Secretary of the budget is meeting with a financial committee in the morning. That's what we're here to discuss. It's a question of whether it's coming up with a follow-up or what's gonna happen. It must be a continuation of this rationality, which at last floats over the waters that the discussion is postponed until this session with the secretary of finance is concluded. Then perhaps there is something new inside that you can talk about.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u137	A respectable president. I'm glad we take it back into a committee and get the highest. Minister to our meeting, as has been called. Then it tells itself that the matter would have to be taken over because we do not know what the minister's reaction will be or the majority of the committees that will likely make a new committee opinion or how it is. There may be no point in discussing this matter right now. If we stop talking about it, I understand that there will be no further discussion, so it may not be possible either. I request a respectable president to respond to this matter as soon as possible and to decide whether this case will not be set aside and then we can discuss it after the hearing in a financial committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u138	Mr. President. I thank you for the fact that this has been the case with a meeting of the budget committee and taking the case into consideration, i.e. The proposals for this, as well as the likely agreement on the Committee, whether there is a reason to publish the latter or simply to allow the case to wait until the fall. I've heard both ideas here in debate. I got it. I got it. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur of Þór Þórðarson, the vice president of the Committee, to join us in our conversation with the president, where it is most likely that there will be a break in the discussion. In view of the fact that the matter will be discussed on the committee, I do not see why it is only natural for us to be in the Hall of Congress to discuss the matter as if it were just a second issue. which we're about to finish and finish with a vote. So I go to a sincere search for why. paritaprevir Guðlaug told Þór Thor Þórðarson that he would help us in our friendly conversation with the President to get the matter settled for now, and then we can take up the next subject on the council program.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u139	Mr. President. The meeting is due tomorrow, as mentioned here, and I am next on the platform to discuss this matter, which is to be addressed to the committee in the morning. We can save the council my speech, which will be about exactly why the matter needs to be addressed to a committee, how the procedure has been, not professional, missing the narratives, from both members of the Parliament and from other sources, especially those defined in the Senate resolution as uncertainty. The matter was not even sent to review, and only two were called to a meeting. We can save the council the time my speech takes if it's possible. ... thepresident of the budget board. paritaprevir Gulsome Þór Þórðarson, is in the process of the President's conference board, and he calls for a committee. The President can only deal with that, referred the case to a committee, and take the next part on the program.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u140	President. It's clear that when I and the council heads met last night, two lay ahead of us. The president informed us that it was to hold a meeting of presidents today, and the crisis was scheduled on Wednesday with our support. I have to say, it's hanging out. We assumed that we had drawn some conclusions to the council so that we could start a discussion about the problem and the minister of finance could discuss it here in good peace tomorrow. As far as I'm concerned, the President was totally aware that there was actually two things on the table. It was that there would be a conversation with the heads of the classes and that at the same time there would be a mutual understanding of the importance of a financial minister's measuring for these important matters. Do the words of the president work only when they're in the interests of the Commission? Is that so? Wouldn't the President's words be true when he's talking about presenting a meeting of presidents? [[The president calls.]] I'm very thinking about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u141	Mr. President. I find that much good news if it's right to the top. Secretary of the budget is going to see what. The legal committee in the morning. I would very much like to be confirmed by the highest degree. That's for the President. As has been repeated, both in the discussion as well as in the recent President's conference board, this is a future issue, i.e. The final discussion on this subject. That's why it's very important if the ultimate one. The secretary of finance will review the case with the committee tomorrow that there will be a break in this program, the case will be scheduled to be taken out of the program so that there will be something to discuss at the meeting tomorrow. That is not to say that this meeting is to be stopped. You can clean up the next situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u142	Mr. President. I reiterate my request to the president, who has now stated under this point that a national financial programme for 2016-2019 will be decommissioned for now and until a meeting of the budgetary committee at the highest level. Financial and economic ministers are out of business in the morning. Then we can proceed with the discussion and the conclusion of that meeting. Then I agree. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir, president of a group of left greens, it was the complete understanding of the council meeting that was held yesterday, that it hangs together, the program of tomorrow, and that today there would be a meeting of the heads of the Parliaments to pay for and sorcere differences so that we could finish here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u143	Mr. President. I'm kind of invited enough to hear that no president's meeting has been announced. I have to admit that I've misunderstood before, I thought there would be a meeting of the officers, and it had been issued, as it was decided at a council meeting yesterday with the President of the Generals, including that the meeting had been delayed. But now it is clear that it has not been intended to have any meeting today, and it is likely that people are not yet doing so. Is it not true somewhere that a word should stand? This is not the same with the head of the council, the highest. President, Einar K. Guðfinnsson? Is it not possible to trust his words when council officials meet? Is it a misunderstanding that men are making an agreement to set this big thing up tomorrow for the release of capital waste and that people have reached some conclusion here the day before? It is a shame that words cannot be trusted. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u144	A respectable president. Is it true what we're hearing here, we senators can trust the contracts that our council presidents make with the Council's president on the continuation of the program? I'm asking a private president to answer my question whether the contracts that were made yesterday have been handled on how to proceed from tomorrow onward. This is the first question. The second question is, Is it not proper to let our reason be in charge here on this program and take the matter that is now being discussed in the program for now until the meeting of the legal committee on this matter is complete? He's supposed to be in the morning.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u145	A sitting president can't express himself about a meeting until the week he didn't sit down. He does believe, however, that the rule of work at the Generals should be the wisdom and order of words.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u146	President. I thank you for the answers, and I have full understanding of the answers given to the president or what is found in them. I must say, though, that I am perfectly offended. I'm so offended because I've been waiting at the Assembly Hall all day for an invitation to meet the officers. In view of the reconciliation and the willingness to get the subject on schedule tomorrow, I feel completely ignored. I haven't had a phone call from what. paritaprevir Bjarni Benediktsson's son. I haven't had a phone call from what. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson. I haven't had a single phone call from the President of the Generals or an e-mail or a text message, and what I experience here isn't in order to be interested in paying a way for something to come along with all the other people hanging over them. This is not welcome, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u147	A respectable president. I can say that it's odd when this is announced, including... from the president's talk program that the presidents will meet today, and then all the officers wait for a phone call or a text message, and nothing happens. But that wasn't what I wanted to put the most emphasis on here. We are discussing a case that has been decided to return to a committee so that we can learn more about it, whether it might be made a change, a new committee's opinion written, and so on. There's no point in discussing the matter here. I don't know why we have a meeting board or a respectable president who's conducting a meeting if it's not just to decide if it's right to push this case aside because it's called. We can talk about it again when it comes out of the committee. Now it may be that the first president has to make that kind of decision, but then he'll just have to be called in because otherwise it's some kind of charade and nonsense, and then we can just manage this meeting ourselves. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u148	Mr. President. I just think it's the ultimate loneliness. The president will call in a convocation hearing with members of the council and our first president, the Supreme Court. The president of the Einar Kristinn son of Guðfinnsson, will review these matters. The president who was sitting here earlier today announced that there would be a meeting later today, and nothing has been announced. We don't have to be offered anything to members of Congress. We do a lot of work at this workplace, we never know in advance what the day of work will be long, and we are completely unsure about what subjects are on the schedule the day after each, and things that humans are not complaining about at all. But it's gone so far that when people meet and trust that there's going to be a president's meeting to try to sort out the confusion in the matter of Congress, and it's just up to you, and vaguely, it's not acceptable. [[The president calls.]] [[The point is, it's true.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u149	Mr. President. One step forward, and two steps back, you get a little bit of the feeling that if you're doing the Senate work that summer. I was very optimistic, even though my mouth was not at all confirmed. To hear that there should be a meeting with the secretary of finance in the morning and that made me very happy. Therefore, I find it shocking to hear that an agreement was made with the heads of the classes made with members of the House of Congress yesterday, where it was linked to the scheduled game and that a meeting would not be held, that the meeting was not yet being announced. To this day, I have not spoken of an intermission. Rather, I have spoken that the next matter will simply be considered. Now, however, I feel that the situation is much up to the fact that there is nothing else but taking at least a short break to clear up the situation so that we can identify the next steps and how we should act. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u150	Mr. President. I have hoped that it would be good news for me to see a relief committee whisper to the president that here we are going to put this case aside for a while and take up another case or postpone a meeting until the president's meeting has been held. This is minimal in view of his failure to preach and the conduct of the council, of course, did not bring honor to the people or to those in charge of not proclaiming a meeting that was said yesterday to be announced in the afternoon. The afternoon has long since come, so the meeting should have been at least there. It would be worth doing even if there was only a brief period of time to shave this point and to see if people will reach any conclusion about the continuation of the program, whether it will appear tonight or will be left to a good name today. I would like to continue to discuss the matter, but I would like to discuss the following matters on the program rather than what is under it in view of the fact that a meeting has been announced to a financial committee in the morning with a minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u151	A respectable president. I'd like to draw attention to the fact that when a meeting is held the following day and that information is likely to be presented at that meeting, there is an excessive legitimate request to discuss until then. This is why such prayers are offered because suspicions about how the Council works basically. It is assumed that the goal is to delay. It's not just anyone. It's not anybody's fault. I think it's a systematic problem, such as so many with regard to the council work here, but it would be good if they were to take some material position to see why other matters could not be taken on the program now without shortening anything or taking some sort of break on these objectives.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u152	President. I reiterate to my position that I think it is right and fair to do as well with the General Time here in June as possible. The situation today is about to become virtually unprecedented, first of all, waiting for a meeting of members of the council that has not been declared but has been imminent all day for the situation and for the remaining issues. Since then, the highest. Secretary of the budget to see the panel tomorrow. Is he to speak of a synoptic decree that is laid out? Is it the meaning, Mr. President, to try to move forward with evening meetings and continued discussions - the time is becoming five - with such intensity that the matter will be resolved before the minister of finance has answered questions? It's completely ridiculous. Now, let's just stop, and if you want to talk until six or seven, let's take the next item at hand. [[The president calls.]] It's about the income tax and there's no use in talking about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u153	President. We are at the council to solve a very large, difficult task brought to the council yesterday, and we have all declared the will to do so in the most professional way possible. At the same time, there's trouble. paritaprevir Bjarni the son of Benediktsson has been sitting in the House all day, like me, as well as other members of the clans and has not been invited to a meeting with the heads of the clans. I don't like this kind of work. It is now about five o'clock, and this meeting has not yet been called, which is essential for us to continue our work. I propose, Mr President, this meeting will be terminated immediately. The meetings are out.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u154	A respectable president. When it is known that more information is going to appear the following day, it is reasonable to show the members of the council who still have a long talk period in the relevant language the courtesy of giving them the opportunity to get that information before speaking. It would be necessary if this was a matter of Congress anywhere near a normal convention that they haven't been in for a long time, and you fear that it will never occur if there is no intervention in both the council, a respectable president, and a constitution. Now the situation here is that the heads of the packs are waiting for a meeting, and they don't hear a thing, and nobody knows anything, and then you're wondering why we're here. I know that a respectable president cannot answer that question. That's not how the Council works, not now, not yesterday, and unfortunately not tomorrow either.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u155	Mr. President. While this subject should be discussed in the morning and this is a second discussion - I'm going through my first talk in terms of this subject, a 20 - minute talk where I could discuss the matter better myself - I need to make use of that speech in reviewing reasons why this case is not at home in the discussion right now, why this case is at home again on the committee. But okay. I'm going to pray to the highest. Just before, a president, as I requested, asked for the President's conference board to ask the highest level. Bjarni Benediktsson's secretary of finance whether he's ready to enter the room or in the side room and listen to my speech. I believe I have legitimate reasons, and even legitimate reasons, that this case is not at home now; there is a need to do it better on a committee and even that the committee points it back to the minister. It's important to get to the top. Ministers are hearing a summary of the legitimate concern of the senators who have participated in the discussion so that I may ask for the highest degree. The president of the United States has sent a message to the highest level. Secretary of finance. I'll just wait here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u156	The president wants to inform you that he has already reached the highest level of messages. A minister as requested will try to alert him again.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u157	I thank the President for that. Let me ask you the highest. President if they are still trying to contact the secretary of finance.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u158	A president can tell you why. The senator's being sent a message to the Minister as far as the president knows. The president informs us that the minister is conscious of the request.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u159	A minister is conscious of his request and is in a house?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u160	He's in a house.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u161	Okay. Thank you. To get evidence that there is a legitimate reason why this matter should return to a financial committee, we need to consider its importance first. The main objective of the State Economic Policy is to promote economic stability, the production capacity of the economy and the contribution to the government. That's our primary objective. To reach them, this is stated in 6 mg. 25. track No. 55/1991, about the General Assembly, that these financial policies should be considered. At the beginning of the Parliament's decree, the Council concluded, according to an article in the Senate, that governments are following government policy-making policies for terms of the budget of the year 2016-52019; and only below, that a decision is made on the basis of the prefects established by a national budget. By offering this matter to achieve the principal objective that the General Assembly will tell the government that they follow these policies on the basis of the ancients we know today that they are by no means correct. The committee that had the case for a discussion - and if we take the time line, she had the issue discussed for a month and a half - doesn't make any changes, although during this one and a half months there is a complete change in the basis of their prerogatives as the financial programme is established. When it comes to the financial policy of the State, it is highly irresponsible. What I need to know from the secretary of finance is: Is he bound by this council decree? He puts it before the council -- he doesn't work it himself, it's the Ministry that wins it. But he no doubt sets this schedule for the council in good faith. What did he think would happen here at the council? He thought the council would just say, "Yes, okay, it's a terrible job for you, and we accept it, it's just a good thing. Is that what a minister would expect? It would be good to get an answer from a minister about it. And he's in a house, and he's been mentioned that I'm waiting for him, and it's very important that we get the answers. He can come up here and take an answer unless he went to the leader meeting, which he should be on now; I'd accept that, and I'd just catch him in the next speech. But it is important that he answer that question. Did he, when he concluded before the council that the greater part would say, "It's just grossly good, disgusting with you, and we don't have to change anything about this?" Let's cross the council time line. The matter comes to the council from Secretary of Ministers on April 1. That leaves 22 days of the six weeks, three weeks, half of the time, until the matter is taken up to the previous. and referred to committees. - Yeah, thanks, chief. Secretary of finance is now in the hall. Thank you so much. I don't know if it's the highest. Minister has heard what I've mentioned so far. But what I'm doing in this talk is trying to argue that there are legitimate reasons why this case should be held back at the budget board. I need to repeat myself a little, I'm gonna ask the listeners to excuse that. The main objective of this national budget is economic stability, economic production capacity of the economy and financial recovery. When it comes to these factors to help that end, the Generals should conclude, according to the Convention, that the government will comply with national financial policies prior to 2016 in 2020, on the basis of the prerogatives established by a national budget. This is clearly an important point; this is an important point that it is attached in the council that the Council should conclude this and that the government or government should follow through on it; and it is spoken of as the foundation of the premium upon which the budget of government is established. Now we know, it's been shown in this discussion, that this foundation, this foundation, is broken. It is important for us to know from the secretary of finance whether he is expecting, when he proposes this on April 1, that a greater proportion of the legal committees to address the matter - and, among other things, are specifically stated in the laws of Congress that other committees can be consulted as to the uniqueity of the proposal, and it is not customary to say so. However, the case is not referred to any other committee, nor is it sent out a statement to someone that is important to get comments and that I mention the issues relating to instability or other risk factors as to the fulfillment of these policies. I'm gonna mention the Substitution Fund, the partner of the labour market and a lot of other people I can mention below. There is not even a request to receive written references. The matter itself, although a minister brings it forward on April 1, it is not in the past. until the 22nd month, three weeks later, but that is half of the time being taken care of at the council. It is mentioned in a committee before, referred to on April 13. April 15th are the only guests, except for the Ministry that was introducing the subject, Our State's Accounting and Iceland's Haggis. The matter is then reviewed in the 13th month, six weeks after it arrives at the council. It is important for the minister to answer this question: Did the minister expect that when the matter was taken out with the committee's opinion of a large part of the legal committee that it would just be suggested that it be unchanged? As stated in the committee opinion: The majority suggest that the proposal be accepted unchanged - yes, this is May 13. It is important to get an answer to this from a minister: Did he really expect that the matter he put forth in charge of this plan, about this important factor, would only be agreed the same out of the committee six weeks after a minister gives it a completely altered and completely changed basis? That is exactly the basis for which a minister should then work after the next year and three years thereafter. It's a very, uh, Šdubius, and I'd like an answer from a minister in this regard. If we review the committee's opinion of the object, I'd like to ask a minister if he'd studied it, study those points. Now he's been invited to the Committee tomorrow to discuss this plan, this case that we're discussing right now in a second discussion - if it's over today, there's no further discussion, it's over, it's over. I'm asking if a minister, if he's been announced, should be at the fundraiser tomorrow morning to discuss this matter. And I'm also asking if he doesn't feel right in taking a case off the program, so we can talk about it again tomorrow and just talk about other issues that are on the program today. We don't need to postpone a meeting because there are a lot of things ahead of us and it's important that we keep working, instead of having to discuss this right now. So I ask if it's not important that we take this matter off, that's another question, to discuss it tomorrow. I was trying to ask you a different question earlier, if it's the highest. A minister has read the committee's opinion of the minority and what he has to say on these matters. He might answer that question, if he's going to show up, he may be more of a member of the Committee tomorrow. Regarding the basis and reason, the origin of this conference, it's a natural assembly. It says, by permission of the president, at 6 mg. 25. par.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: The minister who handles the government's budget shall submit to the General Assembly, no later than April 1, every year, a proposal for the resolution of the main distribution of budgets for the next budget year (correspond), as well as a report on changes in the state's revenues. The proposal should follow a budget for the next three years. The minority opinion shows that they are missing this frame, they're missing the first point. The law says that it should also be submitted. It immediately indicates that this has not been fully completed in the Ministry before the matter was presented here at the council. I'm asking if a minister has any reasons for that. If we continue to discuss how this has been done in the Ministry, there are a number of factors that stand out. Twice, there is talk of a currency head. There's not a currency head in Iceland, like the highest. A minister has mentioned himself here in a speech chair, and outlined for members of the council; these are not a currency chief, they are capitalists. But on page 18. 25 says, with President's permission, about one of the uncertainty and risk factors: The ECHR of domestic and national markets could begin to increase after currency heads have been lifted and when international financial markets are reduced. Then, a further increase in the U.S. Department's gangs, or success, following the release of capital officers could have a significant impact on the foreign debt of the state's funds. The same paragraph refers to a head of currency and capital. But on page 18, the currency head is named twice. This suggests that the synopsis proposal has simply not been read well enough if the word "fundant " comes into two places, and even in the same sentence and the word" cashier " is used. I just learned from the highest. A minister on the difference between capital capital capital and currency... and when I read through this... it's a no-go at once. If the Ministry is doing this, the Ministry itself, and such errors, it indicates that this has been done in a hurry, that the task has not been done. I'd like to ask the minister if I'm understood correctly that talking about a currency head on page 18 and page 25 is talking about the capital masters. At the end, I would like to commend another chairman of the committee, who has a bad temper. paritaprevir Konráðsdóttir Konásdótsdóttir for directing committees of such professionalism that there is not much controversy about the form and how the cases are handled, i.e. Things are done professionally. She immediately arranges for managers and puts forth a plan on how a situation will be handled. It immediately goes to request references, etc. and things are done professionally, so that you do not have to argue about shapes; but you can certainly argue about the subject. But this case is not professional. Thank you very much. Minister for coming here, and I hope I get some good answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u162	Mr. President. I would like to begin by saying that although the wording is made in a unique place, it was not made up of this body of Congress. It is not in itself wrong to talk about the currency capital, but it is more accurate to speak of capitalism. But here are questions to consider as a matter of concierge. Then I'd like to first note that there are some uncertainties in this conclusion. We will always face the challenge, when we set up a national budget until the previous part of the year and are predicting long into the future, that even on the next year, there will be many uncertainty. It is only natural for people to ask themselves now, once we have reached the conclusions in collective agreements and have been submitted basics related to the case, whether or not there are other uncertainty issues that have been destroyed since the synonym proposed. I'm of the opinion that the effect cannot be fixed so that it can be written into the budget and mentioned as an example of the effects of the employment programs. In fact, the same can be said about the dress, there are still some unsolved ones, especially those who come to the state. It takes a lot of time to evaluate the impact of the contracts on the public market. I'm not talking about if we should start to estimate the potential results of the public market. It takes a lot of time to work, and it calls for up-to-date national interest predictions, and we need to take into account both the income and the pay. When we have a government budget here at the council in the future, we must accept that we cannot provide for all things, and in itself need to be updated constantly. The long schedule will always depend on them. So I didn't expect very deep work to be done here at the council, but that we could rather take the big picture and discuss whether the emphasis on the plan is in harmony with the engagement. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u163	Mr. President. Of course, policy changes take place. Everyone who has read something about military art knows that Napóleon Bónaparte said that no fighting went the way he had planned. Yet, he was the general who organized his battle best because the more you organize things, the more you are prepared for uncertainty. This leads to these uncertainty issues. I find it very strange not to have been called by references, at least written references, from the sources of uncertainty. What do you think, camp loan fund? What do you think, members of the workforce? Do we look at a recession of tourism or fishing failure, a drop in export markets, a problem in business countries? What about the State Department of Pension? There should have been reviews from these sources, so in a committee study, which appears six weeks after the matter is presented, there were indications, depending on the good work of the council, who are these risk factors, that they are clearer and in particular, in view of their change too. This is not for distribution. It's under the roof. Isn't it natural that the council sent out minimal requests to those who can shed light on these things? Would it not even be reasonable for them to be called so that they could be contacted? This was the subject of the council for six weeks. It is often requested in a week, it would clearly have been possible. Does it not really make sense for a minister to have been called by reviews? Does a minister not feel that since we have time, the case goes to the committee and we get some information about the candidates at a meeting and get a clearer picture in the committee opinion, although we do not alter the synopsis itself; that is as an attachment from the council to improve policy development?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u164	Mr. President. I'm not thinking too strongly about how the council decides to handle the situation. But yes, I might say, it's probably a matter of filing a case and getting a point of view. As for the delays that took place, from the time the case was submitted until the discussion was discussed here, then it knows why. A senator's duties have been carried out in the past few weeks. There have been indistinguishable discussions about the President's meeting board, and there have been a number of cases, including this. I say with this case and with its unique features, i.e. A national budget, that we are making it available in this form, in a special Senate document, for the first time. It's happening right now in the spring months. That alone is a turning point, and I think it matters. Here we are trying to focus on the big picture. I think they're well gathered in the leading party of the greater section. I think the debate should be about the big picture, about the aim of such a state's income coming in years, how income and expenses should develop, and debts, over the period you're looking at; that we should be discussing this. [[The president calls.]] I'm sorry that the discussion is about details that have to do with wording somewhere in the middle of a plan, etc.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u165	Mr. President. The wording in the program is just an indication that the document has not been read well. V.E.G. A minister himself has said, though he changes his word only now, that we are discussing capital, not currency. Yet, this wording came into play. That's pathetic. It shows that this was not a good job. It gives us a picture of how all this work is done, how it's done. It's not all legalized. Okay, you may understand that men want to start with this and test, etc. But they have to start this thing by law. They didn't exactly do the law, they didn't do everything in Congress, not all the things to be done in the Senate, they didn't. People may feel that it's okay to do this in some kind of an act. I don't know. When I take a job, I try to focus on fewer factors, doing them well, and not going anywhere unless you can do it well. You have to appreciate for yourself how they want to win this thing. But this is not a good job. If the General agrees, the government will agree to follow a policy that clearly is no longer available. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u166	A respectable president. I promised you what. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson to answer because he was going to direct me to questions, but then something less would come of it if I understood why. A senator is correct. [[Up front.]] - Yes, yes, I can quite answer the same questions as the highest. Minister Bjarni Benediktsson did. As we have seen, this is the first time this kind of document has been submitted. As a result, we are taking our first steps in this regard. I hope we can agree to accept a government bill. That means we need them right away, if we agree to do that, to introduce a changed system so that we can see them both changing our work ethic and the like. I was in the city of Reykjavík when we started this practice there. I remember that discussion quite well, then, in my part. We were aware that men were not at the place the men intended for the first time. But people thought it better to get started and discuss things and get on with it. It is absolutely clear that the case cannot be completed for the first time that it is submitted. V.E.G. Ministers have been very supportive. As chairman of the Committee, I was asked to do so at the time. 15,28 today for a hearing in the morning. I immediately contacted him, and I think it may be said to the highest degree. A minister is extremely helpful, not to be taken deeper in the year, in opposition to the government, for I was able to answer that in a few minutes later. 15,57, that he was ready to attend a meeting or two. Named. After some years of being held at the council, I insist that this does not necessarily mean that it is. I will discuss the following points to discuss, and hopefully I will have the opportunity to do so. But it's totally clear, and it's always been that this case isn't made up yet, so I'm sure. It's also clear that we will be able to accept the official financial bill, which I hope, we will have to change this procedure.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u167	Mr. President. I thank you for the private chairman of the budget board, anyway. paritaprevir Guðlaugur gave Þór son of Þórðarson, for responding very quickly to a request for the requested meeting and minister for responding and arriving to discuss the matter. If we finish this discussion today, we're going to the meeting tomorrow and we're going to be talking about it. So I want to ask you why. A senator, a local chairman of the Committee, whether it's okay for him to postpone a discussion about this, to take care of other matters, to continue. We've got plenty of stuff to talk about. We can settle the matter even when the committee has discussed this and has arranged for visitors to meet, where the case was not sent out. That's unnatural, and maybe especially since it's being won for the first time. Why not do so as well as get to the committee meeting, as is permitted, the opinion of other committees or reports; the opinion of other committees at the council, as the minority requested? Why was that not accepted? I ask, in view of the law on Congress, it says: ▪ The firm may look to other committees for details of the proposal as they decide at a time and place them every time to pay attention to the reports of other committees. The case was with the Committee for a month. It would have been easy to ask for it, as the lesser part did - perhaps the highest. sitting boss it isn't because he's vice president and wasn't always there and didn't always run meetings, but it was the wish of a smaller part. Why was this just not done? I know why. A senator, a seated chairman, why not respond? It is specifically required by the law of Congress and by the very unnatural failure to accept it. Second, I ask, Why wasn't this just a review, and especially to those in particular who could have given us a clearer picture of this uncertainty?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u168	A respectable president. It's been under the law of Congress for a while. It's just not been followed. A person may feel that this was supposed to be better and more detailed than it is today, but it is a huge change from being nothing. In fact, I think this is a good foundation for talking and going over. I think, more dignified President, if we were nonpolitical, if we were somewhere else, we'd come to this conclusion: it's a good thing that this should be done, it's a good foundation. Now let's finish the official financial bill because we're going to a different kind of work. It's a foundation we're based on, and it won't leave us. Let us discuss the pros and cons of the fence in the present situation. It is clear that there are uncertain factors in this, but this is a good basis for working on it when we face the public financial agenda. That's how I think most people would get close. Then, of course, there is room for disagreements. I don't think anybody could see that the case would be taken over by this man's friend and would be abandoned in this way. It must acknowledge it as I will come to, if I can give a speech below, and consider further. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u169	Mr. President. I agree that it's good to start some job in order to get some kind of protolyticity, that's an excellent process. Yet, the situation is growing in such a way that the Council concludes that the government should follow a certain course on a basis that is not yet there. Of course, it is better to start with this, because it is under law that it should be done rather than to do nothing. But there is nothing that would have stopped a legal committee in sending the case up. That's a normal process, but it wasn't. That's what's so fucking unnatural. The nominees may have thought, " Yes, we're just trying, and we're not going to spend much time in a meeting, etc. It's just a test drive on the case, maybe it shouldn't take too much time. Still, the case could have been sent out. It doesn't take any time. It is of great interest that this has not been done.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u170	Mr. President. The discussion took quite a leap, and it became a little more interesting, if the one here is supposed to describe his experience, after he reached the highest level. Financial and economic ministers as well as vice president of what? The budget came in answer. I want to say the highest words. Economic and economic ministers when he says that when such issues, like the government budget for some year, are being discussed, there are always some uncertainty issues upstairs and the plan cannot be updated constantly. On its own, I completely agree with that. But I would like to ask. paritaprevir Þór Ólafsson whether he agrees with me in that when it agreed that such important issues are being discussed and bills, which simply affect the criteria they are taking over - as happened here yesterday, where the bills of the law on stable taxes, the bill on financial companies and the bill for repairs - would be normal for a break in the discussion and the committee to take over the matter so as to see at least in the members of the committee that the council realized that four cases are falling together at the same time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u171	Mr. President. A greater proportion of the budget is having the privilege of doing this professionally now. He was going to start this thing and do it somehow, but now he has come up with legitimate criticism that the Council should then agree that the government follows a policy that rests on the edge of a broken line. It would have been possible to work on that committee view, since it would have been a list of how the basis has changed and influenced policy. The date process is not complete; it is not completed until the second round. is finished. That's the discussion we're in and after it, the policy process is over. So most of the Committee and the President of the Generals have it in their hands to do this professionally. That's what we're calling for. The council president has 25th degree. permission to refer a subject to a committee at any stage of it, and a greater proportion of the committee may call for this too. There will be a meeting at the Committee tomorrow, where much of it will be an opportunity to bring the matter to its senses. It's not that complicated, so the more part just calls it to itself. At least we'll have a week more here at the council, and then you can send the case in a review procedure, get reviews from these agents. How much is that gonna cost us? This requires that we stop discussing this matter and start discussing other needs, that is, what it costs us. It's a huge cost, though, or the other one's. Then the committee will have to discuss this tomorrow, which she will do anyway, according to comments. The committee and members of Parliament don't have to do anything else, just wait for them. Once the comments are passed, we need to slip through them, and the more part can introduce them to their leading opinion, which is permitted by the council in 29 C.E. That's all there is to be done to make this process more professional.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u172	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I was trying to follow the discussion here and, yes, I heard that there is a certain standing to hold a meeting at once. It's a legal committee tomorrow. But I'm wondering if I've missed something, because it's really so that this is the second discussion. If the case cannot be delayed, then the debate will be over as it is today, because here we can meet until midnight, and I don't think anyone will continue to discuss this matter for so long. Has a what? Some senator hears with certainty the understanding that the discussion is not to be delayed. A senator like me still in a void of nothingness with what the plan is, what is the point of more things anyway. Is the legal committee really going to handle this today?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u173	Mr. President. The majority of the committee and its chairman could thus see calling for a meeting now, even if it is a meeting meeting. There are some exceptions, so the source is available. The matter can be called to the committee if the president does not decide to present the case there personally, so it is possible to do so. It just doesn't seem like it's willing. We have absolutely legitimate reasons for calling after a bit of professional work, especially now that this is being done for the first time, that it is all under the headings of reviews of the factors that create the most uncertainty, of factors that have changed very much since the fact came out. But okay, don't seem to be a wish, then it must be, but then, people, when they're going to vote this vote, with a contingency to the government that they're acting on a ground full of a smile, have had every opportunity to correct that foundation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u174	President. The amazing news as well as the good news has been given to hold a meeting of the council's presidents. It's been announced at six o'clock, and I'm especially glad to hear it. I think it breaks within them to be called the late part, later today, and it's six o'clock, and it's in itself fine. [[Take it up to this: later today.]] [[It's 6:00 a.m.]] I rejoice, of course, and hope that the meeting will lead to a closer solution. I also rejoice under these teams. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur of Þór Þórðarson has had the talker's list brought up in peace with others there, hoping that he would agree that the discussion here will be postponed, in view of the fact that the discussion will actually be brought into the committee in the morning. I think it's a good subject that we take them into account for the next event on the meeting program. Although it's almost six o'clock, I think it makes sense that we can see what the summit is leading us before we make decisions about the continuation of a council meeting otherwise than the urgency of it. A senator to take that to heart.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u175	A respectable president. Never too often is a good reference. I'm glad we're here for the presidents' meeting with the six officers. It can't be later. This was promised yesterday, and it was proved that people were quite disappointed by an hour or so, when it became clear that a meeting was not yet being held and even if it was not possible for a meeting to be held. Like a snooze. paritaprevir I hope that's what Svavarsdóttir's got. Þórðarson I hope that, after meeting a legal committee in the morning with great intensity and the Supreme Court, he will set matters straight in front of us. Minister will take a good turn to attend. [[The president calls.]] I trust that now good men are about to act in this council hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u176	Mr. President. I'm glad that the President's meeting has been made, as it was. That's fine, because I was getting scared that that part of the deal wasn't going to last. Fortunately, the chairmans are meeting at six o'clock with the president, and I hope that the results of that meeting will be positive for the Senate work. At my request, a meeting will be in the morning to discuss the state's financial situation and the value of the budget that we are here to discuss. Thank you. paritaprevir But I think that if Guðlaugur Þór Þórir Þórðarson, a vice president of the budgetary committee, responds quickly in a positive way, I feel that there is a reason to ask for that meeting to be made clear, where the committee will discuss the position and payment of a budget plan, if it is taken off the program and for other matters to be taken in the meantime.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u177	A respectable president. I've tried to keep track of this discussion as far as I can. It's been quite a long time. I'll admit it's quite surprising, not because I thought everyone would agree on the matter, but maybe we're a little much involved instead of the material. As mentioned earlier, we are fulfilling a political law. It hasn't been done before. I consider this to be one of the steps we take in a particular process of development when it comes to public finance, trying to think for a long time. V.E.G. A minister noted both in his opening words and in his answers, as well as in the plan that this was a strong uncertainty. No matter what we do on the job then, you just talk about things the way they are, we can't go to the place where we call for a new national economy and a forecast for three years based on the factors that have really changed, whether it's a bargain deal or a decommission. We need to decide what we're going to do with this. These are not budgets for each year, this is a plan and we will not continue this if we agree to the public financial bill. On the other hand, this is a good foundation for building, and this work is not being done for grass, on the contrary. This may not be the first step, but at least one step in getting to where I hope we can get to. I'm going to go through some of the things that have happened here. I shall quite admit that I took a little consideration for the speech of a man. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon because I disagree with him in most things, I thought he would look at the views of the government opposition, the left man in the council, and therefore he intended to look into the criticism he had on the team. Well, at least not at all. A senator has not mentioned it, to make it clear, has spoken full - scale that there have been an incision to health and that this government is subject to health and social security. I don't understand why. In fact, when facts are presented, members speak in this way. I don't know if anyone thinks that if they say this enough, everyone's gonna believe it. The numbers speak for themselves. It has been most important to increase your donations and place extra money on health issues and insurance issues. As early as this government, at the summer council, 8 billion more were put in the pension insurance and has nothing to do with the growing numbers of pensioners, as many think. Many of the impairments, perhaps all of them, are difficult to compare with, which was recently taken in the last government following the collapse of the bank. The same can be said of health care. For example, it shows that there are higher rates of hospitals than there are in terms of both the price and the pay number. If we go to dental services and other activities, we are talking about a much higher amount of money, a 42% increase. The rate of government health has increased too. It's not just for billions, it's also in proportion. I'm asking for the best of my kindness. control status, don't stop criticizing government officials, not at all, but treat them properly. [[Up front.]] This government has been a priority for setting priorities for basic services. There's been a lot of talk over that the government has gone down on taxes like it's a particularly bad thing. I draw attention to it. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, former U.S.A. Secretary of finance has calculated the tax declines of the current government to a total of over 30 to 25 billion dollars. Then he refers to the taxes, such as the wealth tax, the fishing fees, the market fees, energy taxes, the valuable tax, fuel taxes, and income tax, as well as up-to-date insurance fees. I just hope this is true, that we have managed to reduce taxes by 50 of you. A million. K. Of course, that is a thrilling news for the people of the land. I'm going to go to every tax for myself, first the wealth tax. The wealth tax is a tax on which the last government put on which it called temporary. It was clearly stated. This tax was taken into court because, whether they make money or not, it affects people. I asked about it during the last term, more specifically at the 138th legislation, and it was made clear that people still pay this tax, even though it does not have a high income. These are almost exclusively older people, and in many cases, people had to sell property to pay the tax. Yet, certain assets were taken out like pensions. Those who have such property that would share this tax are primarily politicians who have been government officials for a long time. The people who pay this tax are largely people who could not be in a pension fund or who could not pay any part of a pension fund and otherwise make a pension fund. And it's wrong that we've canceled the wealth tax, they've been released, the law wasn't renovated. It is worth considering that politicians think it's the most natural thing in the world to say: It's a temporary tax, but later they say, "Hey, it was all fake, it was never meant to be temporary. " In a very good interview at what. paritaprevir My new Harðardóttir, Oddný G.. At that time, was the highest. Minister, I mean it, it was a good interview where a lot of smart things happened. A senator - because I work with what I am. This was not surprising, for a member of the budget board was not surprised. A senator more often than not by both means and by advising matters - made it clear that the wealth tax would not be replaced. She also made a very reasonable statement about how she wanted to see the changes in the merit tax, much like the way the present government has done. Reasonably so. A senator was absolutely entitled, and I can agree with them. This is exactly one of the things the current government has done, reducing the gap between tax steps. Why? Because when the gap is too much, it fosters tax expenditure. In technical terms, the value of the tax system is not efficient, and in some cases it can be reasoned that the employer can determine which tax per cent he will pay for in the number of stages. It is a system that is of no benefit, especially to those who rely most on government money, those who may remember themselves. I was hoping that these things would be at ease with me. Councilmen to read the article of the former Supreme Court. Minister, Sighvatur Björgvin's Björgvinsson of the German Party, of the production of the valuable tax system and how it was developed, an article that appeared some time ago in DV. Simply put, all classes receive their share of criticism. Initially, the tax was one step and no longer a tax, but the politicians of all classes began to break the system apart, and the result was that we had the highest values taxation level built. Happily, this is no longer the case because we have managed to lower the highest steps. If someone claims that those with the smallest income do not pay the highest value tax level, the individual is either talking against a better level or he does not know what the value tax will be. The cost of fishing is that changes were mainly in the production of small and medium-sized fishing costs and applied to the largest projections. I call attention to it, because men speak here as if this is an endless source of wealth and taxes, that one nation in OECD accepts a fishing warrant that takes taxes in this regard. All other nations will pay with the deportation. It is good to bear in mind when someone criticizes the fishing system, so to speak. Before we are going to turn it into the basics, we do well to consider why we will lose it if we do. What a pleasure it is that we are taking large sums of money into the common funds of our country rather than having to pay with the fishing industry, as other nations have done, and in fact we have had to make it all the way through. Of course, we can go out there and raise the cost of hunting. It will require increased management and simply means that we have fewer companies, it tells itself, and the companies that are affected by the need to unite and slip into the larger structures are small and medium-sized. If so, an increase in taxation is to be required in this respect. It has also been criticized that we do not charge fuel, oil fees, heavy taxes, etc. That's exactly right, I hope we'll rather lower it than raise it. I believe there are many reasons why we should not taxe the public more than we already have. I'm very pleased with it, Mr. Honorable President that we are taking a big step in reducing income tax. It can be better if it's enough. I don't feel bad that people with moderate income can feel the most. I think it's a real pleasure. Similarly, in this context it has been said that it is so terrifying to contribute to a major industry. I asked why. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon why the last government would have gone as hard as it proved during the last term. We're talking about, for example, a tunnel just for the job at Backka. The project is to build a tunnel that was supposed to cost 1.8 billion, but the cost has increased to 3.1 billion, and the tunnel is just for the job at Húsavík, not for the public, a tunnel that cost $3.1 billion. In the morning, we'll be right there. A legal committee is calling for information on how this can be carried out at a meeting that has been discussed here. What kind of plan is it for the last government to walk up to 1.8 billion, which, in turn, raises up to 3.1 billion, 3,100 billion. K.? Similarly, there will be a question in the Vadala-league tunnel, but the criteria for working there were the Cave Hall, at least to be introduced in this way. Unfortunately, plans do not seem to have been successful in this regard. Then we have agreements about this great industry. It's at least more in word for the last government to be against a big business than a table. There will be no more than the fact that men have done some pretty large projects to create this grand industry, very large projects paid from public funds. This is all happening, and today we can agree to build a big industry, but we must agree that we need to make a good plan. Sadly, it has not worked out, has not gone to the last government, and we need to do well to learn from that mistake. Before the collapse of the bank, we were able to pay off debt, fortunately. The nation would now be in a very difficult situation if it had not been successful. There has been a lack of discipline in public financial matters. When the last government went very well, it had considerable success in discipline matters. But, unfortunately, when it divorced, there was a great lack of discipline in the business business, according to a report made by the Kingdom Accounting Office in my 2013. By then, the lack of discipline was by 38% and was much higher than it had been seen for a very long time. I hope we're not sure we're going to fix this. I'm not going to roll men anything out of this to or out of it. I think the big thing is that we need to work it out together. Therefore, it is so important that we discuss public financial matters, learn from the nations who have done well in this regard, for example. Sweden. We've made them special. Our last budget visited Sweden, and we did so in the middle of the work program here. We have held 25 committees meeting on official financial matters. Because of what? paritaprevir Jón Ólafsson was wondering about his workload, so we put that bill first because it's where we're making a long - term contribution. With all due respect to this program, if we succeed and we agree to the public finance bill, that of course, much more important than this plan - with all due respect for it and without my wanting to minimize it, a respectable president. Hv. One senator asked why no more time had been taken on top of the matter. I hope that it will answer that in the spring, the two priorities were public financial matters and the rest of the State's budget was under control. I think it's the right priorities. S-labelled medicinal products and medical costs have been discussed here in general. There is something that we need to discuss, that is, of the degree that it really is important when it comes to the financial affairs of the State. This is a group of subjects with different successes. It is quite impressive that one of the world's richest people, the Norwegian, has been successful when it comes to maintaining these costs. It is a very sensitive case and the nature of a case according to this definition easy to play on emotions in this regard. I hope that we can talk about it objectively and learn from those who have succeeded, since this will not only focus on the government's expenses; it also turns to that, if the cost goes out of control, there will be less anywhere else. That's what you're saying. This is especially true in health care. S-labelled are the medicines that are full of time on how to work because they are useful and have little experience with them. Most countries come up with something to decide what medications they take from politics, try to push it away from politics. For example, people have special institutions or committees, where ethicists, doctors, and others like them decide on what medications they are taking. The nature of the matter is tried to achieve the best possible purchase of the drugs. Surely, medication is often extremely useful, and we want to be in the front order when it comes to providing these drugs, whether these or others. I was glad to hear it. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon is ashamed, so I also commend him because I specifically took him because I thought he was going well over it, because there was not enough primacy here, and I also say that it should go further in paying off debt. That is very good and natural criticism. This is something we should set goals for which we can agree to reach them. I can agree that we should go further in this regard. Then there's the difference between us in politics. We may not agree on ways to reach this goal, but if we meet together to reach that goal, it will be fine. Also known were investments. The nature of the matter might be said to say that there is no demand for it and that it is important to walk that way. For example, when it comes to transportation, we need to give serious talks about who should pay for the building up when it comes to traveling. Much of this building must be done because we're building a tourist service here, it's the national foundation road. My opinion is that when we travel, we should take part in paying and not just take it out of our country's common funds. Finally, a respectable president, I'd like to say that if it were to achieve any better reconciliation and a better spirit in this hall, it would be wise to postpone this discussion until the discussion is under discussion. It's a legal committee. On the other hand, I urge people to think about these things all the way. We are not going to walk out the way people have spoken here lately. We can't win these things as I think some people speak, as we're going to do here a budget for every year for the next three years. [[The president calls.]] That's unrealistic.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u178	A respectable president. I'm next to the last words that go wrong. The senator believes that it is proper to postpone this discussion until the meeting of the budget committee is concluded tomorrow. I wholeheartedly agree with him. However, I believe, a respectable president, that no one in this room thinks we are discussing accurate financial laws for the next three years. I've said it here in a speech that I don't think it's unnatural that this document is like it's the first time. This must naturally be learned over time. But I'm surprised that there is. The head of the committee was amazed at the fact that some of the discussion had taken place. We're talking about the priorities of the government in financial matters for the next four years. Well, there's a lot of material to discuss, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u179	A respectable president. With the last show, I've either not spoken clearly or clearly. A senator did not pay sufficient attention. I was pointing out that I sometimes liked the discussion - there are very honest exceptions, I'm not going to evaluate the proportion of the conversation - instead of material. The reason why I quoted a talk was overwhelming. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon's son, and that's a man that everyone knows that I'm a very different person, it was that he handled the matter in a very material way. To discuss that, I thought that was a good way to go. Now I completely disagree. A senator, I would have thought it best to discuss this rather than talk about the form. I'm not going to go into any more of that. But I'm not making any comment that we're discussing the state's budget soon and length, a long road away. If we were discussing it that way, I think it would be both useful and important.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u180	A respectable president. Hv. A senator makes comments on how we approach this topic. Who is next to himself, and I've come close to it based on the political emphasis presented in the synonym, where the consumption is reduced. For example, I asked: Is this true of the Agency because the group often speaks in a different direction? I also asked, "Is the forward party holding to the sale of the Lands Bank? " Then we're gonna have a snooze. A senator here - I thank him again for taking the case back on the committee, it's certainly very good for him to suggest that the discussion be delayed - and talk about the past. We've been standing here talking about the future, and this is about the future and the why. A senator talks about the past. It's not much of a sport, Mr. Honorable President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u181	A respectable president. I don't like historians by saying there's no style at talking about the past. However, I decided to take what I thought was to criticize the government, and I cannot discuss it without referring to the tax policy of the last government. They were criticizing the tax policy of the present government and making the taxes that were being referred to as I went over; I went over their origins and why the present government had joined what it has gone into so far, and hopefully it will go further in that direction as the Supreme Government. A government has passed so far. We agree on that, me and what. paritaprevir Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir, that we should discuss these matters materially and deal with them. It's, I think, the principle. If that discussion is objective and factual, it's only very good. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u182	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator is warm to me. I hope that as long as you have it, you will. A senator will read more interviews with me, and more readily he will be able to take my advice on a financial committee. I want to ask you why. A senator whether he's not worried about what I'm doing in Iceland is too small in comparison with the neighboring countries and that it's just described in this financial program, but nothing said about what to do about it. However, the new work done by tourism does not produce much production, but the work being done by Agsar, Marel, and CCP does make a lot of money. Both the work and the funding set up in that company yield a little bit of respect and production, but apparently we can never be sure if they're not leaving the country because of the crown, a swinging currency. I want to ask you why. A senator whether he is not concerned about this development and that governments do not have a clear policy to increase their production in the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u183	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator's concern is that it is important to increase production. I think that includes increasing production in the public sector. I'm of the opinion that we should create a situation for the companies. A fine example of this is that of traveling overseers. It was not politicians who decided that this would be the way it was going and what the situation is now. It is mainly the power and initiative in the people of the country that makes this industry as big as it is. I believe that if we give the individual an opportunity, they can work things out best. Of course, the tax environment of an enterprise can go further. Similarly, we need to emphasize educational issues and other aspects of life. I go around the world, and I don't see the film they paint. Now I'm not a fan of the crown, but I don't think it's worth the picture. At least I can't see the heaven that's in a bigger coin field. In fact, there are very different circumstances.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u184	Mr. President. I see why. However, a member of the council feels that it is important for him to care for well - paying jobs so that they do not leave the country. Of course, if they say that the problem is the currency, the government has to watch that problem. Hv. A senator spoke of the tourist service, that it had grown and prospered. It has certainly paid us a price. But I'd like to ask why. A senator as to the opinion of some economists that it is not good to have the tourism service as one of the main main stakes in the economy and that there are many ways in which they suggest that a tax on a stay that is now the same as the public pays for food is too acceptable to an article that has become so large.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u185	A respectable president. Men who are involved in business activities are often very firm in their views of politics, and I listen to what they say. This does not mean that I take all the things they say and think they are right, since they have very different opinions, and that's a good idea. Hv. A senator named high technology and something like that, I understood why. Thus, and one of the important things, which most of the legal committees have stressed, is that we add the infrastructure when it comes to information technology and all over the country. True, it has to do with not only such innovations but also tourism. I just pointed to reason why. A candidate during the interview in the business magazine that I mentioned in my talk earlier. Whatever it is. A senator said about the merit tax system, I just agree with that. In tourism we have way too many steps, that's unwise. This is true in other sectors. I'd like to see that we're lowering the highest level and dropping the reserves and cutting down the gap. It's the vision I have in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u186	Mr. President. Hv. A senator complained that the council would rather discuss the form than the material. I'm gonna be so mean to use my first answer to come in only in the form. I want to point 'em. A senator's weight has increased quite significantly since yesterday when three major bills were submitted to the council. Whatever it is. Councilmen have been pointing out that they feel that they need to be seen in a committee party, even with a leading party. Now we've got a what? A vice president of the budget agreed to that request, saying that he wants the case to be brought to the committee. However, I would like to take advantage of this opportunity to ask him: " Is he against the fact that this is to be seen in a committee party? Does he feel that it is unnecessary to mention it in a committee list that the criteria have simply changed during the council? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u187	A respectable president. I mentioned it in my speech, and there is also a statement in this document, that the criteria may change. I don't think there's any way we can put up an extension opinion on the short course, even if we're here for the summer I'm expecting as much. I think it's about that, with all due respect for the reason. She is going to get her way by stalling a matter. I was surprised to learn that discussion would be as much as it really was about this plan, so I am now only honest in this regard. It doesn't matter. If, as men have talked about here over and over again, we're going to do a much deeper job than I think I'll call a committee meeting at the age of three. A legal committee, even though they were two or three, to put some notice on what we know we must be on notice. I look at this, as I mentioned, as part of a larger stage of development. This is a good step, but I'm much more excited to take the next step.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u188	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. There's a clear distinction between us. I believe that it is important that, although only for future historians, it is important that the council was not asleep when we brought in big bills, but we will discuss matters in context. Only to the point and to this synopsis proposal as a political policy issue. There's clear evidence that me and him are. When it comes to tax issues, a senator disagrees. I prefer taxes and think they're a very good way to run a community, especially when the interiors of society need income, as I think they are now. I want to ask you why. A member of Parliament: is a man of some kind. A senator disagrees with the need to strengthen the infrastructure? Does he disagree that it needs to be done more in the years to come? [[The president calls.]] Or does he think he has enough work to do in this program? If not, how does he want to go into this deposit if he doesn't have a tax account? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u189	A respectable president. First, just out of form: If we're getting together to put some words on paper without stalling or starting with zero, we'll just do it. It's not my job to find a flat on it. But if it's about getting things together at first, so I'm just talking straight, to slow things down, then I'm not ready for a game like that, so it's just said. The difference between us in politics and those in politics' left, I think, with all due respect, you talk too much about it as just one cake, that it's unchangeable, and then you just have to fight enough about how to split it. I want to bake some more cookies. Of course, taxes are necessary, we do not run a society without them. But I believe that we will not, the politicians. It's the people who work at the free market that makes new ones work. We talked here about high-tech companies, and also about tourism. It is wonderful to see how people have survived in this regard. I see every day, for example, here in Reykjavík, people who read, people who make valuable things, and who render good service to tourists. If you go to the country, there's a whole revolution. [[The president calls.]] We politicians don't do this. We need to create the situation. If we create the circumstances - which are low taxes, fair taxes - we will see the cake baked.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u190	Mr. President. The General has legally obliged the Minister to submit to the council a plan on how he intends to handle the national tax. This is important. The Parliamentary Commission, a financial committee, gets this case, says that they don't have enough time to discuss the matter, to be doing it for the first time, but they don't even exploit the community members who could give the Committee free reviews, to consider this program of fictitious planning on how he's going to use tax money. I don't think it's irresponsible. The committee was on the case for a month. It takes a minimum of a week to get that kind of free opinion from stakeholders in the community on how this strategy minister, on how he's going to handle his tax dollars, looks. The committee can still do this. I'm going to ask the highest. the chairman of the budget board whether he is prepared to send this in the morning and then let this case come up with a review and a deadline for the week so that we can have something in the house. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u191	A respectable president. It's not quite accurate at any time. A senator saying that it's all about the fact that we're handing out tax money because we're doing it in financial terms. As we have also seen, the sound of the law on how accurate this strategy is being practiced is not being observed; many have been ignored. Councilmen are a matter of fact. I don't think it's going to change the big case whether we're sending this up right now. As I mentioned and studied, the committee set priorities in highlighting the public finances that we have been working on for many years. We've had 25 meetings, we've already gone to Sweden. The body board, and it's very important to complete that task. I'm just being honest with you. We just put our priorities into it. Why? With all due respect - materially, all of this is right. A senator says, and he can criticize us for it - we put our energy on public finances. They're important. Then we will be going into a different type of work, in line with what we all say we want to do. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u192	Mr. President. It is respectable that public finances are put first. I agree with the senator that more important matters are being done, too much to be done. The committee's working hard. She is. She meets one of the most committees and is generally well controlled. That's why I think it's very strange. It takes no time for the committee to get a free opinion about how this plan is going to work - it's a plan on how a minister intends to protect his money. This is a plan, and I think it's odd that these free parties in a town should not be used to determine how this plan is, whether it's good, where the defects are, etc. I don't feel responsible it hasn't been done. It is still possible to do so. I really hope tomorrow you'll be taking over a private chairman of the budget board, huh? paritaprevir Gullish Þór Þórðarson, well into our having these free opinions.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u193	A respectable president. I hear what you're saying. A senator says, and we need to agree on how we are going to complete this council. We may be so fortunate that we can sit over it and figure out how we are going to do it. Then, too, we can stay in the place where we've been in a long time when people are in great pits. If people really are interested in getting together about it, then two things are needed, and then we just need to talk about all these things. As the situation is now, plans are very hard to make, no matter what. We are quite late, the nature of the matter, to send out requests once we have brought the case back into the council. On the other hand, if humans are human - what? A member of the body calls the leading committee - on one level, content to do some of these things without having to try to delay the case, I am quite ready to settle over it. [[The Committee to Re-Elect.]] I hope that we will prosper in order to win these things along, and there are now many things to do. [[The president calls.]] But we haven't exactly been at that place lately, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u194	The president has listened to council hearings, ideas that the matter will go back to the budget committee, or at least be accepted there at meetings and wishes that the discussion will not be completed until the hearing has ended. It is thus shown that it is unwise in the situation of emptying a rosary and completing the discussion. As a result, the president wants to take a little stay to evaluate how the conference is being held and pauses this meeting for 10 minutes until 6:30. The meeting is off.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u195	A respectable president. I recommend a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee, case, bill to legalize the changing of income tax laws, public payment laws, tax exchange laws on capital gains, financing laws, customs laws, road tax pay, fuel, etc. and budgets, with subsequent changes (consistent and simplicity). The bill was called to the committee after 2nd. on the matter to allow a review of the current set of validation regulations aimed at the approval of the bill in 2014 and the reference to the regulations of the law No. 142/2013, of the documents relevant to national organisations only in business with other members of the nationalities they are linked and/or are involved in the same process. A discussion in the Committee also suggested that the ratio given in the introduction, an Annex to the Law No. 50/1988, on the value tax, would not be consistent with the system modifications made in terms of last year's worth taxes and the inconsistencies of customs numbers in the same Annex due to changes made on the list of tolls included in Annex I to Tolls, No. 88/2005. The committee discussed the matter and reviewed the above, and the results of the majority of the committee are found in a panel of committees. 1039 and making a change to the deck. 1040. Between the 2nd and the 3rd. The committee was assigned to meet with members of the Department of Financial and Economic Affairs, the Contestant Board, the head of state tax and the Iceland Business Council. I first review some adjustments to the Annex to Law No. 50/1988, of the worthy tax, in line with the system modification of cost taxes. Then the more part suggests that at the bill, a new chapter will be added in one new article, 20. .. where there are changes in terms of worth taxation, No. 50/1988. In particular, the ratio number specified in the introduction team to the legislation is suggested to be adjusted accordingly to the system modifications made at the last year's worthy tax. However, some changes in toll files are provided in the same Annex in line with the changes made on the toll files in Annex I of Tolls, No. 88/2005. Secondly specify the changes, i.e. The changes in toll files, not related to the value of taxation changes taken place at the end of the last year and aim only to restore a list of customs numbers of products for human consumption as specified in the Annex. Qualifications for changes in terms of merit tax laws are found in 17 characters in the 2nd digits of the conversion proposal. I will not be able to trace to toll numbers any more here than interested people can read in the Senate document. Then there is the legal responsibility of national organisations only in business with other members of the national organisations they are linked to and/or in the same context. At a meeting at the Committee to Re-Elect, the C- team was assigned to Article 3. The bill has some criticism. It was noted that the primary objective of the OECD cross-cutting principle was to prevent laterization of provinces between fiscal legislation. It went on to show that it was more reasonable to have less demands on members of the domestic or domestic organisations that they are in agreement with. The greater understanding of the share is that cross-cutting rules are tax policy rules that have the primary objective of responding to the abnormal prices of linked countries, while incentive for such prices may arise because of different national tax regulations. In this way, those associated with law enforcement can see the benefits of trading amongst themselves so that social profits can be obtained where the tax environment is favorable. The situation is different when only business between linked parties takes place within the same state. In such cases, there is not a similar incentive to bring profits through abnormal prices, as local legal agencies are usually taxed in the same way. The majority of the above-mentioned criticisms are justified and suggest that the new case be added c-complid 3. the bill, which will provide a financial basis for the documentation of national legislation to include only business dealings with members who are permanent abroad or who have a fixed employment center outside of Iceland. Although documents are suggested not to be relevant in the trade of related legislation within the country, there is still a requirement for such business practices in the 3 mg per year. 57st. Tax taxes, No. 90/2003, that the prices between linked legislations should be in accordance with the arm length rule. In addition to the above, changes in the bill's value code and its headline are proposed. In view of the above, the greater part suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes made on panels. 1040. Under the headings of Director Frosti Sigurjónsson, Chairman of the United States, Telegrapher Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdótttir, Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, Konráðsdóttir Konásótsdóttt, Pétur H. Bör Blöndal and Willum Þórsson Þorsson, and Guðmundur Steingrímsson, writes in advance. Well, then I've made an explanation of the committee, but now I'm trying to account for the existing proposal from the Economic and Business Committee, which is an adjustment proposal to make for the changes in the budget. 1040 on income tax etc. The adjustment is available on deck. 1382. In short, the motion goes on to withdraw the proposed reduction of the total insurance spending that runs to the equation and reduce the disability burden of pensions. Only in the history of this law: For enforcing law No. 125/2014, for various reasons a budget bill 2015, ran 0.335% of the income to the equation and reduced energy burden. With the law's consent, it was decided on July 1st. This rate decreased to 0.260%. Here it is suggested that these changes be removed from the provision of a general insurance payment that flows to the equation and decreases in the disability burden of pensions so that 0.32% of the total insurance pay will continue to go to an equal rate and the reduction in the disability of pensions. It is suggested that the change be gained when values and also proposed a change in the directive so that a list of laws that change will be added to insurance laws. As noted earlier, this adjustment has been made by all members of the committee. The motion is presented in connection with the government's declaration from May 28 on. the measures to pay for the preparation of collective agreements. The Government's declaration of the arrangements to pay for collective agreements is as follows: ▪ The government will try to retract the decision made on a reduced donation from a government fund to the equation of the low-energy load of pension funds. It has to do with the decision to change insurance. The continued eco-efficiency of dierent funds is important, but it is desirable to find an arrangement based on clear objective reasons, which is sustainable and not dependent on donations on budgets. I'd also like to review that at some committee party more part of the Economic and Business Committee for the 3rd Environment. of the various conditions of budget 2015, the greater part points out the need to review the current framework of the equation and to reduce the number of micro-energy loads that occur first. It is my opinion that if this adjustment is approved, there must be a targeted work in the future structure of the equations of the biofuels that deal with the past problems of funds and that will be considered to a future level of disability burden.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u196	Madam President. I recommend my share of the Economic and Business Committee on this matter at the 3rd Environment. But that which is called hierarchism is with me. paritaprevir The Árni Páll Árnason In itself, it is not something grand that separates us from the greater part. Much of this was the subject, and we are primarily involved in our committee, i.e. Some things that are so called intermediate rules, but we did not have reason to believe that for certain changes, which were originally suggested in the bill itself and, secondly, that the greater part was inclined to make between 2 and 3. Um.....was a good enough argument. So we chose to return a special committee party and to appreciate their views. In the previous layer, this refers to the so-called document code introduced by certain currency boundaries and the thought that to strengthen the cover-up of linked enterprises and corporate partnerships, which are linked to members in this sense, will be added to the so-called documentation. Thus, the law was given in its own time, and the case was terminated after the second. that it should stay inside, but certainly we knew the view that this might be burdensome, especially to smaller ones. There was some pressure on the committee to cancel this paperwork and to follow the role models that people thought they knew abroad that it did not apply when doing business in a country. Now it is clear and true that the main purpose of the documentation obligation is to strengthen the framework of business across borders between Member States, etc. and between different tax laws, but this does not mean that there are documents and clear rules on cross-cutting, natural prices, although trade between linked parties, cannot also serve purpose in domestic rights and domestic business. It may well be reasoned that large kits of linked parties, mothers and several partners or persons with significant properties may be benefited, although they are incompatible, by providing such prices in a special way, temporarily delaying the possibility of tax pay by preferring recovery or profit from one person who may have stored accumulated losses, etc. True, such a business should be on a natural foundation, whether it is the law or not. This does not matter on its own but significantly improves the ability to monitor with normal prices. This trade is required to be documented by the associated parties, and it can be arranged for that document to be looked up at at at at any given time. So the person here did not have the conviction that there was a reason or right to go so far as to cancel these documents completely with regard to nationalities, although, indeed, I would share in the argument that it is more important when dealing across borders. Of course, now such large and large structures are often involved in their activities in some of the markets and markets across the border, perhaps a cross-border drug trade to a local subsidiary that is responsible for the sale, but I do not see that in some of the largest companies or companies within a country that is large and have major activities and have a small cost, possibly stock costs of 2 to 66.5 billion. K. and the annual annual annual costs of about 1◯2 billion. K., will make a difference in the billions or billions of dollars. In our smaller section, we were prepared to move these sizes up, for example, to a length of 5 to 10 billion bucks, 10 to 15 billion dollars. If this were to be divided, and thus, more than a few of the largest areas in the country fell under this, and it could be said that several million stock costs, and in carrying out the required documents, there were a lot to do. I could go on to further evidence to support why it might be useful to apply these documents on the main kits. I can give you two examples that are quite obvious, in the interracial trades of seafood, fishing, in one hand, and then working on another, and in the middle of the trade, there should be trouble. Parliaments are well - known, for it is often at the root of a large debate over the trade of sailors and on the interaction between such integrated parties in the fishing outways, which are separate from fishing and processing, i.e. Non-fishing, hunting privileges, and buying all their raw materials. This interaction has been tricky in recent years and over a long period of time. In recent years, the speaker's reputation as a marine minister knows that there has been a major issue. The demand for further separation and clear policy on price in this trade has been loud from sailors and competitors. Of course, there would be improvements in themselves if the largest of these areas were placed under a very clear rule on the natural price of the business, that they were to submit to an arm length, and that they were to be natural. Another example might be large trading companies, which have significant business dealings with members, relatives or related parties about shopping and/or distributions. Then they are in a position to deal with this company while there is an unplugged supply or other service providers have a different position in this regard. I could not see that the biggest shopping chains, or the two blocks, or three sets, were documents that would result in the failure to explain the rules of the game in this respect and to eliminate suspicions that otherwise are easily exposed to the prices in such cases. For example, we are familiar with this report of the Contestant Board on my situation with these major organisations, etc. This has at least two aspects that can be presented as evidence that more attention should be given to whether there would be a lack of documentation in the trade of linked parties when it involved the largest enterprises in the country. Of course, I know that it should be handled in other laws and, of course, in the taxological sense as well as in the views I have given here, that it should be handled on a natural basis. All things are true in itself, but the duty of the law is not without reason. It is an effort to improve the handling of these matters, certainly especially that people do not use the interrelated trades or partnerships to improve taxation between countries. This may be its main purpose in European rights, but it can also become a tax gate or a tax payment within a country in such a business. It can not be overlooked, it can lead to a profit produced at a certain time and should be an tax exchange, e.g. in the mother-mate of the kit, moves down, in effect, to some subsidiary society with no more losses, the tax pay may be delayed, the company may change the circumstances, the profit of temporary living where there is no profit, even loss, and, in reality, would form a shelter so that the tax payments that did not come about at the right time would either later or could never be presented as actual tax returns. I know it's gotten a little messy, but in view of my player knowledge of this, and since I know the wisdom of people, various people, in the use of a few ways to pay as little as possible to society, unfortunately, I'm going to indulge these views. The other thing that we in the memory of the section makes it possible for a subject, in fact, to comment, was the surprising conclusion that in the bill it is assumed that a legal reference to the cross-cutting regulations of the OECD Environment and Development Agency will be removed from the law. This is a bit surprising because, for not more than a year ago, it was specifically recommended by the managers and visitors that it would be very good to legalize a reference to the economic and economic standards because it would be helpful to have the law to give them, in fact, such a position. But now the conclusion has been to remove the reference from the law, i.e. The more part suggests this, including the results. with the argument that they will still be used to explain an explanation of the assessment of intermediate rules or to correct prices, that they will still take the rules if they need to intervene and say that prices are not normal, they should be performed but should not be done like this, as per the cross-cutting rules of the OECD. Why not keep them in the law? I've heard no argument that there is a problem in any way. I have no legal problem with referring to them as is done in the current law so that I am not fully convinced of the change. This is the second factor that we make in the memory of the section, making comments that lead to a special committee party. Then I'm just going to step up some of the changes that have been made to a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee and the rest of the Committee. First, there's an adjustment motion on it. 1040 and strategist, w. paritaprevir Little Anna Sævarsdóttir, made a good account of her. It consists of a change in references to certain articles and percentages of the law on merit taxation and is adjusted to some of the changes that springed from those in the same legislation before the end of the year. Then, as we know, there were significant changes in the law and structure of a valuable tax. The other one's so fixed on some toll code number, huh? Senators can study it on a panel's committee, and I do not see in themselves a reason to spend much powder on that subject. Of course, these are just normal fixes, no reason to have a subject analysis on this, so although the adjustment is moved by a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee, we do not in itself declare opposition to it. However, in an Annex to the Law, a change in the proportion of 7 to 11 was made when the food tax was increased so that, as might be asked, would this change have been fully set up on law, in order that at a certain site in the law it continued to the lower level of the cost tax should be 7%? As a result, the lower level was transferred to 11 percent. Then, however, there is an adjustment in the motion. 1382 which is transported by a total Economic and Business Committee. It is opened, though it is at 3 C.E. Um, insurance policy. This has become a handsome bandworm, so to speak, for which the bill's heading has to be extended, this has become a change in income tax laws, public payment laws, tax subsidies laws on capital gains, tax taxes, customs, road tax pay, fuel laws, later reimbursement laws, remuneration laws, and finally no. 113/1990 on insurance bills, with subsequent changes. All of this needs to be picked up in the bill's headline. The reason that this adjustment proposal is being made by the whole committee is the joy of news that the government finally saw with its plans to impair or eliminate the involvement of the state in the equation of the disability of pensions through insurance fees, as has been done with the people of the past few years. In the fall of the year, it revealed that this donation, which, if I remember correctly, would be dropped in constant steps over the next four years. This brought much attention and criticism to many, especially because it was found that it was one of the several entirely monophasic measures that the government intended to take on factors that have always been in some way a joint coverage of the State and the labour market bodies, in this case in the case of the pension fund. This has sometimes been the case, and the government's payment has been compromised, e.g. During the most difficult years, but never did the State disappear from contributing as much money as it has done for many years now to this level of disability of pensions. So that's what we've been through lately, 0.335% of the insurance market. Then, Madam President, this is close to 4 billion, if I recall correctly, because it is not long since the pay line in this country, the insurance company, was about 1st of you. So each percent would be 10 billion and each one of 0.1% close to 1 billion, more likely now, so here we are talking about a considerable amount of money. It's not the main thing. It's the other thing, that this goes to the equation of the disability funds in such a way that those with the largest energy load get the most. First of all, it goes to the funds that have a very high energy burden, where disability improvements are a high percentage of the fund's payments. If these funds did not come along, it is clear that the rights of their funds would be significantly inferior to others. What are these funds? Yes, Madam President, these are the hard work funds. These are seamen, farmers, traders, and other professions that do risky jobs where accidents are very high, and the incidences of disability, according to the nature of the case. An example of such a fund is Stpi's pension fund in the North and East, and it's not surprising from where the funds are located. The energy load is very heavy there, and it would have resulted in a marked decrease in the rights of all partners in the pension fund if the state had disappeared from this equation at the time of the appointment. I think we've got calculations about it, good if it wasn't a high 10 percent impairment that would have led to it. Of course, this cannot be considered normal. On the contrary, I believe that the exact equation of different microenergy burden is a very good operation into the whole pension fund because it balances in this respect, and it goes to most of the public pensions. If not, their situation would be different from the rest of the general pension fund and the public part of the pension system would be even greater. I don't think we can hold on that way. On the contrary, over the past few years much work has been done to try to reach out for all the pension rights in the whole country, uniting it together into a unique development system. It doesn't necessarily mean one pension fund, but it means in English that people will try to get their rights up in the general funds so that they can approach what is in the public funds. There have been some suggestions on how this might happen, even with some involvement in the state over a period of time, e.g. by linking with collective agreements over a few years, further pay-offs for public life funds so that they approached what is in the public funds. There is no need to debate how good it would be in the labour market to make the pension system more uniform, as well as the pension rights process so that it would not be a cause for quarreling when it comes to contracts and terms, but all the people of the country had as much as they would like it. I think it's right for men to keep in mind when discussing this matter. In other words, the decision has now been made to fail. In fact, thanks to the progress here, there is probably some considerable opposition that existed in the fall and up until Christmas, criticism by the labor movement specifically and the labour market parties and the government was expected to disappear from plans to legalize the total declines in four years, allowing the contributions to disappear in the first quarter of the workforce, and even so that they were not to take effect until July 1 until the second, July but to hold a permanent lower percentage, 0.260 instead of 0.325. This adjustment will restore it and remain unchanged. It is a cause for rejoicing. I can say that it's natural for people to want to talk about this. Are these equations to the future on the same basis, or are humans to predict that they will somehow be different? My advice would be that they would not be able to communicate, though at least while talking is still being done, and someone works to cover all the pensions in the future. Of course, it's about many aspects of this equation, development and balance, as I mentioned, of course, of course also the way the state intends to keep commitments to the public funds and, in particular, the B department, so it's a huge deal. It is one of Iceland's larger issues for the future how these projects work. In the past few years, however, the lid has been kept on, and discussions have been going on about the future state of the country. They have been slow, in fact, far too slow. I don't have any of this accurate news in the last two years, but I worked so far that I would have liked to see it go further. Of course, the matter is very large, and the circumstances at that time were difficult to take on major action in this area. Finally, Madam President, I was going to make the subject of a transition to the river. 863 away. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson. He has suggested, of course, that I heard of being called back but I intend to make my point of view of it, that there would be a change to 1st. Ninety-eight. The word of the law goes like this: ▪ When the government tax manager has completed the pressure on taxpayers, let him make a statement to every tax tax paid by the taxpayers who have been assigned to him. At the same time, the tax manager should be thoroughly advertised, including ... ina law-engineering sheet. That's when the stress's over. If taxpayer's due year other than the calendar year, the government tax manager should be replaced by the Second Amendment Advertisement Act. Then the government tax manager shall send the relevant body tax collector a record of the persons who have been taxed, as well as a copy to the public accountant. Of course, this could work out, I don't doubt it. Hv. In this regard, a senator has done this well technically, but what would happen is that public release and production and taxation would be replaced in the current form of the country. So I am quite simply opposed and have long been. I believe that the exact part of the holding of these materials is the public display of the stress and tax file so that people can see in white how the income distribution was in the country and that the normal discussion of it is done. What secret should that be? There is enough in itself, however, and a wide range of conditions, which may not always be available information on the workplace or elsewhere, although there is also a secret covering of human exposure and tax pay. I could, in no way, support that suggestion, and strongly encourage members of the council to destroy it if it had yet to come up with a vote. Of course, this has been handled many times before. A certain group has at times spoken against these revelations. I don't know if we're going to hear that point in the discussion, but, fortunately, there has always been an agreement to not retreat in these chemicals, but to publish the tax file exactly as has been done in Iceland for a very long time. It contains a great deal of information for the common people. He receives information about how society is put together in pay, income, and tax pay. There is a holding in the absence of exposure, depending on incidents, we can say, too little pay, those in a position to do so, and pay what was called in an old maid's oath, to be very busy men in the business business business or men who are very involved in personal consumption, and who all look to being ashamed if they know that it would be publicized if they felt that it would be a cheap pay. We know that some are in a position to influence the way the reward is mentioned. They will always have the strength to do so because it is revealed. It wasn't particularly fancy, at least not in my places where I'm raised, if the most paid men in the community benefit their tax returns so that they paid for a maid's answer. And then vice versa, it's very important for the people to see if any tops in society take over. Why should it be kept secret if people in the financial system or some large business ventures in their own budgets, their requests, and what they are now? Should this also be kept quiet? Is it not to be held by public release when it comes for taxation? Yeah, I think so. I strongly recommend that this proposal be administered as a vote. This is what I wanted to say on this matter, a respectable president. Even if we are doing so, we are not making mistakes for ourselves. paritaprevir Páll's Árnason years have the viewpoints that led to our returning a special - committee party. We will probably not then support the subject of the bill, which is bent on canceling the paperwork, which is primarily 1. 1040 that we don't agree with, and at least I won't vote with him.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u197	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator a very detailed discourse on a language that is somewhat extensive and not very accessible to us who have not been discussing it on a financial and business committee. I wanted to ask you what. A senator on the paperwork. In a paper with the bill, about 3. .., says, with President's permission: The provision suggests the removal of guidelines for OECD for the cross-cutting process. It is also suggested that the legislators are no longer linked in the sense of the law because of the property or administrative authority of individuals associated with financial ties through mutual business and investments. Nevertheless, the price of a business venture that could have fallen under the law must always be in harmony with an arm's length, cr. General rules 1 and 2. 57st. income taxation shapes Now I want to ask you why. Senator: Why are you changing the definition of related sources? For us who remember and define a topic-related discussion, these rules are rather uncomfortable. I just want to know if there's any reason to be cautious. I ask the senator's opinion of what he thinks is hanging over there on that stick.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u198	Madam President. With regard to the cross-reference rules and the reference to OECD, I have already made quite clear in my speech that we simply do not believe that we have heard convincing evidence to end this. I've never heard of a problem with the fact that the reference was in the law, so I don't understand why it's done, I don't quite understand it. If anyone has any reason to end this, I'd like to hear them. I don't remember ever having them on the committee, just the argument, that's all. With regard to the relationship and partnerships and the paperwork, this is really a twofold question, and on the other hand, the question is to define the connection. I just have to admit that I may not quite remember, unless I have enough time to recall it a bit, what exactly the changes we were making on this nature of relationships. I thought it wasn't to decide that all such persons were not connected, but to change only the definition, because that's the other problem, of course. Where do you draw the line, what shall be counted among the party? There is no doubt that if property ties are so strong that there is a link between them. If the dominant item is present, they're linked. But it has become more hairy when it comes to answering the question about the inadequacy or management or the impact of one person, possibly an impact, of another's business to be classified as a link in this sense of documentation. That's what's been wrestling there. It was likely then that the idea of making the paperwork no more burdensome was to push away such a minor relationship. So it just takes the whole thing to make a major difference when the major part finds out that they're moving the adjustment into the roof. 1040, the first number, which simply says: There is no relevant need for trade between linked legislations when all members are home to the country. Period. In that case, if all documents are held here on the country, no matter how linked the parties are, they will fall apart.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u199	V.E.G. President. If I understood why. A member of the council rights is changing the law recently established here. Then I ask: Why was that law recently established? Like what? A senator points out that these changes are being made longer and that they do not keep the documentation related to them. I just repeat the question, why? What is the basis for this? Is this not an example of this: Here are members of Congress changing laws that often involve complex aspects of the cover-up in which the Council does not have an enormous vision? Are people completely aware of what these changes will mean, and what potential they offer?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u200	Madam President. The family history is such that here is the induction of European rules, the cover-up rules that we have an obligation to adopt in the EEA Court. Most would agree that it is a progressive step to implement here a clearer or clearer interstate than ever before. Then comes the question of how to introduce and how far - reaching this rule should be. This was incorporated into a business relationship, both within the country and across the border, over certain markets. Apart from the least of the parties, it was always the meaning, but it may not be a major concern that the market is a great deal, nor does it mean to reciprocate from taxes or other ills, even though the smaller members of a very small number are not under such circumstances, would be more burdensome to them. Then there was the view of making this crazy by perhaps reducing just what might be considered related to a group in this sense. Such links are being discussed in many other areas in competitive legislation, in the fish control laws, and elsewhere; not all of them are used in the same definitions of relation. This would likely have meant that there were several sources of documentation, this narrower definition of commitment. But then, there has been a decision to improve and simply to cancel the paperwork with all nonborder transactions. This ultimately involves our doubts or mine. I don't have the conviction that there is a reason to go so far that there must at least not be any of the largest companies in the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u201	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss this bill to legalize the law on income taxes, public payment laws, local taxation laws on financing, financial tax laws, tax laws, tax laws, payment of vehicles, fuel, etc. and the laws on the cost of equipment, with subsequent changes. It is primarily consistent and simple. Hv. paritaprevir Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir, head of the majority wing whale. The economic and business committee, was well reviewed and the changes being made, but should be able to handle 1st. conducted here at the Assembly Hall of 6 November 2014. At the same time, it did. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon explains my section of the committee or the material between the tails. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon. paritaprevir The Árni of Páll's great - year Árnason, both of whom are in trouble. The Economic and Business Committee. This difference is shown in the modification form here and facing the documentation obligations. Otherwise, members of the Committee agreed on other aspects of this bill. What I'm going to do here as a review is paragraph 18. The bill involved in the change of law No. 29/1993, on the product charge of vehicles, fuels, etc., with subsequent changes. Comments of the original bill say, with the permission of the President: The a-A team is suggested to remove from all doubt that the conditions of staging prices as required by the regulations are that cars are equipped with a wheelchair lift or a similar set of equipment. A similar device is for making courses and a specially prepared seat with a rotation or lift device. The B - force is then proposed to remove from all doubt that four wheels, six wheels, tollars, golf cars, and bets, including motors, carry 30% fees according to Article 4. The law. Therefore, the instruments will be listed in the law. If the bill is by law, it is well spoken of. A respectable president. Comments were made to the bill from the Autosave of a land relationship between the disabled, signed by Bergur Benjamínsson, who was scheduled for the Ministry of Health, to build new rules on the disabled. The bill we're about here is one part of the work where there's a down payment on the product fees of disabled persons, and it says that there's not enough information for the changes involved in the bill. A comment that I quote is asked to be added to the report so that there will be no doubt. This comment failed at a committee party under the heading: because of the automobiles of disabled persons who are free of charge. I'm going to review it here and read it on the same page, with President's permission: ...at the 18th. The bill is suggested that there be no doubt that it is conditional for the collapse of automobiles specifically equipped to transport people in disabled persons, as per m-involved rule 1. correct the product of road vehicles, fuel, etc., that they have a wheelchair lift, or other similar equipment. As I came to, a respectable president, it was, in a review given to the committee, that concerns over the fact that lifts, ramps, elevator seats, and elevators for people who themselves drive are considered to be similar to wheelchair lifts. The understanding of the Committee is that this equipment is an example of equipment that falls under the term'svidential equipment'; I'm reviewing this here, Mr. Honorable President, it was the collective opinion of the Committee that this is being taken with no doubt that such equipment is involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u202	Madam President. It is undeniably disappointing, Madam President, that there has been a meeting of the heads of the clans and that a discussion about the end of the council has really not been delayed in the past week. I expected this -- after the government's possession had repeatedly declared itself ready to sit down at the table, and in action as shown on Sunday night when the opposition was not going to end here an important matter related to decommission - that the government had something to move on to see how we're going to complete Congress. Now, Madam President, the government has no such vision, so things are still completely trapped. It is a tremendous disappointment, Madam President, that the government still plans to resolve all its issues, even those that have not yet arrived. Madam President. We're ten days past our protocol. There's no way we're going to complete Congress. There is no play on the part of the council, and that, Madam President, is a tremendous disappointment. This is not how you can proceed. I suggest that this meeting be postponed so that the heads of the clans are forced to sit down and get some agreement on how we're going to finish this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u203	President. It was with considerable follow-up that we were finally able to assemble a premonial meeting that was promised yesterday by members of the council. I thought that it was because the government groups were preparing a game, that it was about for them to bring something to the meeting. But it was nothing, a respectable president, who the government groups brought to the meeting except the same rigidness that has been the last few days and the last few weeks, in fact. You would have thought that it would be wise, only political, and that the government groups would know it, to make good use of the social rhythms, in terms of emissions and plans there, to complete the council. But there seems to be no desire. I don't see any better, Mr. Honorable President, but this meeting needs to be postponed to try to get another conversation and that the heads of the classes sit at the table to try to put together strings, because this is not working. It doesn't make sense to continue meeting together as long as the situation is the way it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u204	V.E.G. President. I'm also going to request that a meeting be delayed or terminated and that the meeting be announced again when it is time to arrange for the end of the council. The Council's plan has long been expired, and we are here in disorganization, with no one knowing what matters to be planned and how things are done. I'd like the President of the Generals to take over the Council, not to be given over to the governors, but to represent all of us here in this hall as a member of Congress. It's an intolerable situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u205	Madam President. How disappointing it was to hear that the members of the government and the chairman of the Independence Party had set up empty - handed officers! To tell you the truth, I had high hopes that men would have a chance to put aside their differences or to work on them some solution before going to work these important traditions that are going to start a discussion about here tomorrow. But it isn't. I'd like to ask for a president - too long to let the Senate get out of hand, let me say, keep it out of control, let it get a lot more conflict, just say, "Here, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I ask him to say that to those who control the highest. Government. I ask him to say, "Here and no further, we'll end this meeting, and we won't set aside another meeting until the priorities are resolved and the government is aware of what they want to do at this council and what they don't do." [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u206	A respectable president. Yesterday, members of the council met with the president of the council. United States Parliamentary presidents represent us as members of the Parliament. It is not as if it mattered to six members of the council what is going on here or to four members of the House of Government. It's all about us. I have reason to believe that negotiations were under way that were made with our representative with the council president. A respectable president. I'm not going to ask that this meeting be terminated, I insist. I demand that a meeting be terminated until it is time for us to complete our council work here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u207	Madam President. It was sad news. You can feel it on the air. A lot of people were waiting both excited and impatient, hoping that something would be going on; when people sat together for a good time, you were more expecting better news than nobody, and unfortunately, they did not. If you want to ask for a good weather for a bill that measures before tomorrow, so that it can be in the atmosphere they deserve to be, I can't see that anything else is possible except to end this meeting tonight and give people a chance to go through that matter and prepare for tomorrow instead of meeting here until the night, and then some should meet with a firemen at a committee meeting in the morning. It matters, if it's stressful to measure tomorrow's bill for a stable tax bill, that it gets into a different atmosphere than it is here today when people are generally angry and disappointed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u208	Madam President. What is missing here at this workplace - before people start dealing with the emissions of Hash, which is scheduled tomorrow - is consistent. It is necessary for people to work peacefully, calmly, and together in order to do this work. It's been happening since yesterday that the government stand, the less part of the council, will be doing their part in that work. It's very complicated, of course, to make deals. A certain tune is needed. It also takes the will, a respectable president, to resolve matters. It is not enough, when men have set up meetings here, that they come from the parties in a willing spirit at meetings and try to find reasons to blame the memory of the fact that they are not ready to participate in the solution. [[The president calls.]] This requires another announcement to a meeting, Madam President, and to continue. [[The president calls.]] There's nothing else that'll do in this situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u209	Madam President. As noted, we are ten days past the work schedule, and here we are still on standby and nothing happens. This is no sign of great negotiations here in the front door of this councilhouse. You ask yourself: " Do I need help from outside the U.S. I don't like it if the directors of the board are just about to give up on their decision. We are this morning on a program deal to be reasonable in view of the fact that we are coming to a conclusion on these matters. Then there's a meeting, and nothing comes out of him between the presidents. They just came to that meeting with their heads and say, "Yes, we don't do anything." [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u210	President. You don't need to have been in Congress for a long time, or have long been watching the Senate, to know that it's been a year since then that when it comes to Congress, the chairman of the board, has to sit down with the government officials and negotiate the end of the council. We've all tried what is sitting here and standing. What is unusual now is, first of all, how long this seems to take, how far beyond the occasion, and how clearly the problem is. One is that the government's policy is to negotiate with the government, the second, that the two groups on the board agree on some objective of the agreement with the government. Now I want to pray, because here against me is the other reason. The procurator of the Independence Party, my Ragnheiður Ragnheðinsdóttir, to try to get it started first and interrupt the Senate.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u211	A respectable president. It is more important than tears that the government does not care to try to determine the priorities of the government. We separated from the heads of the administrations last week on Thursday, preomining that they would determine what they wanted to do with the 74 cases that lie before the council. It's not time to finish all of them, even though we were meeting until the fall. They have to decide what they're going to finish. They came empty-handed to a meeting earlier. It is quite simply so that the council is not a tool to move the opposition to the government in an effort to get the sense of government. V.E.G. At the end of her last term, the president of Ásta Ragnheiður, Jóhannesdóttir, created here a very fine example when she refused to announce a meeting because the State Department had no vision of how he was going to complete the council. It was just a good example. I must be calling for the Senate president to stop hosting a meeting. It is totally pointless while the government sector is not prepared to put it to the bottom of what he wants to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u212	A respectable president. I don't quite understand the situation. There are major issues going into the council tomorrow, issues we agree more and less that need all our attention. The political community is about taking these matters seriously and trying to produce them. So, what are we talking about here day after day? They're having us discuss such issues as those that were then canceled, a government budget that obviously did not pass at all, and there was no theoretical possibility to follow through. Observers have seen and decomposed the subject and referred it to a committee as we called it to do some of the more practical. What now? We just keep going as if nothing had happened, and people aren't even ready to sit down and talk to us about priorities. A respectable president. This assembly is completely out of control. They don't know what they want. There is no idea because there is no way out of regard for this government and this government. Or that humans are completely incompetent to handle matters and examine the overall picture. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u213	President. The situation is that we expect to be able to start a discussion about the problem called tomorrow at 1: 00 p.m. Now it is now past nine o'clock in the evening, and nothing has happened to agree on the end of the council, which, for that matter, is in harmony with the discussion of these important matters so that it is important that there is not a direct conflict and a difficult situation in the council during this discussion. This is important because of enormous interest, not just here at the Senate Hall, but also at the moment. The Economic and Business Committee, when she gets the case discussed. It is a responsible part of the administrative body to adjust the media not to allow us to see the end of our Senate work but to act in such a war. I challenge a respectable president to complete a meeting and resolve just to make peace here, between the government and the government's stand before tomorrow's assembly starts at 1 o'clock. [[The president calls.]] There's an enormous amount of interest in Iceland that it can be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u214	A respectable president. I attended a meeting of the district conventions, quoted here. My understanding of him was twofold: First of all, the president told members of the House that he would welcome a meeting with the officers today in an effort to make peace in the end of the council. Second, members of the council agreed that a congregation meeting began at ten o'clock and lasted about twelve and the discussion of the two primes yesterday presented began at 1 p.m. and would have intervening until the end of the day. I did not hear the words, a respectable president, and therefore, I believe that no one has gone back on his words, that there must be an agreement between presidents. A meeting was planned, and we know that we will no doubt need a few more meetings to reach a conclusion regarding the priorities we would like to have. But that someone has betrayed or betrayed trust or has walked behind his words, that is wrong, a respectable president. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u215	Madam President. It seems to me that there's a problem with the government parties. It seems that the Specialist Party and the Independence Party, the highest. Ministers Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson and Bjarni son of Benediktsson, cannot agree on the kind of list they're going to put in the middle of the cuttery. Of course, it is a concern when the problem is absolute. But I strongly agree that we will not be held in this assembly until this agreement is reached and we are here at the General legislature, the legislature agreement, will be sheltered from this indiscretion. It is the responsibility of the president to observe the respect of the council, not to make some kind of show to cover the government's incorruption.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u216	A respectable president. There's nothing in this situation that's surprising. While some of us were sitting here, while the presidents were meeting, and of course I'm just speaking for myself, but you've really lost your faith that anyone wants to do it on the part of one of the board trying to start some meaningful conversation. You're starting to experience events like this earlier meeting as some sort of joke, like this list of 74 cases, like you're being mocked and mocked. Councilmen. That's how you're starting to experience the situation here, a respectable president. I agree with that. Congress is out of control. A respectful president should take matters into his own hands, stop being controlled by the two government soldiers. You could also have the highest. Especially when the prime minister comes to the house, leaping down here, talking to us like an adult.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u217	V.E.G. President. You think a lot about how it's said that you're calling members of Congress together to try to finish things and always expect the other person to come up with the solution. The government groups seem to have no idea if they don't have to get it all through. Could it be that this is the reason why business agreements have not been made by government employees, that people do the same way, do nothing, do not participate, do not participate, wait for others to submit to their will? That's too bad, but you can think of it. People who have nothing to do with meetings are not prepared to settle matters. I challenge the highest. President to stop the meeting, wait and order the board to arrive at a conclusion. We hear it here in the tunnel over and over, there's been a whisper in our ears: Don't let this case go through. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u218	President. I'm still offended. At five o'clock, I finally approached the head of the Independence Party and asked why there had not been a meeting. We've been waiting here all day and nothing's gonna happen. It was already done. There was a meeting at six o'clock, and we just went quite positive into that meeting. We really thought we were getting together. It's amazing, it's amazing that we're going to be accused of setting up the matter tomorrow in a series of conflicts if we're not ready to accept that there has been no work to settle the matter. Of course, we do not want this issue to be a problem, but in order to prevent it, I would like this meeting to be terminated already so that negotiations can be made and some reasonable solution to the situation at this workplace. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This isn't an option, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u219	Madam President. I reiterate my opinion and motion to end this meeting. I don't think there's any reason to keep meeting in view of the situation being completely upset. As I told you before, Madam President, it's amazing that more than a week went by and nothing moved on, once ten days have passed since the Council's program ended. We've taken everything out of the box, a board, and anything else, because things were supposed to be packed up and trying to work things out. But there has been no more parts here at Congress on priorities, no emphasis. That's right, as a matter of course. People have said that we are even told that there is a conflict between the ruling parties. Meanwhile, the General continues to act like some kind of theater, just continuing to show without knowing where he will end or interrupt the show. [[The president calls.]] Madam President. It's morning's light that we're supposed to break up and give people a chance to get together. [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. The president has to put pressure on the directors of the administrations to complete matters here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u220	A respectable president. We all know it's not enough to have a meeting, we need a meeting. We all know that. Then I suggest, more distinguished President, that this meeting will be terminated and the meeting will be held at ten o'clock, and if necessary, another meeting will be held at twelve o'clock, and then the meeting will be held no later than eight in the morning. You might want to have a meeting at 7:00 and then a half at ten or a half because we're supposed to be attending a council meeting about ten. Four meetings have been held. Then perhaps it is time for the government to present the issues he would like to complete before the end of the council. A respectable president. It is not possible to use this important issue to discuss tomorrow in order to control the situation of government and to go back to what has been promised, i.e. that these days be a time for the end of our council work here in the summer. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u221	Madam President. I think every man sees it doesn't work like this. This meeting must be interrupted or suspended until the morning. I've been working on this list of issues, and I've studied these 74 cases. I allow myself, Madam President, to state that, apart from two major cases of mackerel and frame, there are more cases of conflict between the parties than between government and government. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] If this conflict between the parties has not yet occurred, and it has become clear at this prefect meeting, then it is clear that people need time to talk to each other and land. How on earth are we to communicate matters that would like to bring peace here if our government groups have not even landed? This isn't going to work, Madam President. This meeting must be terminated.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u222	President. I think that more than often, I don't ever say, it's really important how this Presidential thing here at the council reacts. On the other hand, the key to solving this double problem, between government and government opposition, and between the members of the administrations, has no one but the president of the council. These are negotiations and negotiations, such as signs and signs of great importance. What has happened here today? As I see it, people have been discussing a judicial case that was technically defective, which was actually out - of - date. It is happening that the vice president of the committee that agrees with taking the matter back into a committee at the celebration of government opposers. The next thing you know, we're talking about the income tax business. Do governmental opposers meddle in this matter, such as in an exorbitant form? No. There are two now on the rosary, and it seems that the matter will end only in the usual and traditional manner. [[The president calls.]] What happens then? So the President will receive his discipline here at the council? No, he's going to continue a meeting here until midnight tonight.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u223	A respectable president. The discussions about the end of the council focus on the making up of members of Congress the right to speak in certain matters. If the work programme is completed by 74 cases, then the contracts are made up of the right to speak in certain matters. Now these matters are divided, so some of them are agreed on, all agree on them. Some have to be completed because there are dates. Others, therefore, have disagreements about them. Some of these issues are such that there is a disagreement between the parties on how to complete them. That's when people don't come back again to a conference for the end of the council and are trying to get 74 issues through. Nobody's ready to do that. Then there must be another way. Now the government has shown that she is prepared in a very responsible way to solve the nation's most important interests here. [[The president calls.]] Then something must come back from the government. You don't do anything for anyone who doesn't do anything for anyone.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u224	Madam President. It is sometimes said that it is beneficial to strive to identify and understand the opponent's feelings. I've been wondering what the government's going through, how she's thinking about her position in this relationship. On Sunday and Sunday evening, the government's situation responded well and quickly handled an important matter in order to pay for the further exorbitant reimbursement. Tomorrow is the time to discuss two giant cases after the shortest possible notice, after they've been here two nights, about execution. In the community, there is growing discussion that there may be a legal intervention. The government expects the council to run it through, etc.? How does the government feel about it, that it needs an agreement and cooperation, or is it the other way around? Does the government mean that we have to lie down in the dust before it and beg for some agreement? I just don't get it. It is so early for any man who has any minimal experience in politics that it is the government that is responsible for a minimum agreement here so that at least something will be done. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u225	A respectable president. I can't remember the last time that ten days had passed without any validation of the work schedule, that there was no room for Congress to be done after that time. In my naive simple mind, I thought that we were waiting for this sanatorium and that's why the council was let down. Now they are here, but they are not going to sit down and decide what subjects to put into place and what subjects to make priorities. What the hell's going on? Do you expect us to sit here just to sit here tomorrow and start discussing the problem, just like that in a bloodbath, and people start working that case with some real thing? Working like that, a respectable president. You need to sit down and examine this whole thing. Men who cannot look at the bigger picture and have some perspective should not rule a whole country. It's just that way. We have such men at the helm, men who cannot handle the task of looking above the stage and setting priorities and making decisions based on the bigger picture. [[The president calls.]] This is the sad fact that we live here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u226	A respectable president. This situation is something so pathetic and incomprehensible. When I'm trying to explain it to the people around me - who are asking when the council is over, and of course I don't know anything about it - I've explained it so that we're trying to knock at the highest level. Prime Minister Davíð, the son of Gunnlaugsson, asked: "Do you want to be mem? They're gonna knock the door on our nose, and we're gonna run into this councilroom and we're gonna complain. It's just the way it is. They don't want to be a tip, and what are we going to do? We're just gonna stay here this summer, says the whole thing. Where's the rest of it? I think many people are doing something else, even going abroad. But it's no big deal to throw away the fact that we'll only be here this summer, they know it's the smaller part that's gonna be here this summer. A respectable president. This is not welcome.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u227	Madam President. This sucks. How true that is! This is something that you cannot explain to yourself or to others, for the conduct of the two government presidents is incomprehensible. I think it's time for them to make peace. I think it's obvious that this is nowhere until the two of them make an agreement. I'm telling you, as I was told earlier, I thought these big cases were being waited on. It was shown that once they had come forward, another form of agreement might be available to complete a council. I call for Einar Kristinn TheGuðfinnsson to come here and decide to end a meeting tonight if he wants to have some knowledge of past history tomorrow. It's clear that it can't be that they want that case in the discussion here tomorrow in this atmosphere, it just can't be. A respectable president. The work programme is referred to as being adjourned. People say, "We can work here as long as we want. " This is like a school principal saying to teachers: " School days are over, but we're going to keep going. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u228	A respectable president. Thus, on account of one of the members of the board, the forward party, or rather his alleged leadership, efforts are made to keep the council occupied and frustrated; from time to time, to give it to the finger, as it is said in modern languages, i.e. Just to make sure that you have something to talk about. But then they don't care, Mr. Honorable President, they just don't care about all of this. I don't think they care. I think all they're up to is show the council how much they can do. I think that's what it's all about at the forward party. The independent party remembered, I think, is better able to handle things. It's like what happened. 6th. Reykjavík District of the South said earlier: "You don't do anything except do something. - This could be such a saying or something.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u229	Madam President. I feel that once again we're being dragged on our asses, against our government, and it's not a fun place to be in that situation. I think it's the highest. The president should end this meeting and put pressure on the directors of the board that they try to negotiate on this matter. The most difficult things are in the world. Everyone knows what a big issue is talking about and what's up. It's the frame and the mackerel, first and foremost. You can't continue meetings that don't have any meaning, it's just crossing in the hatch after a meeting has been held. They don't bring anything bitive into such a meeting, out on it works it. I think it's a betrayal to hold such a meeting when people never really come into these meetings to solve the situation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u230	A respectable president. The last thing I'm going to do is stand in the way of my problems, just so they're told. I just think that the greater part, that the government, is even in a program and is trying to get the council up, by not meeting, late and finally, having no subject, no means of solution. Do they want to come over and discuss the problem with the council in an upset way so that they can teach the less part not to cooperate, or what? It's become such a melancholy atmosphere that you've come to believe everything. That's not good. Not much of our community trust is involved. A respectable president. I suggest that a meeting be terminated, that we import the president of the Swedish Parliament or the Danish Council, someone who has experience in having people talk to each other. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Take the front, hear.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u231	V.E.G. President. I know of my work as the president of the Generals for the Supreme Court. A president who sits behind me has no authority to end the meeting unless he agrees with the President who is here at all, the highest. President Einar Kristinn Guðfinnsson of God. I think it's important that he sit down and it's decided. What's embarrassing about this is that they had a president's meeting earlier and the highest. Even the prime minister was not at that meeting. He's not negotiating. Won't be any part of it. Why not? Perhaps because he is incompetent to do so, that recognition has not been made. But we are in this strange situation when there is every reason to work at moving things forward. That's the only way we'll ever be able to settle the situation and set our priorities until the summer, what we're going to do before we leave the chamber.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u232	V.E.G. President. I have a simple question: How is it that men seem to be progressively extending the council? Do they think that this arrangement, to let men speak here to one, is to shorten the council? Or make our work here more specific? It is so obvious to all who are following this discussion that it has a counteracting effect. What is it we're trying to do, the government side? We're trying to negotiate some very controversial cases here at the council. Everyone knows who they are. We wish for practical suggestions that could lead us to finish our council here during the summer. And we are ready to sit over such solutions. V.E.G. Mr President, I'm asking, "What is the cause of the Council Board's government being involved in this puzzle? "
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u233	Madam President. After a good ride into town, I expected that I would be able to sit here and listen to the council program. Hv. paritaprevir The Ögmundur of Jónasson came up and asked why they were holding up the council, and now we've been listening to talks here for 45 minutes about the President's conference board. Then I'm just asking a president why don't we continue the program we're following?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u234	V.E.G. President. Don't you realize that once the government has begun speaking in this way, it has certain goals? I participated in discussing long and much of the government's bill on the Council of Government. Why? Because I wanted to get it done, and there were many of us, that the matter would come back to a material treatment committee, and we did so. That's good. Now we're waiting for a meeting about it. I can mention other issues that involve us in our government council members, matters that we would like to consider, and would like to agree on. Do they not understand what this controversy is all about? Do we not understand why we are at times trying to delay the council? I'm just telling you straight out, of course. That is specific goals we have in mind. If we get caught up in the word and sit down and try to come to an agreement on the issues that are debated about them, then there will be an agreement. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Then we'll finish the council. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u235	Mr. President. It is only hope. paritaprevir The Hjálmar's Bogi's Helmetson Hafliðason will come in here with nothing but a sledgehammer. He's a very busy head of state from the north knows how to cooperate and how to cooperate, and he's never seen this kind of work in his life. Senators are laughing. I can't help feeling sorry for him. I know he's an Orator, and he's got a lot of conviction. We've seen those who've been watching him on a quick flight through the councilmen here on their previous losses. I challenge this kind of candidate from the north to exercise his influence on the leading of the advance advance party to accept the support of reconciliation and cooperation that we saw extended here just past that point. paritaprevir The count of Jónasson's son, trying to bring this matter to the ground. It's got a why. A senator many times in the north, and we are now waiting for him to show us his Mexican powers here at the High General.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u236	Madam President. I agree with the last word. paritaprevir Acoustics, Skarphéðinsson's son. I think that's what we're talking about. A member of the north should do his part to resolve the seemingly strong conflicts. It is quite morning's light that it has yielded certain results, such as giddy. paritaprevir The pride of Jónasson's son came along, that when matters are discussed every way that many feel is a filament of speech, there are things to be revealed, including as with the previous case, which has been brought back to the committee or rather, the discussion has been delayed and discussed in the morning at the Ministerial Fundament Committee. That is fine, and that is to correct the situation. That is exactly what happened to many other cases mentioned earlier. When people think there's really no point in doing anything other than having a general bore, they're just not right. This, of course, is primarily to achieve some goals. No matter what people think of them, it's just the Senate in this way, it's the advice we have to do these things. If there is a sincere desire to change this and to have the council somehow different, people must be contacted on a Senate committee, and that hasn't been done for a long time. I think there's a couple of months between meetings, and they don't make much of it. So the government and its representatives are not willing to adapt this council so that the shape of the council will be in some way that is different from what it is, and people don't like it. I think if people think it's the best thing to bring up a Senate committee, it's the best thing to do. I don't think anyone is hiding that we in the government stand are getting very tired here, we can talk about these matters, but we obviously choose that things will land somehow. It is better for the underlying issues, it is also better for the government and also for the government's opposition. It's better for everyone, everyone's making money on it. I don't understand the mind of the government party not to see the ability to complete Congress and enter the summer with the case that flew so far yesterday. I find it quite remarkable that people don't see an opportunity in it, I don't talk about in the light of the trust that is very little for this government, which I think is really bad, but it's another matter again. Hv. paritaprevir Willum Þór Þórsson called attention to this case, which was presented here at this moment, on the change in income tax laws, on public pay fees, tax payment on capital gains, capital taxes, taxation, customs, etc., and, of course, for the first time this case was discussed, there was a judicial opinion in the winter. I kept my simple view of the 3rd. would come from something called the Committee of Overseers. I didn't realize that this was a different opinion. This is a matter that is not particularly charming in which customs are discussed. When I first read the committee's opinion and looked down into the c-line, I could see that it was talking about a toll number change, inside it was colloidal, natural gum, and resin, rubber-harpixar and something like that, and thought to me, "What is this all about? Even if you do not have to dig deep into each issue, these issues are part of a wealth fund. I think we're all good at making a few adjustments. Although we do not have to put ourselves in a deep place, we are making much changes here on the merit tax. For example, 17 letters are being changed, which are then presented in a new format. As I say, I just wanted to review the past and review what is especially important to me, and I'm glad that I was taken seriously to fix it in a chapter entitled Qualifications for Infirm Cars, Exceptors. I'll have to read, with the permission of the president: ...at the 18th. The bill is suggested that there be no doubt that it is a requirement for the collapse of automobiles specifically equipped to transport the disabled, as per m-jöment 1. correct the product of road vehicles, fuel, and so on, that they have a wheelchair lift or other similar equipment. A review given to the committee describes concern over the lack of clear identification of lifts, ramps, elevator seats, and elevators for persons who are driving themselves as equipped with equipment comparable to wheelchair lifts. It is understood that this equipment is an example of equipment within the term comparable equipment. Among other things, I've talked about a breakdown in the cost-employing tax system of disabled athletes, but I didn't realize it when this was being discussed for the first time. Thus, a number of concerns were found on the government taxpayer who answered a question or rather than on the ministry's answer to that question when I asked about the tax companies, about the merit tax numbers, and other things that it would be difficult to place it on some particular categories. It seemed difficult to answer. There are not many cases of such extras and money, but it seemed to be very important to get out here. I'm going to make it happen again. There's always a review of the worthy tax laws here. This is changing a considerable number of legal matters in connection with matters that occurred in the fall, but if that's possible, I think this must also be possible. This was merely a bill of domestic partnerships, which are strictly business dealings with other members of the country. According to the greater part, several criticisms were observed, but it seems to me that the lower part did not agree on how to deal with them. I agree that in view of the collapse and the previous events, we must want to increase the transparency. A transparency does not mean that you do not define a relationship between enterprises, as is suggested here, in effect, to avoid having to do. I find it a mistake on the part of the Committee not to suggest this. I don't know what interests are being served here because it's this way of bringing in, and it's something else that we can review, and we don't have to introduce them in everything. That is why I think it could have been done by the amount of money said to be among the reasons that should be burdensome is not such that an enterprise should put something particularly negative out of it, i.e. the big ones. Based on the reviews available here, I don't think so. The smaller portion depends on the amount of money that is raised, so it really meets it. As a direct result, I don't think putting papers on these parties should be allowed to interfere. Then there was the proposal for the insurance fee that we discussed quite a bit about the budget. In other words, it is positive that the decision has been made not to follow through. There will be no other way to say, for the struggle that took place, including, will come true. of the unions and the pensions that came. Our discussion during the council has a bearing. It is important from the time some feel that you talk about certain things too often. What is being converted into the tax law involves the equation of life's disability funds. Quite a lot of people went against it, and they gave you a good argument. It said that many of these sources had a high rate of disability, and they may need to equal the national pension. One pension fund has often been spoken of. I don't know if that's practical, but I think it would be extremely wise to consider. As the chairman of the Values of Pension said, when this was done, the decrease in pension pay and internalization of the age-dependent pension rights would be up to 4.5%, and this contribution was to disappear in the next five years. As I say, it in itself is extremely good that things don't work out. I sure hope this doesn't happen. It was supposed to happen over the next five years, and now I don't remember exactly how or whether this is shown in a national financial program that may be one of the things you can think about in relation to her going to the legal committee tomorrow. There are so many things you can talk about that has gone wrong with the employee and with the government's dealings with the job life that took place here around the budget. I would have liked to have more time for that. I'm also going to make the suggestion from what? paritaprevir However, Jón Þór Ólafsson, whom he did not recommend earlier, suggested that the governor of the tax no longer publish the stress taxes. I'm totally against it, and I believe that this is just a very good access device and a way to opening and transparency. It's interesting, therefore, that this has been committed by a pirata away from what we can conclude to be a personal protection. It's right over there that we found out about the collapse of how people treated money and took it. I certainly hope we make that suggestion here at the council. I don't think she has any business here, and I don't think she's really gonna believe that in view of the fact that he's putting her down by himself that the more part takes her down along with at least our left greens, I assume, and even more so that this is going to be left to the public of all the agencies. A respectable president. I'm not going to have any more words on this subject but to encourage people to read just such a language that is not particularly charming and to go to wares and other such things or taxes. As I said at the beginning of my speech, this is a very large part of the state funds, all sorts of these things that often flow through the council without people having an idea of the contents. It just votes for a staff and something like that and doesn't exactly know what it's about to vote for. Of course we try, at least left green, to get information from our agents, but I don't know how the intelligence of other classes is prepared for members of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u237	A respectable president. It was a great debate in this government when a so-called tapeworm was approved here with a budget not long ago, in which the decision was made to reduce the ratio of 0.325% in terms of a common insurance fee that goes to the equation and decreases in the disability pay of pensions. We were severely critical of that change, and this is a retraction. This was to be the first step out of four that would be taken just to take it out. It is now being reversed, and this is done in connection with the government declaration dated May 28th. We must be glad we're doing this, this is in harmony with our case and the labor movement that severely criticized it. However, the labor movement criticized more factors at the time, including cutting down market operations, so - called effective measures. I wanted to ask you what. A senator whether she believed the government would bring in any more changes, i.e. whether she sees in general when it comes to this minimization process, as I've traced it here. Does she think she's expecting anyone else? Well, maybe. A senator who was on the budget told me something a little more about this matter and what exactly is going on here? Does she know of any further actions that the government withdrew, as is being done here?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u238	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer. In itself, I do not expect that on the end of the council, there will be other factors that will be added to reciprocate what we agreed on or turned down on the budget bill earlier this year. Maybe there's been some discussion on a financial and business committee that I don't know about but I agree with that, and I was just reviewing it earlier when I started to look into this case, that the whole arrangement works, i.e. communication with rural communities as well as the decrease in unemployment rates had an effect. I can't remember what it was supposed to save, maybe about a billion, when 36 was gone for 30 months. There were other factors that seem to have followed through. True, there is one factor that has not gone on, and it will be interesting to see if this is shown in financial proposals or what to do about having patients at the cost of medication, not being arranged at a meeting of the legal committee, how to meet them. I think it's about 300 million under there, something like that. V.E.G. The minister has not carried out the regulations to deal with this, she is ready, and the Ministry could not help but assume her income. The Ministry is being ashamed of not making good plans, but the actual procedure in this case has not been carried out. I'm in itself very comfortable with that, but they need to be found with money or where they're coming from.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u239	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for these answers. You see, this has something to do with me, as mentioned earlier in this chair, and often also in the discussion here, that the first two years of this government have more and less focused on that if the left government did, the bad left government, she was going to take it back. The men were so bent on taking back the very good thing that now they are seeing themselves and turning away from that course because they realized that in a hurry, men were entering a very wrong course. This happens when humans are completely aimless. What distinguishes the activities of this government is that humans do not examine the overall picture, they do not look at policy over time, but are mainly in the process of fixing up time, i.e. winding from the actions of the former government, as they have been said here. Then these things happen, men come forward to take back the action of the previous government, and then they have to bring their tails between the legs and make the corrections they are doing here. I think this example is part of the great context we're dealing with here, perfect aimlessness, complete lack of long-term vision and complete lack of overall picture of what's going on here and where men are going to legalize. I think we need now to demand of this government that it will provide much clearer details as to what it would like to see happen here for a long time. It is not impossible to live forever with human rule alone. [[The president calls.]] That's not how you control the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u240	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. There is no other way to say that, unfortunately, the government president seems to be incompetent, especially the head of the forward Party and some of its members, in some kind of government position still at that time. The compromise is very often a sign, especially when trying to get answers, that in spite of their authority, they somehow do not seem to use it to a small extent. That may be good in many respects, perhaps less of what you disagree with. First of all, this is about the lack of good communication between the labour market partners, local government members and others in this government. It has come out clearly, and it has been demonstrated in a number of comments on a number of cases. We're just having such a case on a global and educational committee where there's a lot to complain about, and that, in one way or another, we're going to be working on the rights of our rural society. For unemployment insurance, insurance, etc. became a part of what came out when we discussed the budget, the decrease in unemployment rates in which costs moved from one country to another. Adding contributions to the rehabilitation pension was required because it was focused on the need for the State to expand in one place because others were being cut down on unemployment insurance.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u241	Madam President. In some cases, discussions about the meeting board have had some success, and it has evidently been done earlier because the meeting is now at the highest level. First president, The Einar K. The Son of Guðfinnsson. I think it's right that we interrupt this meeting right now and see what comes out of that discussion. This discussion cannot be continued and the whip on the back of all of these matters. We just want to be waiting for anything to come out of the meeting of the council plans to resolve these issues. I think there's a good reason for that. Considering how the discussion has been, it's not a matter of running from us. It's just to take a breath and take a break.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u242	President. I can well understand the ambition of the President to want to finish matters that make up for a relative agreement, as in the case of which we are here. However, it has to be suggested that much more of the members of the council here tonight have suggested that it is unfortunate to continue meeting here tonight, no matter what the case is being discussed. Conditions like this have been in this way today and in recent days. The matter to be discussed in the morning also calls for a recession of the council's activities in terms of the breakup of this meeting, for people to prepare for tomorrow, and for those of their nature or other creations who do not trust to achieve agreements on the matter, to take advantage of the time to consider how they could succeed. I ask, Mr. President, that he will think this better, at least take a break in the meeting and that he will prefer to create a better working atmosphere at the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u243	A respectable president. There is a requirement in this Assembly Hall for men to sit down now and try to draw some picture of how to complete this assembly. This must be done because, for example, here we have agreed that men will bring a huge case into the council with no priors and that they will be scheduled. Then you just have to go over the issues left and how you're going to put it all into place. You can't let us start this discussion tomorrow with this whole thing in the air. We cannot be offered that way, nor can we offer the people as important as the members of the council in other respects. It's here all the discussion and all the cooperation in this council hall. I'm asking for tonight's completion and men to sit down and try to review all of this. [[The president calls.]] This meeting must be interrupted now while the president meets with the directors of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u244	Madam President. I think it's the highest. Just before, a president has done a perfectly good job when she has given it what to do. paritaprevir The Steingrímur J. Sigfússon was meant to mean what. Senators speaking of the President's conference board. I've sometimes found that I have felt as presidents who have been conducting meetings in a way that doesn't go beyond the norm. It is a tradition where human control finds that after someone has been given the word, there is no other one. I think it's the highest. President has shown a certain understanding of why. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, who wanted to discuss the matter, should have stuck to his earlier decision not to give a cause. The members of the council later discussed the meeting board of presidents. [[Up front.]] I think it's a rule of the highest order. Presidents often don't have enough strength.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u245	V.E.G. President. On July 1, the Council will begin its summer break on chapter 10. Conventional contracts, up until 12 or 13 days are working. Tomorrow's session should be discussed or should be discussed with a very large and important subject that is important to all of us and to our Icelandic national preparation. I believe, under these circumstances, irresponsibility is at the highest level. For example, the president of the United States, to continue to insist on meeting meetings where there is no room for smell at this council. What will be the situation if we remain in this position on July 1, Madam President? It's kind of fun, and I pray to the highest. That's what a president has in mind. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u246	President. At the top of what is said, there is a difference. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Jr., pointed out that the meeting is now conducted by the chairman of the council, the president of the council, the elected president of the council. Yet, the matter should continue to be discussed here, the case in the middle of the story, and then another matter in the future. The situation is, however, that tomorrow at a meeting, wasn't it at noon? Before he is asked, men should have prepared for him, and this does not directly describe agreement or reconciliation on the part of the government, nor is there great advice on the President himself. Then it is that when it comes to meeting management, it is necessary to have things as they should have been and not as they were in their senses. [[The president calls.]] It's the way of a good manager to be clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u247	A respectable president. I suppose they're about to end this assembly now, but I'd like them to again insist that tomorrow we're not going to discuss the situation in the atmosphere where all the issues are raised. We demand that we remain loyal and begin talking to us in a way that will result in the completion of the entire assembly. We cannot take it as important as the emissions of capital syrup, where it is important that we achieve a solidarity and get along well on all these issues. Sincerely, we are not offered to go into that discussion like this. And then they're going to finish this discussion and continue this nonsense here? There must be some answers, a respectable president. This is not possible. This is absolutely unacceptable to all of the people we are here and to all who we are working for. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u248	Madam President. I hear there's a debate in the Assembly Hall about who had managed to ask for the word or who had been able to ask for a meeting government. It's hard to judge. Hv. paritaprevir Össur's son's Skarphéðinsson has judged for his part in the matter, he judged me there, but I'm not ready to be judged and thought that I was the first to hit the table and ask for the word for a meeting board that I received. I reiterate that this joint is important because it produces results. Although government officials at each time are charged with its use in this way, this joint still has an effect to shake up in humans for solutions. Who knows if there's a solution around the corner? You never know. I'm more expecting it than the other.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u249	Madam President. It would be wish for a message from the council president, the Einar K. Son of Guðfinnsson, that he was going to be stopped at the council of the evening, where he is now meeting with members of the council, I understand. I hope that some sort of acceptable plans during the evening will be achieved and then tomorrow, which is less important. I think it's far more important that tomorrow's meeting will be in the atmosphere needed but not in these, I don't want to say, shooting warfare, but in the atmosphere of the country. People have been showing help in taking a case of great importance on a program like this before, both on Sunday evening and on the issues to be discussed tomorrow, at which point it is time and only natural for people to have at least time to prepare. Many have been in the Assembly Hall and have shared in the discussions there. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u250	A respectable president. I'll join my party sister, okay? paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir, that it is necessary before the program begins tomorrow to have a pretext on how to complete the council. We are all aware, as they say, which is not well said, because we all know that the work that will be assigned to us tomorrow is very important. It is important for all of us, for the economic situation of the nation, for the economic stability of the nation, and for all the words that are used during the holidays. On the other hand, this big issue cannot be used to extort government opposition in order to release the weapons it has in an effort to get the sense of it in humans, which seems impossible to solve anything. Now we need to know how to complete this assembly here this spring. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u251	V.E.G. President. I'm kind of afraid to come up and put down the words of my party sister, my boy. Senators Katrín Júlíusdóttir and Valgerður Bjarnadóttir. There are two issues that concern the capital of the nation's enormous interest, and I didn't think that anyone would think that we were going to discuss them when there's a total disunition on how to complete this council. I think it's so strange, it's like there's a lot of money around here that people can act like couples and street boys, but then they can count on the sense of responsibility of the smaller part. Of course, these are national issues. Senators will take responsibility accordingly, but this is way beyond our limits here. I remind you again that according to the Senate we'll be allowed here from July 1st.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u252	President. I feel very strongly that a conference meeting will not be started or the program will be scheduled for tomorrow's crisis until any agreement on the end of the council has been reached. A meeting can be held between hours and hours. 12 and 14 with presidents of the government, and this matter can then be arranged. The officers of the management team were supposed to meet with us today, but they didn't until 18 p.m., and then they didn't want to see us tonight to finish the case. I think it's unacceptable, Mr. President. During the last term, there were few times when a man ran from room to room at a meeting in order to try to make some peace over the end of the council. At that time, government leaders could just think of meeting here long after night with the presidents of the government. [[Up front.]] Today, young men are directors of the board, and they cannot stay at work until evening to find solutions. What kind of pussy is this? [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u253	The president would like to state that when a discussion on the third part is over, a meeting is scheduled to be terminated.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u254	Madam President. I'm not going to extend this discussion much, but there are a few things that I just want to know, especially because the members of the greater part have not yet responded to what was said in my case and, in fact, others have responded. Senators. Mrs. President, of course, I appreciate the word. It is now in accordance with the uncircumcised ritual that if a senator sitting in the hall does not realize that a proverb file has been emptied, but he has intended to speak and have the right to give him a sign of such a thing at the moment as president, he is to announce that his referendum is emptied and that it has become so, although, in such cases, the Senate always interprets the right of the senator's right to which he has to participate in the discussions and express his views. But, as I say, I'm not going to extend a lot of discussions on this program, although, of course, I know well. Councilmen, 4th. Smoke. and 3rd. That's the north side. " Be very excited about listening to my speech, but there will be a short time this time. First of all, I had hoped for some response or for us to get a little reasoning talk about the point that I called attention to and turned around to extract from the law a reference to OECD's guidelines on the cover-up. I have not yet learned what this transition should mean from the fact that it was considered the bill that introduced the directive in its time, quite specifically, that these cover-up rules were referred to. They would be an important guide for humans, not a law, but the counsel of this excellent institution, which has come from many fine things, even though it has sometimes been miscommunicated. At one point, a news reporter mentioned that they considered this to be a great improvement. Now I can't quite remember whether it was the business organization or the industry or who it was specifically mentioned, but I remember it so much that it was done. I would've liked to have this bottom line before the discussion ends, I don't expect it to lead to a change, and it's late. If you run out of discussion below, you will have the last chance of making changes, etc. Second, I'd like to talk about the paperwork. It may be me and you. paritaprevir (Árni) What questions remain to be answered? The Augurment of Páll Árnason is simply in memory with the view that there is no reason to go so far as to cancel the filial obligation for all international enterprises, even though only now that there are now only one of the largest sets in Icelandic commercial affairs, which are usually involved in the marketing market, as it is now our little reality of Icelandic business life that in many areas there are two, three most complex market advisers. This applies, for example, to the local retail store, that is, in storage. It has to do with shopping, and it has small sales companies that return to suppliers or import companies or services companies with whom they have many business dealings. I would have thought that at least one would want to pay attention to whether it would be acceptable to have a legal obligation in the business of such parties, although that would do nothing but reduce the suspicion of the strong position of such parties. A person may think that there is a danger that he may be tempted at times to avoid wearing entirely normal prices in such a business, and that he is, of course, competitive in it, for if such a market-based solidarities are to some extent profited by the price of an armwork point of independent business, it can affect her position with competition. It's simply that way, even if they believe that in a taxable sense, this is not the long - term concern for Icelandic tax returns. Obviously it can have a temporary effect, so I think that even the competitive and credibility show is bigger. If it doesn't take the greater part to compromise--and I laugh, Mrs. President, to draw attention to the fact that this is where they stand. We took care of the case and agreed to vote on 2nd. ... withthisreportation dutyinside. Then a body of Congress agreed on this. Then, suddenly, there's gonna be a transformation between the 2nd and the 3rd. that the weather is in the air, and why? Because of pressure, there is, of course, nothing more than a job pressure that just wanted to get rid of this mess. Okay, well, maybe we should have sat over it and were ready to settle down so that it weighed only the major ones, but unfortunately it did not work out. I'll also ask them, "If this is how the case will be closed and made legal in this way, is it still that the financial and business committees look at this matter? ' Of course, we can do so at our meetings in the fall and late winter and wonder: " Was this really the right conclusion? The third and last things I had hoped to get clear here at the discussion, Madam President, in terms of a change in plans. paritaprevir Jón Þór, son of Ólafsson. I would have been interested in knowing her fate. I don't know if that's involved because the senator is no longer in the hall, for at least. Will the new proposal come up tomorrow? I feel that members of Congress need to know, because there is a fundamental change in subject matter entirely unorthodox what we here are talking about, which is to be said at the release of tax files and pressures. There's nothing to do with cover-up rules, not anything. Of course it is. A senator is free to make changes in any form of law in the bill, but it is of course necessary to bear in mind that this fundamental change is presented here as a adjustment to the 3rd bill. and has not spoken of it, so that I have heard. Will the council just shoulder it, and will everyone be ready to vote on it tomorrow or whenever it would be? I would have liked to know, does this come as a compliment? If it comes to votes, Madam President, I'm going to do all I can to get it killed and challenge the senators to do so, all those who have been together over the years to defend the release of the tax file and pressures, that they do not now disappear on this round. It's been tried many times, and so as not to speak in a few words, it's young conservatives, The World's dolls who have suggested it. I guess they agree with this conclusion at each of their own councils, that it's just awful to be shown how much money some people have and have to pay a lot of taxes or under taxes. Happily, however, there has always been a broad political controversies, perhaps some independent members, but not all of them, I think. I don't think everyone in their class felt that they should disappear from this release. It is now sometimes this way, Madam President, that men may be tempted to get a ride like this when dealing with changing all other aspects of the law, as above. Sometimes we call it a stowaway when such suggestions suddenly appear, and it would be a strange thing if this fundamental change was made here at 3rd. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. If it will be so, as I heard the affidavit of to the why. The senator wondered if he would call the proposal back, when this discussion is unnecessary, and it does not come to a vote, but I believe it is important for the senators to realize that it is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u255	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying I agree with what. Senator. I believe it is only natural that we have heard at least the views of the leading committee as regards the adjustment proposal from that point on. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson's son and that men have only discussed how they see the suggestion, for this requires a considerable discussion. I would have thought people would come here and have a conversation about what way they'd imagine it would be done. I have two questions. First of all, I'd like to ask you what. Senator: In turn, more part of the Economic and Business Committee changed to a-team 2 (Counsel 2) changes in law No. 50/1988 is discussed about the adjustment to an Annex to the Law, which says that in place of the 7% share would be 11%. I realize it's hand-to-hand, i.e. that when it was decided to increase the food tax, they forgot to raise this number in the appendix. But I'd like to ask you why. Because the change has been in force for some time: A member of the Parliament, and has it shown in the Committee whether this has any effect? Has anyone paid 11% to hear under this appendix? Well, maybe. A senator only explained to the rest of us who are not members of the committee and did not discuss this matter exactly?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u256	Madam President. First of all, I agree that I feel that there is a need for it to be in the way and to understand what happens to a change in motion. paritaprevir Jón Þór, son of Ólafsson. I think I've sat down everyone, or almost all of the economic and business committee meetings on this matter. The committee's work has been busy in the winter, and we spent a lot of time on it for 2nd. and then again before the 3rd. I don't remember the case getting any meaningful coverage on the Committee. Perhaps at one point it was mentioned as "woe. " A senator said that he would transfer this motion, but if he didn't communicate or reason on it, I'm in the dark about the position of the greater part to this proposal, if he took it in the head, but I hope the best. For the handle arm or the mess that the sum of 7% remained in the introduction team of an appendix to the law, and, of course, should have made changes in accordance with the changes made to a merit tax during the past year, I can no longer remember exactly which status it has. Obviously, this is not a strain of propentan itself, for it is in the law itself in the article that deals with the steps of a worthwhile tax. But this had been left in the internal language to an appendix and, of course, should not be there, but whether it has an important right effect, if there has been any uncertainty about any taxation, and if anyone can claim that he is not necessarily obliged to pay without 7% in return for 11% at this time, from January 1 up to June, I just don't dare say.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u257	A respectable president. I hope that we will be able to have a perfunctory discussion of the proposal. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson is serving here. I myself see evidence against it. What's best against her is a difference in pay between the sexes. However, this involves a degree of transparency, which makes it easier for women in the general labour market to understand the salary they can obtain. Hence, the release is accompanied by a firm arrangement. On the other hand, I feel that this is personal information that we should not be able to have such arts. I'm bored with it, and I'm sure it goes with more. Therefore, it would be better if we could have a conversation and discuss these adjustments specifically but did not share them with us in this large matter. I'd like to ask you something else. In the transitional proposal made by the Committee all I see no better than the management sector going back to its ratio in the Second Amendment Act on the page for the provision of a regular insurance fee that goes to the equation and reduces the disability pay of pensions. They planned to drop it down completely in four steps, if I remember correctly, but now they decide to go back and be good, as well as to criticize the government opposition as well as the labor movement. In fact, there were other factors that labor unions felt men would agree on. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Congress whether this is evidence that humans are turning aside from the process of making government arrangements merely a matter of removing the action of the previous government, causing a person to bring the tail between his legs, as here is going to happen. [[The president calls.]] Counts 'em out. A senator's claim that there are other cases where people are going to come in here and withdraw the cut-off, such as the effectiveness measures in the labour market? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u258	Madam President. About a change in plans. paritaprevir Jón Þór, son of Ólafsson, is the most complex argument in my mind. First of all, the manifestation is clearly transparent, this is important information that truly is of public interest, i.e. Human tax returns, government income through the tax system. It's an instrument for the wages of the sexes, that's perfectly clear. These data, the media, and others can work on that while they are open, including, open to them. to note how much pay difference, a pricing difference, or depending on incidents in some way there is a gender difference in pay between individual articles. This is very important because it forces people to show their wages, whether abnormally small or unhearable, and it works against just one lesion in my mind, i.e. salient in the labour market. This works against it, for even if you can keep your salary hidden at work, they'll show it in a sense there when it comes to the application. As a result, we, who have been and are advocates of the general open agreements, are probably not having much trouble fixing our minds on these topics, I suppose, at least, at least for a radical matchmaker or socialist like me and I hope for as many people in general.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u259	You're just old...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u260	With the advice of the insurance fee, it's a pleasure to know that the management is backing up, that it's giving up forever. She was driven to flee with this before her New Year's Eve. It was now, I think, close to the coming bargains that would discourage them, for they knew that they did this one - sided and completely in opposition to the workforce's parties, absolutely, we warned them very strongly. For example, I did so on a financial and business committee, and maybe it had some effect on the fact that the more part decided to back up. And then, in the collective agreements, they are, of course, turned down. The situation will now be replaced by a reduction of a quarter otherwise that would have occurred on June 1. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u261	A respectable president. I'd like to come back for a speech. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, who made it a subject of registration. When I first read the bill, I kind of felt the same way. A senator wondered why the paperwork was being taken out. After considering it, I now hear that we agree that it may not all matter to income taxes, as it were, that we cancel the legal obligation of family members, but I agree completely with the speculations as well. A senator had here a competitive policy, and whether there is no clear explanation in companies over certain capital or income criteria, or whatever criteria we use, to deal with competitive laws, where there is a bill to change the law on income taxes and other taxes, but not, for example, on competitive laws. But I just wanted to come up here and agree with the view that there should be no legal obligation to be between national parties in terms of income taxes, but in other areas, we should look at it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u262	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the question and, in fact, understated. I'm glad that there are others who think similarly, perhaps, that there is reason to think more about this, but just to take it off because they don't feel that there are many other viewpoints to it. It's a very good thought: Is this not just as likely to be at home in competitive songs as in securing proper competition if we approach it as a competitive matter? Of course, the problem is that we are enforcing an intermediate policy, and this, of course, belongs to them there because there is a second requirement for the registration. There will continue to be a people's law and responsibility for registration in the face of a major cross-border trade. Of course, we are not canceling all the paperwork, but it is being canceled within the country. It will continue with the people, and many of the companies who will have to have a little more paperwork if they have to document their business inside the country, be obliged to document trade across the border, to their granddaughters abroad, or something like that. So I argue that this is a smaller change and that it only holds positive values in itself to the competitive and competitive conditions, to the credibility of these companies. And if we had limited ourselves to this to the largest of our partnerships and corporations, perhaps 15 to 30 persons, or something like that, over relatively high standards, then there is no reason for us to feel sorry for any of the millions at first and then one to two million a year in regard to them. [[The president calls.]] I think it should be examined.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u263	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. Parliaments with whom many have been discussing this matter on income tax, no. 356. In particular, I thank the head of the minority opinion, boy. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, for a detailed discussion on the subject. If I start by checking a reference to OECD's guidelines on the cross-cutting, which was agreed on at 2. but it's suggested in the bill that it be released. Comments with the bill say, on permission of the president: It is suggested that direct references to OECD's guidelines on cross-cutting are removed, but it does not require direct referral to them in the substitution. The OECD guidelines for the cross-cutting will still be important sources of the application of cross-cutting rules in Iceland, as in other OECD countries, which are based on the principles presented. Thus, there are no material changes to the current guidelines for the cross-cutting that are contained in 3,◯6. mg 57st. income taxation shapes Of course, this is key to the fact that material changes are not being made. However, it was noted to the committee that since these rules are in English and no one intends to translate them, it is not reasonable to refer to them directly. That was really the explanation. If we then make the paperwork, there was really no change in it in the bill as it was presented. However, indications were provided for the 2nd Environment Committee. that this may need a review, and we discussed it considerably on the committee back then. We received further indications following the preparation and implementation of the Convention on the implementation of the cross-cutting, i.e. how a company would do that work. Then came both professional and financial tips from the work that it was reasonable to consider the matter better. As a result, the majority of the decision was made to cancel the legal rights of domestic contacts exclusively with other members of the country. It is true that if one enterprise in a cross-border complex, all relevant documents will be provided. That's the key in this case. However, these rules are tax policy rules and are intended to be used in the implementation of the tax law rather than the SEC. The Contestant Commission made it clear that these data would always have to be received in particular if a survey of possible competitive legalities so that, as I understand it, people would really be making them false security by making the papers a guarantee of a better competitive surveillance, because the rules are intended for implementation of a tax law rather than the Contestance. Although it is suggested that documents are not relevant in the trades of any country, such business practices are still the norms of the 3 mg per year. 57st. Tax taxes, No. 90/2003, that the prices between linked legislations should be in accordance with the arm length rule. At any given time, the tax authorities can ask for the data to confirm, which, of course, is not possible if one company is located abroad. The types of taxes that have been linked to them should be made aware of their individual tax returns. Hv. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon made it possible for a financial and business committee to pay attention to the case and the development of the paperwork. I'm sure that's a big deal. Of course, the committee stated that new territories were being followed. It's the first time in a year that's under the OECD protocols, so at the spring convention of 2016 it would be normal for me to review how it's done, and it's probably directed to the Committee to do so. Then there is an existing proposal from the bottom. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson, mentioned here at 2nd. Hv. A senator then pulled it back. He then had a number of meetings where the matter was discussed in a financial and business committee, but never raised the issue of that proposal. I viewed her as being pulled back, so I was surprised when I saw her lying here and related to the case. But I can declare it for my part that I will not accept this proposal as if it has passed by. A senator will follow in advance that he will be clear for the vote tomorrow. The senator is. Then I hope that I have considered the key issues of opinion presented during the discussion. I was tired of thanking the Committee for a good job in this matter, but as mentioned earlier, it has been discussed in the Committee since November and May, if I recall correctly, and a great deal of work in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u264	The President wants to state the matter of a change in plans. paritaprevir Jón Þór, son of Ólafsson, mentioned here in discourses, came to a point. A senator intends to pull her back.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-09-125.u265	A respectable president. Upon this report, I believe that my speech will be quite shorter than I thought. I will not make a great report, but I will refer to it as it is. paritaprevir Steingrimur J. Sigfússon traced to our two minorities. I presented the evidence for continued documentation within a kit in the case of the largest firms, the simple fact that there are competitive interests because of the easy - to - date information on the cover of this kind and that such transactions can be traced back to time. It is also important to remember that in many companies business within a complex way to influence the survival of third parties. In particular, I mention trade in the fishing trade between fishing and substitution, thus producing seamen. That's why I thought it was a subject for me to try to have the paperwork in a way that we agreed on in the Committee after 2nd. The issue and further promotion of policy, so it meets only with the largest companies. I still believe that this is a matter of nature. Otherwise, it seems that itself is explained and first that a change in motion is made. paritaprevir Jón Þór, son of Ólafsson will not come to my word.
