ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u1	A respectable president. Two nights ago, on Monday night, I had the opportunity to sit at the opening of the Mice International Games in Saturday Valley Palace. I was very proud to see how things worked out. I was proud of the way Icelandic sports movement dealt, how nine - nation athletes went to a national event in Saturday's Hall. We may not have the best sports position in the world, but the Saturday gymnasium is a useful place, and Saturday's palace was decorated. There were groups on the stage and everyone was cheering. I hope that participants at this great sporting festival think of the motto of the Olympic movement, look higher, go faster, and get stronger. In Latin, by permission of the President, I allow myself to say, "Citius, alticus, propius." I'm also going to say here at the end of my speech that I was afraid to do so if this festival had now gone down because of a strike, as expected for a time. I think participation in sports makes young people better. Good luck. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u2	V.E.G. President. I come up here for the elected 66,000 pensioners who live in Iceland, and I want to express concern that it is not clearly declared that pensioners will enjoy the same amount of money as employees in the labour market. Both the European Union of older citizens as well as the National Social Security Association of Iceland have encouraged the government to ensure the same growth as the minimum wage in the EU, however, the National Association of older citizens has encouraged a review of social security and that older citizens enjoy the same amount of employment as others. Both relationships insist that, under the social security legislation, social security should change to rhythms with pay development, although it does not increase less than the prices. Although clear, this article is easy to interpret. I wish that pensioners will have the same elevations as others. I'll put it to work, because we can't order pensioners below and make a direct decision as far as it's concerned here at the Council not to let them enjoy the same elevations. At the same time, we will see that the reported tax reductions will be of virtually no benefit to a large percentage of this group, that in a new housing bill it appears to be expected that the income of PUBs will be taken when a new scale is cut down and will suffer, as well as a rising health - paying factor is getting very badly lower in this group. [[The president calls.]] I appeal to a sense of justice and encourage us to make sure that these groups have the same quirkier corrections as do other groups in the community. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u3	A respectable president. Similarly, I would like to talk about my social security system, but not about the amount of money, make the talk that was presented here. 3.m. Smoke. This is about the amount. At the last assembly, the person present was interested in examining exactly how the social security system worked, and particularly the decomposition that took place in 2009, as a matter of course. 3.m. s.. So mentioned earlier. The answer I received. 975 of the last legislature, 143th Congress, was on more than five pages, and first, I got the taste of the complexity of the system. I lay over the answer, but I spent some time trying to understand it fully. I'm not entirely convinced that I still fully understand it, the more I try to learn about the social security system, the more I see how hard it is. It's so complicated, I dare say that no one fully understands it. When this is done, the legal protection of the public security system's clients is very difficult, even impossible. When we get some complaints from the highest. you want to help, you try to help, you try to understand things, but it's just really hard, if that's possible. You don't know how to advise people. You don't know how to change the system for the better. Throwing money into it I don't think it would solve very much for very many while the system is so inaccessible. That is why I wanted to draw attention to the fact that excessive complex systems make justice very difficult. As we look ahead, it is important that we bear in mind that people need to understand what they are doing, that they need to understand that when they are broken, when some mistakes have taken place. They need to know how to react. It's not possible, as long as the systems are too complex. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u4	V.E.G. President. The government adopted last week measures involving collective agreements. The 11 teams are involved in various areas of taxes, welfare and housing as well as economic reforms and public funds. In particular, I would like to discuss the operations of a housing market in cooperation with my colleagues and the labour market partners. This will contribute to the growth of less expensive and more efficient apartments, with the aim of ensuring long - term house - to - house subsidies in an effort to build 2,300 social households during the 2016-52019 period. There has been a lack of market housing for quite a while, with the result of rising prices. These prices are only useful to professionals. The increases in real estate market are worst for young people who are trying to cover their heads, as well as rent markets, since rent prices are paid for. Therefore, I especially rejoice that the number of apartments on the market is increasing. There are other things to do. A building order has to be taken into consideration. She assumes that the smallest apartment could be up to 30 square feet [30 square m]. Such apartments are mainly built in apartments, and extracurricular work, which is very burdensome around the apartment, except for those 30 square feet [30 square meters]. At that time, rural society has a high impact, which is mostly due to heat prices. In 2011, the construction cost was 4%, now 16%. A maintenance price is a basis for real estate evaluation, so rural society earns directly from high prices. A border price has gone from five thousand to five million in ten years on the capital area. It takes double on consumers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u5	A respectable president. I'd like to have a word here for what? paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon wrote about an event that took place in 2009 when the senator was a minister. In the beginning, I'd like to read up here 40 degrees. The Constitution, by permission of the President: A law allows no tax to be imposed, changed, or taken. Also, a loan is not to be borrowed from the State, nor to be sold or otherwise given up to any of the land's property, nor to the use rights of it, except under legal authority. I want to go back to 2009. Then there was a strong criticism of the outcome of the then financial minister, who had actually taken away her authority and was introduced with a commission to negotiate the amount of money that went between the old and new banks at the time. It was completely corrected by the emergency law and the UN law, but further improvements were made in delivering the former bank owners of the Icelandic government's property, which was at that time 100% owned by the state. It was highly critical of government reexamination, which believed that in 2009 there was no legal right to hand over to the claimors of the state of the bank - without legal authority. What happened here at Christmas in 2009 was approved on December 21. It was then on December 21 p.m., at 8 p.m., that a bill was brought to the council. It became the law at noon the next day, where post-requisition warrants were provided for that operation. [[The president calls.]] So I ask. Sigfússon for a financial bill for 2010?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u6	Mr. President. Answers to questions arise. A senator or a lawsuit has been in public, including in Parliament documents, for about 6 years soon. In a paper with a bill that became the law No. 138/2009 in December 2009, all of this is under way. These are laws allowing confirmation of agreements between old and new banks and property proportions in the new banks. That bill was accepted unscrupulously, and it can be mentioned as fun, Mr. President, due to old Mogga's coverage recently, of course. paritaprevir Lilja Mósesdóttir and the highest. Jón Bjarnason's minister paid both the bill his vote. This is explained in the report, and it says, among other things, about the firm stand of the Ministry of finance: The resolution and the changes in attribute ratios were in the direct and unbroken terms of law No. 125/2008 and the October 2008 SEC decision to move to the newly founded financial institutions and debts of the fallen bank. For these reasons, the Ministry of finance considered 2nd. 1.mg. Twenty-nine. track No. 88/1997, of the government's income, is not appropriate, since the current legal arrangement suggests that law should be obtained by law to sell property into partners. According to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the State has not sold its property, ended its establishment, or its equivalent in the new banks, although its property is not 100%, as it did in the setting of its members. However, the proportion of possessions is changed by providing new cash in the bank. The nature of the bill that became legal is so clear in the report: The contents of the case are not obtained warrants for selling certain items. Rather, it is recommended to confirm the measures resulting from financial contracts. State funds and these stakeholders for recycling and renovation and for the possession of the state in the new banks. [[The president calls.]] The bill that became the law was not allowed to sell things but to establish a contract status. [[The president calls.]] So the General made both walls at the same time, approved the treatable terms and agreed to this nature of the process. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u7	V.E.G. President. There's a massive strike and a cover. It sucks, but is it unnatural? The majority of Icelandic households, according to a recent GALLUP survey, collect debt or barely make ends meet. If the government agrees with the public that he owns natural resources, it may be in words, but not in action; the mackerel bill shows it in black in white. Microscopic and senile patients are being filled with hunger marks and apparently should eat what they eat while on the outside. The Icelandic dollars has been reduced by 99.85% since its becoming an independent currency. With the same continuation, it will cost half a million for the next generation to go swimming. Tómas Möller points out this in a recent article on a circleway. He also points out that due to the fluctuation of the hazard load and a dollar burden to 46% of Iceland's cities, growth increases and increases up to 100 levels. K. in a month of growing up by an ordinary apartment beyond our families in our neighboring countries. In spite of this, despite its donated resources and despite the lack of interest in the government to take action necessary to improve the general life cycle, disability, and pensional patients, it is her special effort to hang on the crown like dogs on redness and to prevent the public from making any personal decision in this country as to whether he would like to join the European Union and adopt the euro, as they promised for elections. The highest minister of foreign affairs, who has done quite well at work, has completely failed the public in that great interest. Why does the government exercise the authority entrusted to it? Is this perhaps the old story about wealth and power and special interest? Or it is a disregard for the welfare of the people of the land, which is well described by the French queen who asked why the people did not eat cakes when she was told that they had no bread. [[The point is, she didn't. That's a lie.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u8	V.E.G. President. Tourism is a matter that interests me. Therefore, I greatly welcome the measures recently adopted by the government, but recently the government decided to assign 850 million to more intensive tourism projects in 51 places all over the country. So I had to take advantage of this opportunity to express my joy in the government's decision. Travel service is an enormously valuable resource that we must be careful about. It is important for the tourist to experience the natural environment that this country offers in the best way possible. Predictions that have appeared over a number of tourists this year are more than one million. In comparison, more than 997 of you came. Visitors to the country last year, i.e. in 2014. It is important to keep a close eye on the tourism services because it is a valuable resource. To ensure the enjoyment and increase of tourism, we must respond in the way of the growth of tourists. It is important to manage tourists all over the country to avoid the extreme impact of popular tourist attractions each year. We know that the tourist comes to the country looking for beautiful nature, so it is important to build a good access to nature. It is good to see how much structure will become at popular tourist locations, which are extremely complex. For example, there is the Golden Falls, Geysi, and Þingir. Besides the fact that tourist attractions that often seem to be forgotten are given financial support for building up. As an example, I'm going to say, "Salvagal pool." By this operation the government confirms that a vision is in travel service.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u9	V.E.G. President. Last Friday, the pleasant news was that the majority of labour workers in the public market had been reached by a collective agreement. True, the contracts are bold and will test the quality of the economy; yet their main theme is the spirit of what we candidates had agreed to and concluded at our council, i.e. that the minimum wage at the contract time would be 300,000. These contracts are designed to provide the highest benefit for those with the lowest salary and intermediate income. It is important to suggest that the government, the government's Sigmunds of Gunnlaugsson Gunollson, in that this agreement was met, and the housing benefits announced in the declaration of the government are, in fact, the greatest progressive step taken in the case of social housing in Iceland for 50 years. It's supposed to be a special celebration, and I hope the contracts that we're going to get will, what you're going to say, are the model of other agreements that are still going to be done. It brings to mind that, of course, the lack of cooperation between members of the BHM and the state is extremely painful and of great concern, and hopefully it will be solved as soon as possible. It's a terrible thing to know that collective agreements and crew battles are about people's lives and health. It is extremely difficult to reach negotiations when one of the same is hanging on the stick, so that both parties settle down, try to get together about things, and solve the created situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u10	V.E.G. President. I'm here to discuss a code of ethics, but at the council meeting it's a discussion of changing the law on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland and a record 8 g. that bill, by permission of the President: The Ministry of State gives governments advice on how to interpret the rules of morality in the following cases, provides instruction on these within the Council of Government, and monitors that they will accomplish their purpose. In order to ensure that the work of the U.S. Marshal and State Review is performed, the Ministry shall have regular consultation with that office. The password here is education and consultation. If we assume that the appearance is formed and the result of our behavior and language that we employ, the presentation of programs and political views, and developed over a long period of time, it is a long - term project to change or improve the appearance of what we would like to be on the job in a church hall. [[Up front.]] Then we need to agree on what form we really want to create. We do not want to express the opposite viewpoint. We do not want to yield to political views, but we might have to agree on the direction of the politics, which is shown in conflicts of more and less things, and without giving up the game plan or after. A code of ethics for the generals is found on a threshing floor. 1338 and their purpose, including to promote the responsibilities of the Generals and their responsibilities as well as to promote faith and trust. There are principles on conduct and conduct. We can start there, a respectable president, but the rules won't make any sense if they don't become part of a daily discussion, education and consultation, the same key concept of education, and the consultation of a body of Congress on standards to imitate and practice. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u11	V.E.G. President. There are many things I want to talk about today, but time is short. Among these are contracts made by the Continents to the big business of Grundartans, but there is uncertainty now where there seems to be a knot in the business. It is important that you resolve as soon as possible because this is less than 2 of you. jobs in the Gesture area and surrounding area. The work of these enterprises has a positive effect on a wide range of services in Western and other countries. I would also like to call attention to the slowness that exists here at the council these days. The same thing is said to be often and many times, and it seems that the purpose of the discussion is one to delay, but perhaps the purpose of another, who knows. Also, I would like to express my concern about the dresser status of the professions who have a strike. I really hope that the parties will solve the situation as soon as possible in a successful way for all parties. Also, I would like to discuss the positive news that came up with collective agreements. They were that one of the main struggles of the Agency to set up a realistic choice of housing markets is becoming a reality. This is evident, among other things, in building 2,300 apartments for the next four years for rent - rent families. The system will be financed by the founding of government and rural society and by direct wax pay. This is the most extensive design of such systems for some 50 years. At the same time, the social and housing minister is offering the bill for large-scale housing benefits for tenants. It's a pleasure and a pleasure to see news on the ASI website where the ASI celebrates this government's proposals for collective agreements and has heard that the government's deposit was the final point that it took to complete this crucial agreement. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u12	Mr. President. I'd like to, in view of what we were discussing at the council yesterday, to review only the National Institute of Education, which is being discussed in the General and Education Committee, to make laws. I would like to quote a letter received by the Director of Education and Culture, which states that an agent himself has decided to ask a minister about the matter, in view of the fact that he received a letter from one of the personnel of the Board of Education to make a certain inquiry as to the ways in which these changes were worked. An agent says about the subject of the letter, by permission of the president: It shows that of the evidence provided by the agent that the activities, organization, and housing of a study centre, under the direction of a joint manager, are already being taken into account by the planned union of the institutions and the activities of the proposed Institute of Education, despite the lack of approval of the legal projects of these institutions. You can compare this with the Fish Room case, it's not different. On this occasion, I would like to read the questions of an agent to the minister, for I think that, as we do the legal jobs here, we need to ask ourselves, " What do I need to be honored and considered, by the permission of the President? ' - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. I request that an explanation be made on the legal basis of an education and cultural minister allowed the agreement to be made from November 10, 2014, for the head of the Board of Education and for the details presented there. I also wish to inform you who was leading the deal. 2. I wish that the work of three qualified personnel at the Ministry of Education and Culture will be explained on the legal basis of the Board of Education and Cultures. In the third question, an agent asked for a more detailed explanation about the activities that have already been carried out in the study centre and are related to certain projects, according to one report. A respectable president. It is the legal order that reflects a particular legal exchange between the legislature and the Council and the Commission, the government established by the Ministers. An agent brings to the attention of the General Assembly that in the bill we are considering and on the schedule today, it is suggested that a minister be granted a legal authority to tolerate the establishment of an institution under which he or she will not be passed unless it is otherwise recommended in the law. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] These factors may be of significance if the transfer of the Teaching Agency's staff is to be carried out before the Council has taken a stand on the subject, a respectable president. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It is therefore unacceptable that this issue of the Council of Control is scheduled today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u13	Mr. President. During these last days, there are about 45 stars. a person signing a challenge to refer to the national law of all the laws that constitute a warrant for longer than one year's use of the fish resource, while the provision of national property in a constitution is not guaranteed. Once this rich national will has been introduced, we will continue to keep a list of such priorities as the mackerel, where the macroil, new species, to the next six years, hand it over to the current people who have taken macroil in the past few years, and provide expeditation on this new species. It has been shown that we have a number of cases on the nation's program, yet people are planning to put their heads under and keep trying to get these matters through, whether that is the case as we now discuss, about the Council of Government, which has no purpose in the next month, not one. Similarly, the mackerel bill has no purpose in the next month. And the changed frame code has no purpose in the next month, fuel in a camp, there's no purpose in the next month. You could continue to count that. The candidates come up here boasting because they basically invented the number 300 you. K. and it was written under their wing and that the bills are now on their way into the council to support it. I think that candidates should put themselves in line to change the existing program and take these urgent matters into consideration, to the housing, to the young people in the country, and to housing. [[The president calls.]] No, the head should continue to be put in the sand, and it should continue with a case that is not necessarily needed to be handled, and the people do not want to see done here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u14	V.E.G. President. Given the occasion, I would like to discuss only the state of high school in the north country. I have to say, I don't feel right in filling people in that area insecurity, with a lot of debate over the fact that they're going to school, that they should be united, and that they should quit school. Last week was the highest. A minister of education traveling through the Northeast district met with local directors and principals of school and reviewed what lay ahead. It's clear that we're going to take a three-year study course and that means less than 4 of you. High school students. Of course, we must act. We are in the position of having a small school education that has done very well in their efforts to provide students with the best education, and so it will be. However, it is the opinion of everyone in these schools that they need to react to these new circumstances, and they are certainly ready to discuss the best way to get things done so that learning quality and the one who saw the lights, excuse the sleigh we put on the student test, despite not being the same number of shoes. At the same time, employees must reduce their numbers. Civil leaders and schoolmasters in the North have said that they are prepared to look for ways to achieve the best progress of learning in the Northland without any harmony.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u15	A respectable president. First of a word. paritaprevir Valgerður's Gunnarsdóttir's selection. I understand the situation so that, in fact, the minister was able to drive back with the melancholy plans, both for local and for school champions, not just in the northeast but in other parts of the country. It is a good thing that powerful discussions and powerful resistance in society actually affect the plans of a minister, but it is not good for us to live in such a community that the institutions need to protect themselves from their own advisers. That's what the staff of the Fish Room lived for months, defending themselves from their minister. That's what high school is in right now, defending itself from a minister. I'll be happy if it's all right. A senator believes that the flight has become complete in this matter. I'd like to say a word. paritaprevir The Haraldur Einarsson of a building order is hard to deal with. That's his own word. I ask if building order is burdensome for disabled people. Is the building arrangement burdensome for the elderly? Is it burdensome for those who have to go through houses? Pronunciation of the highest. Governments to support collective agreements are talking about a special building block, a building class - where what is done? Look away from the demands of universal design. Do senators know what absolute design means? This means that there is a need for access to the disabled. At the same time, people talk about meeting the Convention on the rights of disabled people, and they talk about strengthening the access of the disabled and the elderly. Perhaps we, some of us, are having trouble putting ourselves in the shoes of the disabled, but hopefully we're all going to grow up to be old people where we want to live in our homes for as long as possible. That's what absolute design is about, a respectable president. And for whom is such design burdensome?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u16	Mr. President. I would like to begin my speech with just what this bill is about and quote them in the review of the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, the official financial office. It says, by permission of the president: This bill suggests changes in the European Commission legislation aimed at increasing the flexibility of the European Commission to organise its work. To this end, it is suggested that the minister's permission to organise the Ministry be increased so that, in addition to the exchange of the Directorate-Athlete office in the trade office, there will be permission to set up operations and the Ministry Department's Office within the Ministry. According to the bill's comments, this is particularly the possibility of uniting the business of the Ministry and the individual administrative institutions, which receive the position of the Ministry as the Ministry, but no longer become a special government government. Although such units will not be included in the leading office, they will still be the administrative part of the Ministry and the administrative decision there taken on behalf of Ministers in the same manner as in the leading office. It is also suggested that the State's rights and duties be improved by laws allowing personnel to move between governments without being published for application. - I'll discuss a few things later in my speech. It is presented in the bill for six other changes to the law. It is first suggested that the law be reinstated, which allows Ministers to determine the location of an institution under which they hear unless the law is otherwise recommended. Second, the obligation to report at government meetings from meetings where more than one minister has shared with others for discussions or presentations of important matters. Third, the law states that there should always be a prime minister committee on the state of financial matters and the Minister's Committee on Economic Affairs. Fourth, rather than moving a list of formal communications and meetings between the management board and non-employees, there will be an obligation to maintain a record of the important relationships between these members. In this regard it is also proposed that there be a change in information laws that include a check on important information about government communication with the public and other governments in the same way as other important information. Fifth, the fact that in the transfer of the administrations between recruitment agents, financial rights and employment between recruitments should be transferred to the limit of normal and not to reach an agreement on a sharp prime minister. Finally, it is suggested that commands and operating of co-ordination committees be canceled on moral standards for the administration. A respectable president. This is basically what the bill is about. It has raised an issue of clear authority, or it has been added to a law that a minister can determine the establishment of the institutions. It is a good example to see how the design has been successfully implemented by a fishing lab. The fact that this was not spoken of in the Law adopted during the last terms was simply because the spirit of the law was so that it would, of course, be out of the question that a minister would take up his magic rod and bring up organizations as he wanted it to be. This has been illustrated in the case of the Fish Room when it was properly announced that a Fishing Room in Hafnarfjörður should be picked up and brought to Akureyri. Now I've lived in Akureyri, and it's very good to live there, but it's just not about that. Of course, not just a word of text but also a word of people who carry out their duties and fulfill their institutions and goals. This needs to be taken into account when deciding to bring the institutions on the land, and it must be done with all caring and looking at the social and financial situation that can change with the people who work for the Agency. If we look at the way it was done at Fish Room, but that institution has a very important surveillance role in one of our major sectors, it's been weakened by this operation. The Agency has weakened its plans. With the poorly prepared, badly developed and unexplored plans, the Agency's surveillance role is weakened and it's very bad for us as owners of the resources to which a fish living room is supposed to take care of the legal process. Now it's got the highest. A marine and agricultural minister realizes that this is not going to work in the way that has been proposed and that is very good, and is going to move the Agency over a longer period and have certain centres, etc. I don't quite know how to do it exactly how to do the highest. Ministers have thought of changing their plans, but it seems that this is so that it works better with the Agency's role and better with the staff. But such a poorly prepared operation is already causing damage, and quite a good example, I think, that this authority should not be passed on by law at all. Of course, it should not be so that organizations cannot be brought, for there can certainly be circumstances that need to be done, and this is vital in preventing other problems. But giving the minister a free game of this can't work, and the example of the Fish Room is just so clear as to make it impossible to agree. Other conditions apply to new institutions, i.e. When new institutions are started and decided where to put them. There are certain views that the state's institutions are where the people are, but there may also be other viewpoints that support the distribution of institutions throughout the country, depending on their role. However, this was a way of bringing institutions to a minister of practicality. Another thing that I want to make comments about and that is very opposed and that really means a great deal to my heart, i.e. to execute regulations that require order and execution of co-ordination committees on moral criteria for the administration of the administration. The bill suggests that a co-ordination committee will be submitted, but the Ministry of Presidency will accept her assignment. A minority list shows, allowing a president: The majority of these doubts exist, pointing to the committee's fact that logical support in the bill is limited and not clear as to what was going on with the change. So the minority feels that this aspect of the matter needs to be considered in a much better way. A respectable president. I'm not entirely sure that people will understand what this is, a co-ordination committee on moral standards for the administration. To prepare this talk, I turned to the report of the commission entitled Trust in professionalism. A new protocol for the administration, published on May 4, 2012. I'd like to interrupt the report in several places, first of all, to state the role of the Committee, by permission of the president: ▪ Standard moral criteria in the administrations were originally set up by law No. 86/2010 of the change in the European Commission legislation and other laws (ethic rules). Notes with the bill that became the law No. 86/2010, the role of the Committee is described and implemented as a plan of action. The rules of ethics and co-ordination committees were adopted almost unchanged in the law of No. 115/2011 of the Council of the Management Board of Iceland. According to these panel projects, the following are: a. to promote the high moral standards of public employment and to provide governments with counsel on measures to prevent conflicting and corruption, b. to give a review of the rules of ethics on the basis of these laws and laws on the rights and duties of the officers of the state and to advise the government on their interpretations, c. training for information and academic research in the topic areas of the Committee, d. to contribute to the compatibility of failure as indicated by the WHO monitoring criteria and other available information on violations of ethics or risk of corruption in the state, e. to join partners, institutions and offices in the country and abroad who work against corruption in the public sector, f. giving prime minister a yearly report on his work, which would be made if further measures to strengthen confidence in the government's administration, to reduce the risk of corruption and problem in the administration. The report shall be submitted to the General Assembly. This role is very important to me, and it's a real need for such committees, such as the National Institute of Moral Standards, to work to give the very highest level. The prime minister's report on the work, pointing him where or where to fix it and what to do to prevent them from breaking, maintaining, and preventing corruption. The bill we discuss suggests that the committee involved in this role will be removed, and the project will be moved to the Ministry of Presidency so that Prime Ministers should somehow give themselves indications and find out for themselves how to ensure that there is no corruption in him or anyone else in the government. I feel that this is so inexplicable, and I do not fall for the basis of trust and credibility, as was the purpose of the legislation on the committee. The report further says, with the permission of a president: In 2010, the Commission's Legislation Committee on Moral Standards was set up in the fall of 2010 and met for the first time on November 1, 2010. It includes Jón Ólafsson, president of the Committee, Páll Þórhallsson, and Kristín Ástgeirsdóttir, all appointed by prime minister, Friðjónsdóttir Fjordursdótir of the Ministry of finance, Magnús Pétursson, representative of the Social Affairs of the Reichs, Guðfinna Halla Þorvaldsdóttir, named by BHM and KI and Þorbergsdóttir, the daughter of Dárdeberg, representative of BSRB. ... ▪ Product of the work force ◯ - i.e. from the time he met, and until this report I quoted -- it was a plan for a minister's ethics, as well as a similar draft for the board's staff. These articles were presented on the board of directors' website and requested comments on them. A respectable president. Only in order to address this, since I have time, is the spirit of the principles described in the 2012 Coordination Committee report listed in the report, and I want to quote it, by permission of the President: ▪ As this description of the rules shows, their role is to speak in a general way, as well as a theme to be taken into account in everyday activities. Their goal is to provide advice that is useful in a job, without being instructed on the type of work or outcome in each case. It is very important that all users of the ethical principles recognize this basic characteristics. - Then there are a few examples. A third article in the Ministers' Rules, while a second article in the Work Programme, points to human and human rights, to be respected by the Governing Body's advisers and staff. The question, of course, is, What may be wrong with this rule? When a comment was made on the method of ethics presented by the staff in September 2009, the group was made that the government's operating program against human halls stated that the government should not have passed that government representatives are buying any form of sex service. Special attention should be given to ethical principles in this regard. As a result, the group decided to buy sex services within the rules as an example of behavior that conflicts with human values and human rights. However, continued work with the rules revealed that there was so much dissatisfaction in ethics. Also, you raised questions about a list, whether it would be right to mention more, and so on. However, the conclusion was that because of the basic issues involved in government policy, which are important to be followed in a credible way, it is reasonable to mention prostitution, especially as an example of conduct that is contrary to human resources. It does not matter whether such purchases are in this country where they are contrary to law or elsewhere, where the law may not forbid them. The third article in staff regulations and in the second paragraph of the Minister's Regulation will discuss possible conflicting interests. A minister's rules state that measures should be taken to prevent any anticipated conflict of interest, referred to in the personnel rules, to appropriate measures to prevent such association from affecting actions or decisions and to prevent them from being interpreted in the light of such links. It is assumed that individuals will use their judgment to assess the correct measures in each case. Thus, the rules only indicate that there is a need for a predictable conflict of interest or situation where it is likely that a conflict of interest will have an impact on the outcome. The rules do not issue direct action in such cases. Thus, in such cases it might be considered a violation of ethical principles not to engage in any possible conflict of interest. This is important to me in the spirit of the law by what I mentioned before and in the report. ▪ In the fourth article on the Management Board and Article 5 of the Minister's Regulation, we will consider professional evaluations: The minister will seek the professional judgment of his staff on certain matters, and the employee will seek professional judgement, as appropriate. Here, the rule applies to trusting in the judgment of those involved and their willingness to look to the best. In such cases, when making decisions, it is more important that those who make decisions do not avoid professional judgment and seek to adjust their decisions in accordance with that assessment when appropriate, than to have rules that tell them exactly how to handle matters. A respectable president. Now, my time is up, but I'll come back here in a speech to talk about more details of the bill and close the importance of considering this, just as we look at the fish lab, when we're looking at the permission of a minister to take agencies out on land, it's good to consider a recent opinion about the behavior of a minister and compare to the principles set before ministers during the last term and to wonder why, it doesn't come forward on the bill, because it is suggested that it be a prime minister of the management procedures, but that the committee should be self-involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u17	Mr. President. I thank the senator for his good speech. I'd like to stop at the end of the conference speech as far as the co-ordination committees are concerned, you see, there's one thing I don't quite get around in this bill. It is understandable in itself that the co-ordination committee has intended to carry out the task in a way that is not carried out, that is shown in a paper, and all the texts that the bill makes important; no one is questioning it. What I find incomprehensible about this is the basic premise that must exist, which is the fact that the prime minister himself is untouchable. According to the bill, the arrangement that is being suggested goes nowhere other than the fact that the prime minister is above doubt, that he does not have to ask moral questions, that he does not have to consult anyone with regard to moral standards, that he does not have to question his own judgment or moral standards at any point. I want to ask you why. A senator how he understands this, i.e. the circumstances that might arise in some world, perhaps in the world as high as possible. Prime Minister does not provide for, i.e. that the prime minister himself gets on a moral level, gets into a moral dilemma where he needs to consult, where he needs to have a conversation about moral standards - how should he turn if this bill becomes a law?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u18	Mr. President. I think, as it's suggested, it's very vague why these changes are being made. If the idea is that the project should be the same, but it's only the prime minister who's supposed to hold it, then it must be taken care of, like before. One senator noted that the prime minister is unable to make any mistakes, and he is above all doubting all things, and he does not need counsel in this regard. The Code of Civil Rules somehow goes on to suggest that they should gradually create good habits, and when people are in a gray area, or when something is going on in the government or in any other government, these customs committees can come in with tips and report and discuss matters. As soon as the ethics committee prepares rules, as she has been doing, it is also a continuation and a failure to promote trust. Trust is something we need in this society after a financial breakdown. It is not surprising that this has come in law shortly after the collapse as one way to promote increased confidence in government and government. I think that moving this over to Prime Minister and pretending that he is all - powerful is not meant to increase confidence.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u19	A respectable president. I find it very clear that the prime minister who feels that he is superior to doubt is then in that world that it is unwise to give him a moral assessment of the actions of others. I think it's clear. But I'd like to ask you why. A senator's position on the position of this bill at the time we are now, i.e. In the light of the over-and-developed minds and especially the Protestant Alliance. It is said that BHM rests completely against the bill. Why is that? It's because the Alliance is particularly concerned about this expansion of the warrants to transfer workers between recruitment and institutions, thinking that this is not in harmony with a good order and that it needs to be in good consultation with employees as it is suggested here. I want to pray. A senator informs his opinion on what sort of introduction it is that they are at odds with those who are going to agree that a large increase in the authority's resources to transfer employees from council to institutions, the same employees as hopefully trying to negotiate with them. At the same time as they're trying to negotiate, they're trying to negotiate to continue this bill to accept it when both BHM and BSRB laws have expressed strong opposition to this issue.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u20	Mr. President. Of course, it may be possible to take advantage of expertise and human resources. It may be understandable that between recruitments could be such a situation that there may be a way to use special knowledge between the recruitment agents and even between institutions, but there must be always the rights of employees. As a result, it is very understandable that BHM is completely against this bill. This is not a good introduction to the already difficult arguments. You can imagine an employee being just a little bad, he can be right, and he can be speaking for many, but managers and stewards just like to move him into the job that's why. But it should not be the spirit of the law, and it should be written clearly in which the rights of the workers are. This is how the workers' laws are adjusted. Now I'm not on the board, so I don't know exactly how to do this, whether it's here to pick up the staff law and open it up to other changes that I think are also very critical at these times, when representatives in BHM have been in a strike of over eight weeks, and the controversy there in a complete knot. I'd like to warn you about these things and suggest that you put these changes aside.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u21	Mr. President. I thank the senator for his speech. There are a lot of things in this bill, and as we discuss more, there will be more to you than that, as you would like to. About 1st. I told her yesterday in my speech that I thought the argument was very specific to her, but it says that a minister says that the seat of an institution under which he hears unless otherwise was recommended in the law. There's no evidence that this is supported by some physical reasoning. I don't think it's why it's important. Why is it necessary to be a minister who determines where an institution should be? How, for example, is it good for the Council to have these things in this way? How is that good for the land? I'm asking why. A senator how she feels about my questions about this bill and about the standards of professional management, because she and others have, including her and others, Quoted in Fishing Room. In this regard, it can also be considered whether this is compatible with the overall strategy of rural development, since it was to be the sole purpose of putting down an institution while working regularly from the region. Is it not also true that this is contrary to what was reported in the Generals' research report, which referred to a tyrant and to increasing transparency, and so forth, that one minister may suddenly be taken away from all conditions and such, determine where he sets up his organization at once?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u22	Mr. President. As I found out in my speech, I don't like it, and I don't think it really benefits anyone. I feel that by these changes, and other changes that men are talking about on other laws, as if they're trying to avoid bringing things into the Council, that they're trying to avoid arguing with members of Congress. That's not good. Then we have a natural example in front of us with a Fish Room where just saying that we're going to do this has weakened the Bureau, and it's not as capable of doing its job. This too is a very serious matter for important organizations. It has nothing to do with whether it's good to live in Akureyri or not. It's not professional or democratic, it's not humanitarian, it's not human concern. These things can be done. Of course, it should be possible to move institutions, and the situation should depend on them, and with good reason it should prove true. This needs to be done with concern for employees. I had the opportunity to observe the changes in the offices that are under the government tax managers, and I allow myself to assert that this was the very thing in mind, because it was always thinking that it is the personnel who are making the Agency what it is and therefore must be kept close in mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u23	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I can give an example of the Institute of Education, as I did in the past at the end of the council. Here we have another example where some administrative device is being created without a direct warrant, at least In the opinion of the emissary of the Generalist, who feels that it is in doubt and wants to know the answers to certain questions. That's one of the reasons why we shouldn't be talking about it. It may be wise for the council to put something like this in the process. Counts 'em out. For example, would a member of the council agree, or something like that, that we would be talking about in a Senate hall? It is also said to substantiate agencies into the Ministry or to create administrative institutions, such as the Ministry of Education, with the preordaining that the Ministry is being promoted professionally. I've wondered, " Is it a matter of supporting the Ministry or weakening agencies? ' I don't always feel quite clear about it and ask the senator if she ever wondered about it. Then there's the so-called arm length, as we have said, which is about to redefined the administrative status of Article 6. The law, but it's all summed up in the Ministry, the surveillance, the execution. It's all in the ministry, really. They are to be named at jobs designed to shape the legislation on the independent administrative committees, whether they are entitled. It hasn't been delivered yet, but it's still submitted. The Ministry believes that it may be adequate and meets the viewpoint of ensuring a certain distance from a minister to do as follows, with the permission of a president: the possibility of being employed in the Ministry's Organization to act on charges and decisions made by the government under the department is established in a special government unit within the Ministry. ◯ [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u24	Mr. President. I don't know exactly what was behind it, but those who were members of the committee are aware of it and went over it. For example, if I looked at this as an old government employee, I would look at the New Education Institute that's being united by the Board of Education and Study Research Institute and part of the Ministry and moved out to the Ministry, and it seems to me that the Ministry is weak. It may, however, strengthen the institutions. But the ministry's stroke power has been reduced after the experts are transferred into the institutions. The bill also expects that if I understand this correctly, the institutions can be drawn into the Ministry and made up a special administrative unit there. Now there may be some good reason to go so far that although I cannot see it and cannot see that it is urgent to change the law in this regard. But there'll be more informed men than I have to do better with what's happened. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u25	A respectable president. We are now in the middle of a good discussion of a matter that in itself is strange to be on the program because I cannot imagine it as a priority in the current situation. We have come out of the council program, a work programme is over. This is a case that is available on the issue of controversy because the lesser part has expressed itself contrary to the case, with an enormous amount of authority being made up to a prime minister far from being above doubt. I wondered, " Who in the hell is the president leading? ' We're having six different committee meetings this morning at the same time; six committees, both A and B committees, are meeting at the same time. We have repeatedly searched for a president to try to get a hold of what is in his power to try to bond, i.e. An organization of committees. In addition, I would like to consider the question, as regards consultations between government and government opposition as to how we are going to complete our affairs here, in view of the conclusion of a work programme.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u26	The president has tried to exert himself on no committee conflict, hoping that it would succeed. But in terms of consultation on the continuation of Congress, there is no problem. A senator realizes that such meetings have been tried, and after that, members of the council will meet in lunchtime.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u27	A respectable president. It is good to hear of a meeting with members of the council, and of course, it is clear that the prime minister has something else to think about these days than the situation here at the council. However, the fact that the council is out of control and aimlessly and without a plan runs it here from day to day without the appearance or idea of what it should be for. The government situation here at the council has shown extraordinary consideration for the administrative sector, I have to say, and an extraordinary patience with this humble practice, where there has been no schedule for days about the activities of the council, and there has been nothing for what the government expects of the council is or what the government wants it to do here. This will no longer be a pleasure, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u28	A respectable president. At the time, we received a list of the government's priorities, which included 74 cases, of which 4 have not yet come to Congress. For my fun, I got a few numbers together. There are 85 cases standing out from the top. Government. There are 140 cases that the government has proposed and will bring up accordingly, i.e. 136 and 4 remaining cases. The priority list to the highest. A government has presented more than half of all the government's affairs and will bring up this council, i.e. She's going to take less than half of it from September to June and do a little more than half, which is supposed to be our priority in June, today or tomorrow or what, you don't know, this is the situation we're in. And I have to agree with what. A senator who spoke earlier that the smaller part has been incredibly generous in recent times of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u29	V.E.G. President. I can't remember whether it was this week or at the end of the last time that the presidents of the political parties found and put out a list of 70 priorities. It is news of the list that a health committee is doing well working in that spirit, but we are not allowed to have meetings. Now I don't agree with these 70 priorities, and I'm not giving anything out on that. It's very strange, though, that people who feel that they get them over 70 matters do not have the right to work on these matters. We are here in a position where we could request Godot: What is the goal, what is to do here, and when should we get clear lines about the program and the possible time of committees to complete the events that can be completed?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u30	The president would like to state for this reason that the president has responded well when a special committee meeting has been requested and has delayed meetings so that they can be.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u31	Mr. President. One situation here at a council hall, which does not raise one's hopes that an agreement can be made entirely soon, but the other is the case with members of the council. I don't feel that there is a positive sign of cooperation on the part of the Commission when we are so far into the council that, in effect, it does not appear to be a witness in some committees that there is any effort to take on a program of matters that come from the government side but that are also brought by other members of Congress, where all reviews are positive, suggesting whether it is intended or willing to take over. I feel very sorry about this, and that doesn't make me want to cooperate either in the committees or here, nor when the members of the Parliament in the committees want to cooperate, but instead of trying to make peace.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u32	A respectable president. It's been a while since me and others began to draw attention to this team, to the President's conference board, that the council is out of control, that is, without a meeting period for committees, meeting classes, and there are no real palatations in progress, or talks between the representatives of the council here at the council to resolve this situation. I don't think I've ever seen it this bad. I wondered, " What's the number one role? ' President in this position? When so many cases are available, you have to make a deal, don't you? The senators must yield their rights, their Constitutional and legal rights to speak in matters, that is what they have to make a deal. The government has to tell you what subjects it considers necessary to come through. We've got 74 cases, kind of all the cases the government has. [[The president calls.]] Many of them are still under committees, some not yet mentioned. [[The president calls.]] It's going to be the best. Don't you think Mr. President would use his program and authority inside to do something other than just tap the bell and step into this sequence of events and make some offer of reconciliation? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u33	A respectable president. Last Friday, the council was to complete according to the Congress's work programme. What is currently available is a list of all possibilities, even cases that are not yet included in the council or that have been recommended. Clearly, then, there is a total lack of control. In this situation, I would like to ask the president when he intends to meet with the heads of the crew at the General Assembly in an effort to initiate a new plan. That's my first question. Then again, I would like to ask if the president is in any way trying to figure out the situation on each committee and then try to tailor a meeting table for the committees, so that they can work their own business, and also accept Congress and other matters that we would like to include in the discussion first members of the council will continue here. These are two questions, and I hope for a clear answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u34	The president has observed developments in the committees and has responded favorably when an extra session has been requested and tried to make sure that they do not meet, so that members of the Parliament are in a position to attend meetings. As for meetings with the class leaders, such a meeting has been held, and the president of the United States, of course, hopes that there may be a continuation of such meetings that he realizes is the key to reaching out for the job here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u35	Mr. President. It's nice to hear that the president believes he has a perspective on the committee work. There are obviously a number of cases in there, and it is as obvious that if the situation continues as we look, we will not be neglecting the situation, we just have to get the pill back in motion, and then we can do it in the usual way. It is quite clear that there is no breach in communication, if the prime minister is rigid about not wanting to talk to the official stand--and that is the way, a respectable president, that's the situation today, it's quite safe to say it -- the case is so that we need to meet and we have to set up a schedule here, both a work programme and a committee plan. And until it becomes clear that the Minister is pleased to make a meeting, I think it would be wise, whether for a week, for ten days or a half months, or whatever it is that the President is now counting on to do. If it did in the meantime, it would. The prime minister would be able to show up here and talk to the directors of the opposing parties.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u36	President. I figure there's a fifth in the intermission, as it were. It was ten days ago that a respectable president made a sound, and some of us thought in his childhood that he was going to bring up some program on how to complete Congress, but instead he threw in a bomb in which he said he would dissipate a work plan and had no plan to finish these matters. Since then, meetings with government leaders have shown that they have more than 70 priorities. Didn't someone say we finished 55 cases from the government all winter, and now they come in the fifth in recess and say: 70 cases, do they finish immediately? It's probably not an acceptable, respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u37	Mr. President. Today, those who are older than 20 years of age know exactly what is going on. What's going on is that you don't get signed, and then the smaller part is always in slow motion, it's called being in first gear and being patient. It's called to Congress, and this is the situation. That's what President knows, everybody knows. That knows the best. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. Secretary of finance. And we delay, and we cause social damage. When members of another party harm a third party, someone should intervene, asking ourselves, " Who can intervene? ' V.E.G. The President can intervene. He can say to members who share, "Now sit in the room. " I'm not excusing any matters, I'm not putting any issues on the program, I'm posting meetings until you sit in your rooms and solve this dispute. This is what the president would do if he was the president of the council beyond being the president of the board. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u38	President. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Ólafsson gets to the core of the situation, and I challenge the president to show a certain amount of effort and to lay the lines. The lines are supposed to be that there will be no meetings of any kind until it is settled and the solution will be found to the problem of today's government's greed. I don't really know what to use for it, but it's the kind of greatness that makes it impossible, because we're out of a work programme. Actually, the president should cut down half of the list before we're called back to a meeting. I demand that a meeting be delayed, and the president be tempted to set up a meeting and deny that there will be any case until the presidents of the government classes are prepared to lay a serious proposal on the table for the presidents of the government position.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u39	Mr. President. I'd like to express my joy that the president is going to meet with the head of the council afterwards. I am also glad that the president is observing what is happening on the committees. The situation in some of these is that a good deal of agreement is in danger because the committee leaders want to get them through, thinking that they are priorities without the agreements being negotiated for the 74 cases. It is, of course, that we all know that the 74 cases are not being started and through the council at the position we are now, we would not even be able to resolve them before the next council began. So priorities are essential. It is also a concern for the matters being carried out that identify what subjects are to be focused on.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u40	Mr. President. Clearly, there has to be some hard work to develop in this workplace. Of course, we are in a void, and our government has every right to consult with her on how we complete this council. We cannot be responsible for the fact that the government department has come in too late with many matters and is not actually having a case yet to be done at this council. It's below all the caves. V.E.G. The president spoke of committees at work and observed that they had a time, but the committees overlap. This morning, for example, at the same time as the members of both committees, a health committee and a professional committee were meeting, so it's not okay. You can't accept this. The situation must begin to take action, and we cannot accept that our workplace, our lot, is in total turmoil, and we stick our heads in the sand and stubbornly continue, as the Supreme One does. Prime Minister does.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u41	A respectable president. It is, as usual, that it does not stand for five members of the council here at the council, i.e. All members of Congress, I think it may be safe to state, unless the Congress party's party is able to find a way to complete the Senate work successfully. It is the traditional seasonal celebration that has begun here at the General Assembly, which goes by the name of Sigmundi, David Gunougsson, which is simply the 63 people who work here, which are hard to negotiate, and are discussed as to who should be held. Of course, there can be a certain understanding of these days that there are other things that the prime minister needs to consider, but it is proper to simply cut off the activities of the council until the government knows what they want, when they want it, and if they want to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u42	President. There's no need to recall it, it's been repeated here -- and I expect the highest. The president is quite prepared - that the council's work programme was completed on Friday. A meeting was held with the presidents of the political parties in Iceland. What happened at that meeting? A list was provided under the heading "Preparation. " The list contained 74 cases. This happened on the day before yesterday. It is not simply because of the repeated problems and failure of the government's office that there is no escape from the government, it is not available. But now I ask, Is there a way of avoiding the Council? The separation of the European Commission and the legislature of the European Commission is a way in which we should be able to maintain the dignity of the legislature work that we do well despite Prime Minister Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, who is now taking matters into his own hands but who will not be inviting us to a lunch meeting for an evening meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u43	Mr. President. I must now declare a certain disappointment by it, as shown here, that the meeting of the classes was held on Monday, that's Wednesday today, and nothing's happened since. The directors of the board expressed their determination to complete all their affairs and plan to complete most of them now after the General Work Programme has concluded. This is against the highest level. The president has been giving a brief talk about how he wants to see the Senate. I want to challenge the highest. President to set the officers of the administrations against a wall. It can't come in here late and then run into a perfect kaos right here at the end of the council. I agree with what's happened here. Councilmen. There seems to be no avoiding the committees of what matters should be completed and who not, unless you really believe that the proceedings of late and ill - treatment are going to be carried out, and then you expect a work programme to be interrupted. That, Mr. President, of course, is not going to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u44	V.E.G. President. I'm the head of the World Health Committee of the Generals, and I view it as my duty to try to get things to the best part of it and to get them out of the committee quickly and safely. Thus we have worked on a welfare committee, and this cooperation has been very successful. The situation is now that we have two top-of-the-line executives, which we agree we want to replace the committee. We're running to a meeting for half an hour, an hour - sometimes an hour and a half - hour - but the situation also exists that a statement by the government has been made on behalf of agreements, including important matters, such as housing matters we would like to receive information on the Committee. We in the smaller part also want to talk to the highest. Social and housing minister on how to improve the quality of social security in relation to this collective agreement. I ask, "Where shall I find the time to have such a meeting with the highest level of information? " Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u45	In the past, the president has said that he is truly willing to pay for having committee meetings and making room for that in the council program, which is informal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u46	A respectable president. I'm gonna put in my pavilion assessment of the position and the highest. The president, such as what he does with it, is in charge. But I appreciate it so that the situation is the highest. Mr President is waiting too much for the highest power. Prime Minister and therefore do little. On the other hand, I think the highest. The prime minister gives no idea of how the council must operate, shows no respect for the council, and realistically does not have anything upbuilding to offer in the way we should negotiate the end of the council. I want to challenge the highest. President to stop waiting for prime minister. I think the highest. The prime minister has simply played himself in a corner. He does not qualify for the talks of the packs, and I request that the prefects who can meet at a meeting and continue the conversation that began on Monday. I don't care whether this meeting is between Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson or not. I don't think it would be worse if he wasn't at that meeting. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u47	Mr. President. This was the ten - year legion of the legion of prime minister, and it seems that the situation has come back that this council is at the highest point. Prime Minister. I have a question for the highest. Is it with his consciousness and will that at least some committees of the council seem to be resorted to violence to prevent suggestions that may be moved by the government but are not even taken on the program? It's the best. Mr President that it's a procedure that's likely to pay for action? There have been members of the Cabinet, e.g. Some members of the Independence Party, and they spoke of the need to adopt a new method of action but then participate in the entirely modern use of this council, to remind the members of the Parliament's committees that his proposals are not even discussed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u48	Although the President is following the committees as closely as he can, the president has not been so alert to any questions he might ask. Senator. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u49	A respectable president. Not the government, not the highest. The president has several plans for completing this council. Nor do people have a plan on what they want to finish. This is best illustrated by what happened yesterday, for example, on the Environment and Transport Committee, when the decision was made to pull out the matter, clearly in a conflict with the team of cooperaters, and then the opposition was to deal with the situation afterwards. This sort of thing is about to happen when there's no control and it's not known how you're going to proceed with the Senate, then things like this happen. Our time and energy are not well spent in this way, as well as the very face of our work. I think that the President should now admit defeat in all of this, put down a meeting plan, a new work programme that we can work in after the next few weeks, and also put down the meetingap because it doesn't work that committees are meeting one another. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u50	V.E.G. President. It's a bit sad to be in this position and to be addressing the highest. A president on the conduct of the council, took note of the speech being the highest. At the beginning of the council, the president stated that the matter should soon enter the council, and it should work more effectively on them. In the meantime, each big issue after another has been in a conflict between government parties. We have a transport program that has just entered the council, and we've waited for a month, so it's the highest. President is pity. V.E.G. Again and again, the president reiterates that he is trying to bring up the committee, but what are the committees supposed to be meeting? We've got a big deal in there, and we're supposed to shovel in the bucket all over the place. We have no idea what any of these matters are going to be over, not an idea. So, shall we finish all of them? I'm going to the top. President to stay until the fall to get these 140 cases through, that's 50 of them? [[The president calls.]] It would be an important statement, then let's just keep shoveling, but the pointlessness is just as it is right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u51	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying I don't have anything to go to the conference board. President to set up, I think he's running the council with a lot of character, and I'd like to suggest that we continue our program, as it is enough to take over. I'd judge by the fact that Pirata's representative in this discussion. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir, suggested that half of the list of cases be cut off. I thought our discussion was about the subject, but not the number of the cases here to go through, so I find this to be a very special comment. I'd like to have a moment of brief history. I've been at a council for six years. At the end of the council, there is always the same agitation in the opposition to government when the art is presented, no matter who is in a position of government at any given time. The list usually contains all the matters that the government has put in place, and I think people should focus on what matters in this discussion, discussing the President's conference board, but not on being an actor. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u52	A respectable president. I'll have to correct one thing right now. 4th, including South K., Konráðsdóttir, when she speaks of the exemplary government of a respected president of the council. The Honourable President of the High Generals has no control over the council. V.E.G. This has been taken hostage by the prime minister. With regard to a number of cases. paritaprevir Konráðsdóttir Konásdótsdóttir also introduced this priority list as the title of a priority list. I don't know what others think first, but when people put something first, they put it in front of something else, because they want to make sure that it's ahead of something else. The list of priorities is made up of more than half of all the cases proposed by the government. There is no priority list. Now, if this is a priority, why are we discussing matters that are in conflict rather than the many acceptable matters, and we could be punching through, one after the other? [[The president calls.]] Why? Yes, because a respectable president does not have control over the council. He doesn't have a say in here. It's the highest. Prime Minister. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u53	About a question why. A senator, I think. A senator knows the answer. The president tried to put matters on a schedule that was unconcerned. Some of them had a modest walk in the discussion, but everyone realizes that there was a lot of conversation that matters didn't give in themselves, and we know it, sooner and later, so in this situation when a conclusion has not been reached.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u54	A respectable president. I find a small donation when the president says, "We know it's been like this, and it's always gonna be like this. " And what? paritaprevir Konráðsdóttir Konásdótsdóttir, who can be commended for being here and speaking of the matter, will belittled when we discuss the meeting director's committee and tell him we should discuss the issues. Yes, let's discuss the issues, the fine senator and a respectable president, that's for sure, but then we have to set out a realistic plan. Hv. paritaprevir Konráðsdóttir Konástsdótttir knows far better than to think that it's realistic that we finish 70 and something in maybe three weeks. That's why there's a plan that's going to stand up for common sense is absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u55	President. Off-limit cases. Is this the subject we should address below undisputed? No, it's not. I want to agree with what. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's scandal that it sucks that no member of Congress case, or almost no one, should have its own career. They are all in some dam in the committees, and even though the issues were presented at the beginning of the council, they are still presenting matters that have been the priority of the classes. I have to say, I think it's incredibly lame when senators say that it's okay to have an unremarkable, unsecure government because it's always been that way. Where are all the promises of improved work at the Council, anyway? paritaprevir Is Konráðsdóttir Konlasdótttir? Where are they? It is not acceptable to hide behind the fact that others make things miserable, that is not available.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u56	Mr. President. I think it's fine to the highest. The president is trying to keep in mind that regular committees can meet and that their meeting times do not overlap, but that is not enough because of the overlap. Like a snooze. paritaprevir The Guðbjartur son of Hannesson came on to know that we are on the committees; neither are we aware of the priorities and what is really going to happen at this council. That is why it is so important that there will be a work schedule that we can apply, so I think it's a very good suggestion that has been proposed for a premeditation hearing. Then they will meet just the presidents of the political parties who want to come and make a decision, make a deal with them on the remaining issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u57	Mr. President. It's bad to have to face the fact that we're actually in the highest hostage crisis. Prime Minister. All spears are directed to the Supreme Man of the Government, Supreme Court. Prime Minister. He's the foreman of this government, and he's not doing his job. That's just reality. And his party, the advance party, will either have to install a replacement or act on it. You can't expect this council to be subjected to some freckles, men who have never had to give up and who can't negotiate through things. But the reality seems to be that way. A prime minister cannot handle his trust. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] Then you have to step in and I'm gonna put my trust in the highest power. The senator's president, who is our foreman, who works at this workplace.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u58	Mr. President. I'm just saying every word I have. The last speaker spoke. With regard to committee work and the fact that I can also feel certain surrender in that case, if the highest level. The president feels that it doesn't matter which cases are on the program, that they will be spoken out in the infinite. I don't agree with that. For example, I assumed that the cases of the General and Education Committee, which have been at the back of the program all the time, would be further, more and less shared, since we could have reached some agreement. I'm not saying that there was no part in them at all, but I'm saying that we could have at least settled into a committee we have to replace with a case that was known from the previous discussion to be in conflict and would be in conflict and most who speak are not content with it, i.e. on the side of the government. Thus, I feel that a certain surrender is not important in the program.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u59	A respectable president. There's a very specific misdirection to listen to Captain Porta's problem with other members of the council about doing a change of practice here at the council, leading here along with the other members of Porta and the minor party of a masked speech at this council. In this situation, it is informative to review some comments from the last term, including the above: At that time, members of the council who are present in the hall are saying: "I protest that the government's opposition can speak so that it can offer more than a portion of the U.S. It is a matter of Congress in this country, and that is part of the United States of Congress and his will that must govern the work of the council. This position of government is so small that it tries to prevent more part from making its point of view. This is how you can proceed. Of course, taking control of the council and the contingency of the council and making progress on behalf of the government is a very well - invited part of the smaller part. I think that's what we're talking about. Congress members of the smaller section should begin to say that if there's something they want to do by talking about it, they're changing the practice at the General Assembly. [[Up front.]] They're not doing that. They are a disgrace to the council, to the shame of the council, and to the shame of themselves. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u60	V.E.G. President. I think it would be important if we could get the discussion that was here, too, when men were writing and saying, "You're going through with seven cases, then there were 70-580 on the list, you pick it up. [[Up front.]] Pick, seven, of course, a lot of cases on the list at the time, not the priority. But what we're doing here, we know that there's a case here that has one opinion and we've said it because of the attitude of previous government opposition, I feel that it's only possible that we're going through every case that's incontrovertible, so we don't end up with an EEA case that's waited year after year because they didn't let the former government go through. We want to change this, but we also know that there are five to ten issues in big conflict, and some of them are in so much trouble because of the idea of helping the council, as it were. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, by dropping bombs and then resorting to violence during the council to try to get them through, receive abackup, or support from, as they say, their troops. Take the matter into consideration, which is not a disagreement, let us define matters that are at odds, and discuss how they will be completed. Of course, some of them go through; some of them, of course, but it's violence when people come through with a wide variety of suggestions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u61	A respectable president. I just don't feel like it's over with this discussion about the President's conference board. In view of it as a dog. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson said before, I'm just gonna let myself tell you that if he's been watching the conversation, he's noticed a pattern in the answers and the conference management, and it doesn't mean anything for him to come up here and talk about filacies at this point. The government situation has recently been a peacemaker in an effort to find a way to negotiate with this greater part. It hasn't worked out. I know it's not why. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son is to blame, mainly at the highest level. The prime minister was to teach. Not that I'mlittleing it as a boy. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson did here a few weeks ago, but as it is now, it is not long before it is due to return at the council. In fact, I think it's fine that we discuss this bill in this situation where the President's conference board is being discussed, and that discussion is well considered far from the end, as I think everyone must agree. There's a lot of disagreement about Presidential Conference and there's a lot of disagreement on the progress at the General General, and then we're here to discuss the President's conference board. That's what it's for. He'd like to have more time and more conversation in my opinion. But the President's conference board, as it would appear to us today, and perhaps the conference director, so to speak, will remind us of the fundamental issues we should discuss here. The fundamental thing is the phenomenon of power. Power is repugnant. And when there's power left in people who don't know how to handle it, we shouldn't just stop and think it through, then we should fight back. The bill we're discussing here is about power. What's the top order? Prime Minister with this bill? Yes, like so many times before, he wants more power. However, the objective of the bill under the summary of the General Assembly on the case, by permission of the President, is to enhance the flexibility of the European Commission to organize its activities. V.E.G. Government has nothing to do with more power, it needs less power, it is the council that needs more power than anything else is the nation that needs more power. She needs more power over us, and we need more power over government here at the High Council. There are three things I would like to discuss regarding the bill. First, it is that a minister will determine the location of the institutions, as has been discussed here very much. Of course, we are in the fresh memory of the city's fishing business, which seems to have ended with the removal of Fish Room. Now, for a long time, I have no particular opinion about the exact location of the Fish Room in itself. What I love about making decisions, however, is that they are taken along with those who should come into this matter. Clearly, the highest. A minister was going to move a Fish Room without having the legal warrant, and then when it came up, he would just jump on a bill and give it a warrant unless, of course, this warrant is to be universal. And I say for my part, away from the decision of the Fish Room, as reprehensible as all that compromise was, I think the work is the highest. A government is already in place of decisions such as the location of Fish Labs simply not to inspire enough confidence that I trust the government with this authority. In effect, though, I do not necessarily feel that the high Council is necessarily to determine the location of every institution - sometimes, not always. But the way the government exercises its authority tells me that what I most want to do here at the High Council is to give the highest power. A government more power, more power to one or no one, on the contrary, I want to reduce it. And I hope that in the next term, someone will review this talk, if that is the case. Second, it is the decomposition of cohesion committees on moral standards that are also displayed in this bill. It is true what happened earlier in the case of the day. 5th a.m. Smoke. So, Svandís Svavarsdóttir, that the co-ordination committee on moral standards is laid down and her work is moved to prime minister, appeared to a man when he is actually a prime minister. That makes no sense to me. I don't know how to complain about it anymore. I think it's kind of funny how it's done. Prime Minister thinks he can wield power. He does not qualify, and he repeatedly shows it. A human suspected such things from the beginning, but it becomes increasingly evident that the highest prime minister is not in control of his work and is not qualified for power, either to be the highest power. Prime Minister or second secretary's office, in my opinion and in many others. The best thing you can say about putting down a communication committee on moral standards and moving its workspace to the highest level. The prime minister is now a terrible time point. This is bad, not just because it's the best. So the prime minister, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, saw from the person who sat on the chair, is time very bad, so that, of course, no more is said because of the leaky language that the person here would mean that he was not quite finished. There are loose ends of that matter and I don't see to it that its end is soon compared to the way it's been done in this case since the beginning of the Supreme Court. By thinking that teaching, teaching, or media, or someone other than the highest, is somehow the government's opposition. that's the Minister of the Interior, and then, of course, the highest. The government how it did not deal with it in any way. I don't mention it because I really want to get the leak case back on the schedule here and now under this team, but because the leak case is a recent example in which it has tried the standards of the world. Governments. Then I'll go to the third part of the case, which is registration protocol, i.e. formal contact of verse means important communication. There's another point in this bill that's been trying late at the highest level. Government. Of course, when we have a very recent example of certain legal practices, we are to evaluate them and compare them with the reasons we have for considering and the issues we have most in mind, in recent and overwhelming, and seemingly endless, the leaky matter. As for the registration of formal communication to important ones, this change will occur in Article 4. The bill, by permission of the President: ▪ Instead of the word "formable " at 1 mgr. 1 1. The law comes: important. What I find a little interesting about this change is, first of all, the timing. This 1 1 thr. legislation on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland No. 115/2011, has recently been approached by General's agent in the leak case and is directly concerned with the leak problem due to the public communication. Minister of the Interior to the highest degree. that's the police chief Stefán Eiríksson. There's a complaint about failure in registration. The bill is written in view of this point because its authors thought it was difficult to harmonize this with what I don't fully understand, and I find the term "formable" rather simple. If we compare the terms "improved" and "possible" and how disproportionate it is, in fact, to replace the term "spellable" to "temptible" is an example to explain things to us that we are here at a formal meeting, but is this important meeting? I don't think that's in the light of what we're talking about, considering what we should be talking about outside of the fact that the practice here does not offer at an important meeting at the moment. Somehow, everything has to be fried for a while, thanks to the highest. Prime Minister and all of that, I have considered it quite well in this speech. But we can all agree that this is a formal meeting. We can say that this is a formal matter. We cannot say that this is an important matter for Congress. We can say it's a formal speech, we can't say that this is an important speech, at least not everyone would agree on that, that's ecstatic. What is formal, especially because of Article 11. The law is specifically given to the highest. The prime minister is given further rules about what is formal and what is not. So I don't see what kind of trouble they're trying to solve unless they're trying to get things out of their heads, trying to make the article less clear so that it's easier for the top. Minister to answer questions about communication by saying: "No, we didn't consider this to be important communication. This was certainly formal, or informal, communication, but not important communication. I wondered why they put this into the bill in the first place, and I don't think the explanation that comes with the bill goes anywhere near explaining anything. But then the matter will be more interesting, a more dignified president. The report then shows that the majority of the cases are mentioned. The management and monitoring committee, which is accompanied by a change in proposal. I must say, I'm very comfortable with her, I think she's very good, but she's like this, with President's permission: ◯4. par. put it this way: 1.mg. 1 1. The law says: For formal communication and meetings, as well as informal contact should be submitted if considered important, between recruitment of the Council of Government as well as non-participants. I think this is a good change because it actually returns this change that followed the bill, which was simply taking out formal communication and putting important relationships in place, preferring that formal communication and meeting together as well as informal communication should be recorded, if considered important. Of course, this is a natural solution. But it just raises the question again: Why was it different in the bill? Why is this so important? The prime minister forwards a bill of this change? Why? To whom would that help? Yes, it would have helped the highest. ... thena cabinet minister in the leak business. I don't know if this conspiracy theory is unsurpassed by the General but by the highest standards. The prime minister and his attitude and their association with authority are worth asking with great suspicion why he suggests changes in communication at the highest level. Governments to external or internal bodies. For one thing, for these reasons I reiterate what I said near the beginning of my talk: Power is repugnant. Power is disgusting. We are to despise authority. Power is something that we should try to limit as much as possible, making it mainly with the distribution of power and freedom, distribution of power and freedom in the form of democracy and civil rights. Note that there are restrictions on the authority of the government and the building of so - called Western democracy that governments simply cannot do what they want. That's the top one. On the other hand, the prime minister seems to feel that he can do what he wants, and he does not only what he thinks he can do but also out of his reach. But the foundation of a civilized democracy is that authority is limited, severely limited. When we face situations like ours today in the council and in society and in the government, the last thing we should be doing is increasing the authority of the government. It is the opposite of what we should be doing. We should be increasing the authority of the people in as far as possible, the right of the people to make decisions on their own matters, the right of inhabitants to make decisions about their own matters, the right of individuals to make decisions about their own matters. A respectable president. Now that I have a little more time, I'd like to consider that the freedom of the individual and democracy are two sides of the same phenomenon, of self-determination. However, there is a difference between government, General and public self - determination in that governments such as the high Council and the Supreme Assembly. Governments, such rulers must only do what is specifically permitted. They are forbidden to do anything except what they are specifically allowed to do while doing so in contrast with the public. Everything in the public can be done except what is specifically forbidden. There is a very important difference between how the mattresses between power and freedom work. That is why we have laws about how governments should behave. That's because of the highest. A government, and the Council, needs special permission to do what it does. And when we choose to give it more power, we need to have it crystal clear why and what the consequences will be. In this case, I think it's neither, except in that we're seeing that it's more power. That alone should mean that we are against this, considering our current position at the highest level. Governments and the High Generals. Both have very little confidence in society and rightly so. We're not doing our job here, neither the high Council nor, of course, not the highest. Government. We're not gonna be okay. If we did, we would have a humble attitude toward the common people to ask ourselves, " Is there a little too much authority on our part? ' Our job is to serve the interests of the country. That sounds obvious. No one would go up here in a pit and say something against it as far as I know, but we should keep it. Then we should not increase the authority of the government or the council but increase the nation's authority. Speaking of which, since I have three minutes left, I'm going to go again and again to establish a formal procedure in the constitution that the nation, the longest of all, can call for a binding national bill on the matter of Congress that has been prepared by the General Assembly. I believe this is the absolute basis for things to improve in the high Council. If they have no means, and today they have no way to influence the work of the council, at least no legitimate and civilized way, while that is so, we cannot expect that the nation will respect this important organization, the high Council, and not the highest degree. A government and while there is no respect for authority, we have a problem that has caused us to view it as a problem. Instead of wearing this suit in this fine suit, which is respectable because there's a lot of access here for the disabled, but all this equipment, these beautiful pictures, these beautiful halls, this beautiful accent, this beautiful dress, that respectable word, that respectable President, is a delusion, only unless the nation has respect for us for other reasons too. That respect must come from the nation and only the way to the high Council and the Supreme Court. Once again, a government can gain the respect of the nation is that the high Council and the highest. Governments treat the nation with the same dignity and respect. That's why I can't imagine supporting this bill under these circumstances, even if for some of these changes there's an extraordinary question of time and in the overall context, because the bill increases the authority of the government, and I'm basically against it while the situation is just the way it is. We should not even think about it. Next, but most important, I'd like to mention your priorities. Is this really a important bill? No, it's not. There's nothing to make it acceptable. It is absurd that we are talking about this when 74 priorities await the highest level. Prime Minister to get some kind of payment, whether positive or negative or whatever. All of this is preposterous, priority, and schedule is preposterous, behavior highest. Even in important matters, I would also consider our conduct at the great General Assembly. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u62	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for his speech. He brought in some interesting lines of power and how it can work in a number of ways. We know the power, the abuse of power, the use of force. Power is very difficult, and at times it has been said: " Choose whose side it is. ' We who wish to live in a democratic society want to have power distribution among our subjects to the fullest extent possible. We're at a council that's democratic, we live in Congress, we have a council member who's elected every four years. I believe a representative democracy is good as far as it goes, but we also need to be able to refer large cases to the nation, I think it's very important that we put such regulations into the constitution. Only with regard to what is recorded in Article 1. The law says that a minister has the authority to decide by himself, on his own, where institutions are located, i.e. If they were transferred from the capital area to the country - I would like to hear the attitude of the people. A senator with regard to whether he believes that things can be done in ways other than this and sees them for democratic actions here at the council, and he also thinks that moving jobs to the public sector is part of the distribution of power, that power and institutions come closer to people wherever they live in the country. No matter where we live, we all pay our taxes and our social obligations, and we want to have services and various institutions, whether branch or otherwise, in our environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u63	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator in particular for this wonderful question, which concerns the distribution of power and the location of the institutions in that context. For one thing, it is for these reasons that I have no particular opinion about whether the Fishing Room should be in Hafnarfjörður or anywhere else. But if we are going to set the location of the institutions according to the standards as possible. A senator mentioned, i.e. to power distribution, it should be the standard, but it is suggested here that it is simply a minister of advice. In the light of how the highest is. Minister has authority, especially the highest. Prime Minister and others of the highest degree. Ministers in this government, I don't trust them to locate institutions on objective terms, I simply don't trust them to do that. They have done nothing or said, indicating that they are worthy of it. To tell me, I'd be very interested in discussing here the ideas that were going on in terms of the establishment of the institutions for power distribution, I think it's a very interesting project; I'd be very interested in it, that's why I think this is a great question. But this cannot be done simply by giving more authority to the government or to the individual minister. It's more relevant to a project that takes into account the population and employment status, the loss of the last decades, or anything like it, for the objective reasons we can discuss here on the basis of available data, on grounds we can evaluate. That's not the question we're facing here. The question we face here, and now it's this: We trust the highest. The prime minister to determine where his institutions are located? Do we trust him in making relative decisions? The answer in my case is definitely no, I don't trust him to do that, and therefore I could never accept this proposal. But I would love to discuss a suggestion that would be closer to it as a matter of course. A senator mentions.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u64	Madam President. As you think more about these matters, of course, you can see the course of the past few years in these matters has been very random and under the heel of a government or a minister at any time when men have decided to put off their operations in any part of the country. More often than not, it has been very close to the minister in his district, and perhaps not always a great deal of professional knowledge or preparation. Of course, there should be some official policy on this big issue, that the country as a whole is mapped, which places are suitable for the work, branch, or organisations, to see what we say in the matter, what is a territory to take over. The areas that build on fishing are more practical than others to receive similar functions and agricultural areas are more suitable for accepting institutions based on such knowledge. I feel that this should not only be one minister's decision but also the longer, between terms, and the country's core areas, as well as the less opportunities to take on telecommunications, for those who can, in the light of modern technology, accept such projects. But this kind of force only brings bad blood to everyone and this mission - i.e. to try to distribute and expand public high - paying jobs in the country in many cases, in order to strengthen the force along the way - has put down this work programme at the highest level. Minister. I'd like to hear what we're doing. A senator thinks about these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u65	A respectable president. In the foundation, I'm very into the distribution of power, and that's one of the basic projects I have in my consideration here and I would like for some long-term process to be going on about how the institutions were being worked out. It is also true, as it were. One senator noted that many jobs had to be in place before because they were there, but that is not necessarily the case anymore. Many things can be done by the Internet and technology that could not be done before. On the other hand, there are other organizations that cannot move on that basis. A fine example is a insurance agency that has a lot to do with clients who cannot travel easily, even little or nothing. It is very important for the Agency to be simply where most are of people or most are of people who are motorized and who have to use the ministry most. It is the group of clients, so that not necessarily everything could be done over the Internet, people must be there to talk or fight with staff or whatever they have to do in their dealings with the government's insurance agency. There are a number of reasons behind every legitimate and grammatical decision in my opinion. This is something that should be done on a special project that was headed for a specific purpose. For example, one very legitimate and good goal in my view was power distribution. Another would be the construction of the country. More important, the services provided by the agency are good enough for all involved. As I say, technology can be used very much, but all of this needs to be considered from specific criteria but simply to make it easier for the government to move the institutions. That's the only goal I'm going to see with this bill, and it's in a summary, the only goal is to make life easier for the government. [[The president calls.]] I don't think it's a legitimate goal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u66	A respectable president. The Senator is fine to tap a little different than usual in this room, and at least it shakes up my brain cells. Power is repugnant, he says, and it can truly be accepted in certain cases. Power is naturally repugnant if it is mistaken. But I do not think that we will never get away from anyone having more power than others. The legislature has power, and the senator himself has sought to be here, expected to wield this authority. The Senator says: "People don't respect us, and we need to do something in order to be respected. Should we then respect the authority we have? You see, I don't think it's supposed to be about it. It's about how we act and how we react. I think it's a key here that those who use the power show respect for authority and therefore handle it with caution. But I think I'd be a bit scared if the others who didn't always show respect for that power. I think it's going to turn that way. I'd like to ask you, too. A senator does not find it a little difficult for him to discuss such matters as the fact that we are involved, such as in this bill, with individuals. Maybe it's because it's a bit self-involved by the government. But we're always linking this kind of thing to characters, and we really shouldn't do it here at the General. [[The president calls.]] We're not connected with law laws to persons. Can he agree with me on that?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u67	A respectable president. I wholeheartedly agree that we should not link laws with persons, but that is why it is important that we speak very openly when it seems that the legislation is made for the persons of certain ministers or their political interests, I think. I don't know anything about the highest character. Prime Minister, but I strongly criticize him because the one sitting in that chair right now is, in my opinion, completely inappropriate to the work, and we are to talk about it openly and without being afraid to mention his name as "Sigmur Davíð Gunnlaugsson." That's his name, and he's that man. In my opinion, he can't handle the job, and it seems to me that it's reflected in every job here. To the philosophical side only. A senator who seems quite more interesting to me than a person of the highest rank. Prime Minister. We will never escape the fact that some have power beyond others. That's right. Hence, it is important that we have a constitution, so it is important that the nation has ways to intervene as rulers. I know we'll never live in a perfect world where no one has power over others, but that's exactly why we shouldn't pretend we can live in that world. This means that we need limitations. That means we have to have a system to disseminate power, in order to eliminate power, etc. We don't have this process right now except through elections every four years. I say for myself that I sat down at a council to give the people more power over their own lives as well as the common people in the form of democracy. That's my main work here, and that's what I think most of all is that we do. I didn't come into the Council to reach out for power, and I don't fully understand the way I think if I'm saying just right now, I don't realize it, I'm just so stupid. Most important of all, that is what happened. A senator asks about, which I find very interesting, i.e. whether people should respect our authority if we have one - I don't remember how. A senator put it, and I'll get to it in return. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u68	A respectable president. Of course, things may always get personal in some way in politics, such as anywhere else. I wasn't speaking specifically of the highest character. However, as Prime Minister, Prime Minister Sigmundur, the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, is involved. But what I was trying to say in my previous answer is that I feel that this connection to persons is a symptom of too many of our jobs, but perhaps it's because some of these types of freckles are asked that we go to Šsumur in person and say, "Is this person trustworthy to this or the other person? If we make such issues as the exception of a social board on moral rules, that might be the case with a suggestion of some person whom we would all agree to be a good role model. What would you do? Do you remember them saying, "Yes, fine, because this person is religious? Perhaps it would be a philosopher or an ethic or one such as a member of the prime minister's chair. If so, remember: Yes, that's okay because there's a fine person who can be trusted to wield that power. You see, that's exactly what we can't do, because when we put laws, such as when we put off such a coordination committee, we have to assume that all kinds of people can come in there. And that's what I think the legislation has to do with something. Hence, we need to tear away from the fact that we always associate it with persons. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u69	A respectable president. I can agree with that. A senator on some of this matter. We can totally skip using the highest name. If people feel better about them, prime minister. We can completely avoid talking about his person. We might as well say the highest. Prime Minister and we would face the same questions as the answer would be the same. It's the highest. The prime minister in general is trustworthy in determining for himself the development of moral rules? In my opinion, no. In view of conduct, the highest. Whatever the case, the answer is definitely no. That, however, is an important point. A senator came on, which is that we in general should not assume for certain persons on the throne of power. When it comes to power, we must always bear in mind that there may be worse rulers later, so even if we look past them at the highest. The prime minister who is now seated, even though we may overlook the former supreme. Premiers whom I trust not necessarily for these powers, we must always think, " How does someone else go to the highest position? ' Prime Minister with that authority later on? That's a question we can't answer, and that's one of the reasons why we should always be on the brakes to increase power. Governments, whether it's this government or anyone else. I can agree with that. A senator says that we should not ask whether this person is trustworthy rather than anyone else. But in the politics, we have names, and I'm called Hrafn Gunnarsson's Sanctuary in the media, and it's also the highest. A minister named by name, referred to him as a person, and to me, and to all of us. I find it in itself an extra point when it comes to this discussion because we may as well use the word "higher. " Prime Minister or wk. A senator, and it's the same place down there. We are always evaluating people from their personality and actions so that whenever we ask ourselves, " What confidence do we have in the government or in the High Generalis, we need to realize that we are talking about people, persons with authority? ' [[The president calls.]] It's dangerous.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u70	Mr. President. We continue a discussion on bill to legalize the legislation on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland. As we have seen, much is to think about. Usually, when this bill is discussed, it is called primarily what is under 1st par. The bill, which is about the ability of the minister to stipulate the establishment under him, unless the law is otherwise recommended. I'd like to say it first, so we'll talk to them on a particular article, that it's natural that the source of this case is being presented to the transport of Fish Room and the mess that all of it led to. The minister was reassigned with the plans that were part of some sort of advance policy, which is about a hurry-up, quick-by-the-moment decisions and text messages, not an overall vision. There was something that was going on in the country, as if there was one place in Iceland, and thus having been signed for the government's work in behalf of the scattered settlements of Iceland. It was a bad idea, and it was a bad move, and worse, it is providing a whole bill for a song to prepare a decision that in itself has been drawn back because of its wickedness. What I would like to stop at the beginning of this discussion is just how old - fashioned thoughts will crystal down there. First, with regard to regional and regional policy and second, in terms of government agencies. This thought, both the idea of a fishing lab at its time and this bill, is based on the old, archaic ide that institutions actually turn around four walls and some house and somewhere where people are located and doing their work, starting at something, logting in, and then going home at something else, and having finished their day of work. The thought and approach of government institutions is out - of - date. The approach increases with each passing year that the position of employees becomes secondary. We see large and powerful government agencies, such as to make up the Agency, which has for many years advertised positions or jobs without location and say: You can be a book, you can be a supervisor, you can be almost anything under the Agency can hear, in the Agency's field of activity, and you can be located or located in five or seven different places across the country and be the employee of the EEA. The same applies to institutions such as Iceland's National Weather Office and to more and more institutions, since this is the present, not to think of one institution that is moved from one place to another, but to develop the work environment of the states so that jobs can be done on an increasing scale regardless of their habitat. It's now. The idea of a Fish Room is old - fashioned and out - of - date when it appears, and the bill is also for the same reason. I've been a spokesman for the fact that we maintain a balance between our country and its capital area, as is possible with regard to public employment. I think the way to keep it going is some kind of central literature from public jobs because of the intention of moving Fish Room with other people and at the same time reducing the work of a teacher in high school outside the country is absurd. It is claimed that public work is being done throughout the country while they are being laid down with the other hand. As long as we don't have some kind of public central workbook, where we'll see the day the work is done, the number of jobs is reduced or increased, no matter what the Ministry or Minister of the project is, it's meaningless because it's never about institutions, it's about a lot of jobs. As I served as a minister of the environment, I became ever more excited about the idea that land had some kind of official unity that saved employees of various institutions. We could call it the environment of the quarter, or there could be seven or eight areas out of the country, there could be one in the West, and one in the northeast or whatever it might be thinking. In these areas, employees from various public institutions would be there, either because they wanted to live in the relevant region and work their work across the Internet or because of their presence in their tasks, such as for the management of EEA's work, for a research project by the Natural Institute, or a surveillance project by the National Weather Office of Iceland. This is now. This is, in fact, the thought we must get more and more involved in, that we are ever less and less attached to our work and time, but not dependent on it, as all these thoughts are expected, which are old - fashioned thoughts about what institutions are. Second, I'd like to say that I'm concerned that the forward party is leading a war between the settlements and the capital area, working specifically to maintain that war state. Why do I say that? Another subject that came into the Generalis Hall, with no interest in it but urgency. paritaprevir Höskuldur Þór Þórhallsson is the discussion of the city area of Reykjavík, which is not really the topic of Reykjavík, but is a symbolic discussion of this, i.e. That we, who are living in the capital area, which are members of the city in Reykjavík, members of the Parliament of the capital area, or Kragans, need to apologize. We need to apologize for one case after another that we represent the capital area, that we are speaking here for a strong, good, live, and more powerful capital. Can't we? You'd think so. And when you see this issue brought into the council and then this case, which is an article of the same challenge, this campaign of the Superintendent against the capital area, which surprises me, supported by an independent party that has sometimes been on the scene with the capital area. To me, the only way we have a strong country and a powerful community is by which we dare speak for a good capital because it goes together. Buildingism does not have just one aspect. Good urbanism is not only about settlements but also about proud capital. It's also a regional policy. It's not two different things. It's the same thing. The Action Act of Peace, which appears in one congregation after another, is something we need to pick up on the surface and talk about because each congregation case after another is the manifestation of the conflict in which the elements are blown and kept awake in behalf of this campaign. That's what I want to say. Third, in this discourse, I want to mention what is stated in Article 3. and for the Ministers' Committees. I must say, a respectable president, that I do not understand the phenomenon of Ministers when it becomes part of legislation. Of course, we assumed that the last changes in administration laws could be carried out by the Ministers' Committees, but this is in the hands of certain Ministers, on the terms of financial matters and on the economic issues. This is done entirely without any further light from its questions. We live under the administrative arrangement that the government of Iceland is not a multi-organized government, that each minister really has permanent authority in his case by the Council. When we are here under law, under the Constitution, to assemble and oblige a certain minister to have a specific meeting on certain matters, without saying what such decisions are or what the administrative positions of these committees have, we are not doing anything to benefit ourselves. In a good government, ministers have consultations, and they are to do so. They're not only supposed to do so on economic and government terms, they're also supposed to do it on resource issues, they're supposed to do it on tourism, they're supposed to do it through infrastructure, they're supposed to do it about resources, they're supposed to do it on welfare matters. It follows that the Board of Directors must be coordinated, and the Ministers agree on the issues associated with counsel. But not what? But you might be able to reason with Third Brigga. that this was the consult that would be in law but that other consultations would not be necessary, or what? What if the Ministers disagree with each other if they disagree on the results of their discussion? Or if the Ministers' Committee considers more ministers, should the third counsel be held? What, then, is the position of the decision? It's completely unclear. That approach, in my opinion, is a complete war against the Icelandic board of directors. That is not to be discussed. That's why I'm worried because in many respects I feel that the Ministerial Discussion is inexplicable. I don't feel like we've put any anchor on that thought, and I don't think it's improving. Of course, this isn't the main subject of the bill, but that's one of the factors under which I want to mention. Fourth, I'd like to mention just a conversation that's come up, both at the moment. paritaprevir Róbert Marshallur and what? paritaprevir It's a Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter. That is the situation offered according to 8. ..... that the Ministry of Presidency and the Prime Minister will advise the government on the interpretation of ethical principles in the event of a follow-up, and that we will have put down a moral and cohesion committee and all of them are actually taken out. While this is shown in the case and in the members of the committee's list that the project is important, it is still taken out. The assignment is important, but we are going to stop caring for it as we have been doing it and take care of it so that it is only on the table of prime minister. All right. But what does that mean? What does it mean if a prime minister is to decide moral issues that may come to the table of another minister in the government? What this means. This means that the prime minister himself is above doubt. I suppose the Prime Minister himself will never be involved in any opinion. I suppose the Ministry of Presidency itself will never have to consider the moral standards of its own administration. Or what? So where should the prime minister look when faced with problems? At the same time, there is the prime minister who stands in the office right now when the case is presented the same as in his day as a civilian senator during the last term spoke of right opinions and wrongs. I'd like to draw out here how dangerous this is, how unhealthy our environment is to create by viewing it at some point, not only during these times, but at some time, so that the prime minister should be irreformable about moral and moral standards, and he is in the position to tell others when they are on the right track and when wrong, because he has the position to be here. I think it's a very serious situation the bill brings up here, and it actually feels quite different. But it is in the complete sense that other prime products have come from the prime minister, such as to form what is in the areas of protection and are about to impose self - determination rights to a community, and lay the planning laws and withdraw some drawings of old buildings and old houses, which he will be able to decide which are worthy and anyways. This is not a healthy situation, a respectable president. This is not the situation we would like to enjoy in a modern society where transparency is to exist. Of course, we need to have reasonable confidence in the fact that there is a grammatical view to the basis of all decision making, not that there is a measure of concern about one matter after another that comes from the prime minister. Fifth, I would like to mention some of the concerns that I have also mentioned in reply, which attract the position of the labour market and the interaction of this bill with that position. We know that there is still a fight between the BHM and the state, and at the same time, we are being suggested to seriously impair the position of a group in the Protestant Alliance. According to the Alliance of colleges, the coalition is very concerned about the proposal for diluting documents to transfer employees from councils to institutions and to consider them to be uninhabited. The Alliance concludes at the end of his statement that BHM firmly opposes the bill and insists that the transfer of power involved in the bill is inconsistencies with the attitude of society in recent years that it is necessary to promote legal authority and the World Council. We're actually talking about that same time as this conversation is going on, the conversation between the colleges and the state, suggested by the majority to accept the changes in the state's academic status, the government officials, to change their work environment in this regard, contrary to their comments. It comes as no surprise to you, as it were, in terms of negotiations or agreements between this government and the most important part of power today, which does not seem to be particularly good to create a good atmosphere or some kind of environment for upbuilding discussions. But I'm not sure of that, Mr. Honorable President, I didn't see that the more prominent part of this was specifically discussed, that this was specifically discussed, i.e. how this particular matter fell to the delicate position of the current labour market, and I feel that it is not something that some members of the greater body carry on in some way. A respectable president. For now I have come to the end of my speech, because there is an increase in the power of ministers. They're bringing power in on the government board. Humans have answered that, of course, the minister must back up his decisions. All right, but I don't trust this government to do that in a grammatical way because of the way it has exercised authority. I believe, therefore, that it is very inconceivable to increase the power of this designated government and to increase the power of ministers and governments, which more often than not, unfortunately, here must be done by both the powerful, the very serious powers of power, and the free will. The house is usually most prominent in textual entries, but it's certainly, and unfortunately, there are others. So I strongly oppose this bill under discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u71	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For an outstandingly good and extensive talk, Svandís's Svavarsdóttir Varsity I thank her for the way she spoke of the conflict that is being created between the settlements and the capitals, as well as how she spoke about government and government administration from a modern point of view, not as some kind of military force used to sustain power or achieve it. I wanted to stay at that point regarding the transfer of the institutions. A lot has been discussed since Fish Room, but the senator noted that some sort of cluster could be created, where people would be working together from different government institutions because the government agencies are running around the service, the gathering of knowledge, and the monitoring of a variety of activities that can be beneficial in many areas. I'd like to ask the senator if she doesn't think it's right to look at things like the East Bridges on Eastern Europe as exemplary in that subject? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u72	A respectable president. Yes, I believe it is one of those models that can be seen; also the thought, which has been increasingly following, sometimes in English, by president's permission, called the ◯one-stop stick, i.e. that residents may approach public service in one place or at least expect to receive counsel in one place about where to go for service. To do this in national terms, you need to have the flexibility so that your local community, its organization, its citizens, your local employment, can develop it according to local local needs. We need to be stimulating. We need to be flexible in this direction. We're not supposed to build the operation in the wall and talk about transporting organizations. With that proverb, we are working against this trend that is inevitable, positive, and precious to the entire country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u73	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for the answers. I wanted to come up with things that could conflict with modern government and that could give rise to emotional decisions. It's 6. par., play 6th par. We're at 7. ... whereit is permitted to set up special operations and services, which are operating as part of the Ministry. They're making flexibility. I'm not going to cross-examinate that it may not be appropriate, but these steps shall be taken with caution. At the same time, allowing workers to be transferred from agencies to the Ministry or from councils to institutions, the interaction of two articles like these - what kind of environment could we pursue?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u74	A respectable president. It is important to have a degree of flexibility so that they are the tasks involved, that is, of great importance. But I've been worried about it, and I've been thinking about it, in the past few years, that I feel completely lacking an overall vision of where we're going. At times, projects are being transferred from recruitment to institutions, sometimes being reduced from institutions to the Ministry. There seems to be complete coincidences, there is no overall vision. At times, decision - making committees are being enlarged, united by many decision - making committees. In this case, we'd have to check the charges. If decisions are no longer taken by an institution but by some department of government, which would be an institution, would that be a complaint to the Minister? Or what if the decision is taken from an institution that is no longer an institution but some kind of government agency? This is one of the things you need to look to in these areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u75	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a lot of thought - provoking talks. You see, I think it's a very good point. A senator came on, moving institutions somewhere else like a box with people and incarceration, as it was done, for example. in the case of national surveys when they were transferred to Aranesp, it is over because jobs can, of course, be taken anywhere in the country. We are in a much better place today than we have ever had in the past. That's very obvious when you think about this move in the field, e.g. In the fishing lab, the source of this issue is the inheritance of a passing age, a world of mind that has actually disappeared. [[The president calls.]] I think that's our common understanding. A senator on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u76	A respectable president. I have to agree with this. I find it very strange, since I've been following politics since I was seven years old to see it now when these young men take over the administrations in Iceland, the grizzly men, that they should, away from political or political views toward society, go so cruelly into old methodology. In some respects, I feel that someone in the past is chronic, not just in material, nationalistic emphasis, and various aspects of corpses, but also in a way. I find this a real concern because all developments in the past few years and decades have been in the process of increasing democracy, pushing decision-making out to the public, out to the people, into the countryside, into the workplace, and so on, but this government works in the opposite direction as if it is fighting against what is just the down of time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u77	A respectable president. I wrote as a journalist in the last few years of the last century, a considerable deal of the move of the National Research Programme to the region. I remember very well the spirit that saw the transfer in the Agency at that time. Of course, the move was illegal, the government lost the case, she did not have the authority to do it the way it was done. It is inevitable, then, that this lesson has been learned from the fact that such projects require careful action and an idea of transport by the Fish Room is an example of how not to do things. I'd like to ask you why. A senator, because she has also served the Minister's Office and is well aware of what she refers to in her talk about the public workbook, which I find quite strange. Could it be that there is no such thing?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u78	President. These numbers may be accessed somewhere, but they are certainly not available and not available in one place, and all government institutions are not satisfied or their places are out of the country. It makes the situation really disintegrating, so it is easy for dominant members of the community or government classes to make such a decision to transfer some institution with some 20, 30 employees and to pretend that they are working in the interests of developing communities in the country, because there is no evidence in the books that public employees are being reduced to equal or even more in some other institution, in high school, college, or anywhere else. During the course of education, it is natural for a high school minister to talk about righting this account by moving Fishing Room to Akureyri. In fact, despite their thinking and despite their plans, public jobs are being reduced. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u79	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for her speech, this is the point. While men were talking about transporting Fish Room north of the country, the work from the others and those government companies and institutions was leaking into town. Some days later, Istavia, a government owner, reportedly laid down several jobs at the Akureyri Airport. It is only natural, then, to be called for harm from this, to watch the whole thing. I found it interesting what was done at the EEA, where the approach is that when a person is employed, it really doesn't matter where they are located, but it can get to work in any EEA work station all over the country. I'd like to ask you what. A senator as a former environmental minister how she feels it worked out. Was the staff taking advantage of this? [[The president calls.]] How did that come about?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u80	President. There's no doubt that it went very well. It was, I think, a real development. It's a rural procedure that isn't about being forced, not about moving agencies with you and a mouse around, it's not a thought about moving organizations like a box between places. This is about the fact that in the 21st century, the work is made that you can do it virtually independently. It's about facing that reality and taking advantage of it. This was done by the Agency in style, and many other institutions should be made. The EEA is particularly equipped for this for many reasons, but this could be done by many other institutions. This could also be done by a Fish Room. Then the staff would be moving out of their viewpoints rather than directly on the company's location and perhaps much more from where they offer a powerful hobby for children or where the band of horn is and where a good sports club is, etc. [[The president calls.]] Then there may be other viewpoints that have more to do with social issues than just the workplace, an old - fashioned approach. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u81	A respectable president. In the 10th. b It is about permission to transfer workers between institutions without the publication of a job. This makes me think about it, also based on experience from the Board of Directors, if we wouldn't have to have the only strong personnel agency to do the job. Then the Arms Passion and other professional views would be assured, within such the Council's employment agency, which would then be holding back the books as good as any. A senator might also be able to maintain authority in the staff matters and run a general policy for the State in those matters so that it would be consistent. Also, employees may request through this office to obtain a transfer or to be put on the list of possible candidates for other government jobs. [[The president calls.]] There could be some professional in this and also an opportunity for public employees. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u82	President. That's what I'm thinking. In fact, a senator mentioned in a paper with the bill, i.e. the positive possibility of offering more flexibility in the job and more opportunities for development, for people to change their field of work, etc. The unions have expressed concern that the employee is not really in a position to choose and refuse, that this conversation is not going on which it is suggested that the transfer should be carried out before the decision is made, but it is to put employees on a check-in. I think there is good reason to listen to the views expressed both in BHM and BSRB and other trade union societies and, in fact, also in the members of my section. I find the senator's speculation about some common ground that holds these matters and has a perspective on them worth examining.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u83	A respectable president. It is good and refreshing when members of Congress speak out clearly and say things as they are. That's what I thought. In her speech, a senator spoke of the war that the forwarding party seems to be trying to achieve here, between the country and its capital. I wholeheartedly agree that it is a bad matter, as it were. We, who represent the capital area and perhaps in particular - feel a measure of guilt and say, " Wait, what am I doing? Then we're embarrassed not to think about the district, so it's a difficult matter. This has been arranged on several avenues, but I ask the senator: Is it not time for the collective inspection, as they say? [[The president calls.]] I don't think it's an interesting word, but it's going to be a real attack on these matters and how we can get them settled. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u84	President. I think it's just very important. I agree, and actually very busy being in between like this, that it is very important that we not be ashamed to be members of Reykjavík. I feel that we should, sometimes, lie in the air. Whatever it is. A senator is beginning to agree here with a holistic opinion of the case, there's a number of reasons to form the economist division in Iceland, to form the terms of the election, how it is arranged, how the members of Congress are organized to the list and the importance of votes, and other matters that need to be discussed in this context to ensure that the democracy is not interrupted on the way, that voters feel that the force they give to their senator is returned all the way. Reykjavík's members also have a cylinder to carry forward, not just those members of the country's population, but also a way to increase confidence between these parties. That's why I'm worried about when political groups, such as the forward squad, address this issue directly. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u85	A respectable president. This imbalance may be one of the things that become part of this bill's cohesion. However, there are several other things that are passengers in the bill, which are especially to try to establish a legal basis for transporting Fish Room, even though it has been delayed; sometimes you are surprised that we are discussing this. Yet, all of this matters. One of the passengers on the bill is the Ministerial Committee. A senator specifically came in. I had understood it so that if the Ministers work, they can never resolve the ultimate solution, they must present it before a government conference. The Ministers'Committees cannot replace the government or approve the government. Or what? As noted, each minister is responsible for his own matters. [[The president calls.]] So, can four ministers decide that they will do something without signing it for a government meeting?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u86	President. This is an interesting discussion that we should give much more attention to, i.e. What scene is Iceland's government really? As I told you before, the government of Iceland is not a multi-organized government. Therefore, decisions are not really taken at a government meeting. Rather, it is the government for consultation with a minister on the matters of government to which they are responsible. Of course, the board of directors, the common decision of the Ministers at the table, can make a decision to bring a case to the council. However, the physical conclusion of any individual council or government project, far different from that given only by political consultation, is not legally bound. That is why it in itself carries a measure of danger, as it were, if we legally agree that it will take place somewhere, but these conversations will not take place at the government meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u87	V.E.G. President. Here we are discussing a bill to legalize the European Commission's legislation on the Management Board. These are laws for making new ones, set in 2011, and what you start to wonder is why the law is being changed. You may want to ask more often, " What is it that calls for this change? ' In this case, it's kind of obvious. They had trouble, and they wanted to overlook all the laws and rules of transporting Fish Room. They then realize that it will take relief to change the place or home-seat of a Fish House and make them a whole bill and include a few items, some of which may be improved, something that is controversial. There is good reason to discuss these changes and to review them well because what the board of directors need at any given time is firm, firm trust, and order. How important it is, then, that there is good work to be done! In the time of the last government, after the collapse, the Generals' study report, and the Senate report, a report was launched on the Council of the Management Board. Some of this is presented in a single edition, one in the 2011 Law, and some of it, of course, need to be overreached. But I warn you, for the only reason that is the Fish Room case, there's a bill that needs to be in pretty good terms. It's particularly reprehensible because that case is natural such a mess in the highest part of the world. The prime minister attends a meeting of candidates in the Northeast district and announces not to be brought to Fish Room. Then comes the highest. A professional minister who follows the case and then naturally reveals that there is no foundation behind it, and this is to be said: This is to be done immediately. This will help to explain how to do this, which should take more time, and this will be so that you may be able to work in both places. Since then, the Agency has been completely shaken and has actually been torn apart and destroyed by the idea of trying to build up the Agency in a new place. For us who have fought for geographic policy in the sense of trying to be equal in building a public ministry throughout the country as a whole, this is one of the disturbing issues that arise in the discussion of regional policy. You need to be careful. You should have learned from my experience, and I'm talking about Iceland's geology, which is often quoted in this bill. True, it all worked out very well, but it was a case that meant significant changes in the Agency and difficulties when the transfer or change took place, but the Agency has since become very strong and strong in its environment at Av Aranesp. Therefore, among other things, rules were set on how to work together, how to change institutions, e.g. The Ministry of Economics, and it would have been normal for men to take out that checklist and review it before making dramatic statements about change. The main points of the bill, and what I find most critical, are three. First, giving a clear license to a minister to determine the location of the institutions, I'll be on it better later. Second, it is authorized to transfer employees between recruitment and institutions. Third, it is the code of ethics, and each should be interpreted or instructed when it comes to them, where they are placed under the Ministry of Presidency and taken out of the hands of an independent committee to guide the issue. In my talk, I will review the articles that are especially related to these issues and first that will be 1st paragraph. The bill, which, of course, is the cause of the bill. It reads the words, allowing the president: Unless the law says otherwise, the establishment of an agency under which he or she hears will be established. It is possible that many laws require an institution's location and that it is not all being changed. However, there is a clear warrant for a minister's ability to determine a location without signing it under the General Assembly. That's what disagreements are about. There is a tendency to say: Is it not okay for ministers to have greater authority? But what is to be feared if it is handled successfully under the Council? Is it not safer to receive this coverage at the General Assembly, where you can get reviews, consult the relevant parties, and open the way for all to make comments and offer suggestions? Why are people taking this out of the council? I think it's a rash case, and it's completely unnecessary. There would have been no problem taking the Fish Room specifically and discussing the location of the Agency if a minister was going to transfer it. It would have required a much more difficult analysis of what was being done there, that would be the guidelines I was talking about earlier, that would be exactly what the evidence was for bringing the Fish Room, would be in analysis of what the function is, the benefits of bringing it to Akureyri, and making a cost assessment of it. Some had been done in the past that way, in fact, it would not have been a problem to follow through and to review that support. There is no way to make dramatic decisions and say: We're going to do it this way, regardless of everything else. I hear no other at the council than that they all believe that we should take care of it, as I said at the outset, that there is an equal figure between areas of the country in terms of service. The European Union of Iceland, for example, has made a special agreement in 14 or 15 teams for emergency operations in the regional community where this very point is presented, along with a number of others, how we can live in the country and the region, we are using the word for the Internet, so it is a competitive environment in the capital area. Of course, it should be the guide in everything. I agree with what happened earlier that this isn't necessarily about bringing institutions, like these are some clumps that are made up. It is a question of where the ministry is located and how we distribute it throughout the country and where it is given. In very many cases, the ministry does not necessarily depend on entering an office or entering an institution. It is a service that in itself is not expected to come in from the street and be granted. However, there are certain factors that can be greatly affected by the location of the institution. Let's take, for example, the University of Akureyri. Building up is a university that creates a special status and is located in Akureyri. Then let us see how this affects our home. It has had effects that are very interesting to the extent that you can study them. They teach such articles as occupational training, a form of teaching, and other articles, and the people attending the school in Akureyri, often come from the region and continue to live in the country. This means that because the school is located in the country, it has been easier for people to live in the country. I also remember very much when we were in a local labour oce listening to her professional report on the job prospects or the work market over the next three years. There was an increase in jobs last year in Iceland, some 2,700 new jobs, all in tourism. One of the main factors in strengthening the reception and service of tourists is increasing education. He specifically stated that such an education would have to be carried out in the country, where the structure would have to be to cover the country. To welcome more than a million visitors or tourists, you need to be ready for that service in the country, and you need to improve your skills, skills, and skill, whether in cooking, i.e. cooks, or services, all kinds of travel services. There are schools out in the country, such as Hóla school, who are involved in the tourism program. We can also go to agricultural schools. We do not necessarily take all this school to Reykjavík, but we can have it in good cooperation and make sure that it is located in the closer environment that can be discussed. There are many examples of successful changes and building projects that have had to solve certain problems. We can take the Reconstitution Institute, which has been very effective. It has been successful in holding a large group of employees, they have been trained, and it has taken up the collection of fines for the whole country. It is not that you can walk off the street, where most of the fines are fine, too, to work in peace. It's been very successful in getting these places and being a regular staff, and it's done really well. We have an example of an apartment loan fund, which is part of a sheep's jar, we have a birth vacation reserve on the Wombat River. We can take on a employment agency that went to Skagga Beach because of the high rates of unemployment there. Perhaps the best examples are nature firms, for that is, of course, so if you're going to be watching life and natural processes, etc. it is not normal for you to be in the area or somewhere in Reykjavík. It is normal to be in Stykisholmi, which is present and partly in Ólafsvík. So it is with a number of other useful things that are connected to jobs in the country by natural processes at the places in which they live. This matter of Congress is not about the will to distribute service across the country. He's there and with the people who stand here. I'm very interested in it, but I'm sorry that this route has gone and that this is followed by a decomposed discussion and method of building public service in the country. It is not likely to achieve the objective that the government set out and has failed to achieve, to increase peace and cooperation in this country. We've seen it in more cases. I don't know if this is the fear of democracy or the fear of Generalism, the fear of misinjuring something or how it is, but there are always more and more suggestions from the present level. Government to take over. Keep in mind that one of the very things that were discussed, including In the last term, one of the results was after the study report and after the Senate report. The conclusion was that there was too much Ministership here, that would be too much mobilization, too few making decisions. This government has more and less to do so. They want to have power, to manipulate things, they give no consideration to the fact that the government's situation with 50% of the people behind their last elections, so we just take it and don't do polls or anything else. The fish lab case, which is the reason for this bill, is not a good issue to use as logical support that a minister can choose a location. Another factor is the mobility of workers within the administration. I think everyone wants to have flexibility and a chance to move people, and we learned it when the collapse occurred. Then came a hundred to 200 journalists from the other parts of the world, and this piled into the Ministry of Presidency, which had fewer than 20 employees, if all were numbered, and was to care for the people at the same time as the Ministry of State in some way. The organization did not allow humans to move and perform such tasks at the outset. So they figured it out, but that's why they said that we needed to be more flexible. Based on this, proposals were made to check the workers' mobility within the recruitment process and also the institutions, as suggested here. In 2011 the result was to increase the mobility and flexibility between recruitment. Here the administrative institutions are added and, quickly, you may seem to be doing well, especially if the form was all right, but there are some very good indications that this is not necessarily reasonable, including. Because in many cases we are talking about surveillance agencies, we're talking about institutions that are responsible for or provide special counseling, and we don't tolerate losing that independence. We need strong, non-employable surveillance agencies, which have even established officials in their position that they must obey governments at all times, in which the Ministry, State, and the Council are to set the principles, not the manuals, of individual organizations. It is stated in the review that it is not allowed to impair the independence of institutions, that they must be trusted that agencies can take the initiative and bear responsibility, and that they should not assume that they are not allowed to do this and that they must not do so, etc., that there is more and less control of the problems. This is particularly important when we arrive at surveillance, we can take the SEC as an example, the SEC, etc. It has been observed in the provision we were discussing, in another context, that governments, ministers, or representatives of council cannot have authority, threats, or threats to individual organizations. It's particularly dangerous if you're also talking about personnel business, moving people in. This may create suspicion as long as what we want to see is transparent, we want to see that the most qualified individuals after the advertisement are employed and that equality is being guarded during recruitment. This has been under discussion for decades, and men have been developing the form, how we hire people, and to ensure that they can enjoy their own worth. I think this transition is in the wrong direction. I don't think it's necessary, even dangerous. This is an example of what is allowed to float along with the fishing business but is not improving. Then there is the third team, which has been very informative and has been a significant subject for today's ethics, and how they are handled. It's like, by President's permission, that: The Ministry of State gives governments advice on how to interpret the rules of morality in the following cases, provides instruction on these within the Council of Government, and monitors that they will accomplish their purpose. This is being put on the Ministry of Presidency and then under the direction of prime minister. If men had set up a special department and told us that we should have a department that was independent in the Ministry and that even was not under the minister's office, this would in itself be excusable, as was the legal committee in 2011. It was designed for counseling and guidance, both in order to provide professional advice on what might be and what might not be, and to determine if anything moral arose. This, in effect, means that the prime minister is the moralist of the country. If we look at this and a reservation in which Prime Minister is supposed to be the governor of the country, how far is the dictatorship if all of this is to be on the same hand in the small Ministry, the Ministry of Presidency? I think there's a lot of men going wrong over there. It then takes a much clearer law on what is meant by creating some setting in the Ministry for this role, for the discussion of corruption and of all the protocols is an enormously important matter. Deforestation has been defined very narrowly, almost as being only the direct and direct issues, or if people become criminals, but, of course, much more is involved when it comes to code - making practices. Then someone must be able to guide and criticize, so that they wrote the rules and general rules that should be valid - being reimbursed at that position. This proposal is merely designed to increase suspicion, and I don't feel that it will add to that in order to agree on it regularly with the Council's agent and the National Reunion. Are they going to be controlled too? The government is an independent agency under the General Assembly of the Icelands, and this is precisely where the government cannot use its agent and must submit to its opinions, as it has been in many cases, and influence the decision - making process, including some cases. ... aboutSeatroom. There are extraordinary things underneath this bill. Overall, you can say, "This bill is completely unnecessary, and it doesn't improve. " [[The president calls.]] It comes from a wicked intent to exercise power in connection with the Fish Room, which has actually been reassigned by a minister already.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u88	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator before his speech and agrees with many things if not most of what he said. Looks like 1st. The bill of controversy and the one we're in the lesser part are deeply concerned about. The idea is that a minister will gain this power and not really have to ask the council if he intends to change the location of the institutions, or lawhouse, or what we call it. It may be that they are moving agencies from the country and to Reykjavík, although we may not speak of several institutions in the country that some minister might decide to better live in Reykjavík, and so may it be. The question is, Is it not natural for senators who are elected and who actually come to their commission directly to the nation to have the last word in this matter, rather than to be represented by a minister who is not directly elected to the council? We have experienced that there may be three ministers in one terms period, and they can each have their own opinion on whether or not an institution should exist. The question is, what is it? A senator may not feel normal that the council makes these decisions, and he will discuss the matter, rather than being the sole minister of it. Aren't you taking too much authority to minister? Besides, these are not issues that often happen and should never have to make a quick decision. The fact that it will take some time to go through the council should not be a lecturer in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u89	V.E.G. President. I totally agree with what. paritaprevir Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir's spirit is that it's the Council that's supposed to be about this. Although we're speaking of a resolution at the General Assembly and we're having trouble with the council, we're having disagreements and we're discussing the President's Conference Board, etc. There are over 90% of the cases that enter the council in terms of reconciliation. The process is this, after 1st. en route to the committee, direct the case, discuss the case, and discuss it on the committee, are called to see guests, etc. The case is also sent out, and it is often forgotten that every person in this country can send in a review. You can access the Internet and fill out a form and send a review. Although this report comes from one person, whether in East, West, or Reykjavík, it is equivalent to a reference from a companion. This is a democratic way to discuss matters and then make decisions about them. I agree with what. A senator that is not such a heavy process because we are not doing this every day, that there is reason to hold back from doing so. We've got a lot of individual ideas, that's why, you know, people have been talking about that rights office shouldn't be in Akureyri, there's a lot of people that have that opinion. There were many who were surprised to see the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania located in Isafjordur. So, then, are we at risk that these things will be changed without anyone being discussed? Or must we, in turn, increasingly enact every law on individual organizations that has the same domestic stability that may be just the same? It must then be self - centered for every institution and is a change made by a change of law. I think it's supposed to be looking for an extended period of time, to the primary objective, and to discuss what might be considered, how we expand our ministry, and then the decision comes to a well - thought - out discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u90	A respectable president. There is another article that has also been discussed a great deal and has to focus on the mobility of workers in the administrative capacity, this is 10. y., b-joints. I can see evidence of that, it can increase practicality, improve the use of the staff and enhance flexibility. It may also be possible to move employees to make their interest, expertise, and experience more useful. This may even be an opportunity for employees to handle other tasks and gain more experience. The report states that the change made in 2011, to bring people in the board, was effective, but it does not really show whether it was much used, and there is no logical basis. This refers to being able to take people out of their councils and institutions. The main argument against that is, you would think, is that it is a matter of compromising the principle of advertising a job and that it may be that employees will be placed in an unfortunate position if they are not interested in moving around. I was wondering what. A senator could do something a little better, and if he agrees with me, there are some advantages in increasing this flexibility. Perhaps the concern, as noted in the case of the Committee, is that there seems to have been a lack of consult with the trade unions involved or with the staff. Of course, making such changes is important. But it can also be an opportunity for employees, if you think.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u91	V.E.G. President. I'll agree with that with what's happened. A senator that it's not black and white, it's not about one way or another. As I have noted, once the investigation was completed and the Senate report was assigned to a group that discussed the administrations, which was the basis for the administration of the administrative law. That group made a suggestion that there is a flexibility between the Council and its institutions, so it is said. The results of the Council's review at the time were to tie themselves to the Ministry, which is a fairly large group, and that men could move between, or apply, to, or, as mentioned earlier, that men could call after certain employees because certain projects were being done, asking for them to be transferred between counselers and men to take advantage of their own resources. It may include opportunities, opportunities to enjoy in certain areas, creating renewal and freshness for the employees and all of that. The problem is always the same: When faced with people, threats can never be used; there are very clear rules about how to do so. The danger of mixing institutions in is that it must be discussed which institutions they are. There are certain institutions that play a surveillance role or are independent institutions, we can take, for example. The U.S. Commission to supervise the administration of the Commission, we can take the SEC and some other reasons, because of the Alleger's agent, and this is not to be the case so that ministers or council officials can request that people be moved and that they almost threatened, or you can talk about it. It puts people in a very uncomfortable position and weakens the institutions that are supposed to be independent, are to take the initiative, and bear responsibility. Hv. A senator, if this is another person, it is all taken away, and of course it is not good. That's why I don't think this change is necessary. [[The president calls.]] I think it's better to keep developing what's already in the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u92	Mr. President. I thank the senator for his speech. Some institutions, Fish Rooms, and others have been referred to here. We're both on a universal and educational committee, and we've criticized a trial in the process of uniting a study evaluation agency and a research agency in the Institute of Education, how it's been conducted. I, with the permission of the President, would like to quote Aldulis's emissary, who has decided to adopt an independent opinion on that matter. He made comments on the decision to transfer a study centre from its present home to a Viking shelter in Kópavogi, in the building of a research agency, and quoted the Supreme Court, which is also used in the bill. I, by permission of the president, would like to read here: The Law code reflects a specific switch between legislators, i.e. The Generals and the Commission, i.e. The administration of the Ministers On this occasion, there is also reason to call attention to this, says an agent, that to the Council today a legal bill suggests that a minister is granted a legal authority to tolerate the establishment of an agency under him unless it is otherwise recommended in the law. These factors may be significant if the transfer of the Training Agency's staff is to be carried out before the Council has taken a stand on the matter. An agent here has questions for the Ministry that he has not yet answered, and I would like to ask him why. A senator whether he considers these words of an agent and investigation not to further support the fact that we can't help passing the Enforcement Institute out of a universal educational and educational committee, since here men are just getting a little out of the way before the legal rights are available.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u93	V.E.G. President. This came to light very quickly - when we were studying another excellent idea of bringing together a scholarship agency and a research center and trying to develop a setting around it, creating new laws and new educational institutions - that, first of all, a director had been hired before any law had been passed on the Agency. This was done in a curved way by the appointing of two agencies and by trying to compromise the situation so that the individual would have to prepare for it. Second, they did not take the time to define the activities of these institutions. We criticized that, me and him. A senator, including the General and Education Committee. This is a research agency that has primarily studied in elementary schools. That's really something, because basic schools are part of the rural community. But the legislation around high school study data - there is no rules, there is no setting of reference. It's just to come back later, and it's to be developed. This is another example of hurrying up, an idea that has been on the table, and now it's time to move on and unite the institutions, but we don't have a serious job and definition. True, it was shown that much work had been done. And it caught my attention when we started listening to the evidence -- Yes, they were fine, there was nothing wrong with them in the law. This was, in effect, a practitioner, called the establishment of the Agency and the establishment of new ones to circumvent employees'rights. This is an excellent example of a situation with many flaws, but it would not have to be in conflict and need not be in a conflict; a case that is fearful failure if you start to consider it. It may be possible, though, that a good director might take over and save this institution, but the methodology is not good.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u94	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. I agree with that, for we are in this case, as we have repeated on the committee, also dealing with students involved and their guardians. It is important that the Council, a representative of the country, be given the opportunity to take a stand on how they choose to change existing laws. The argument in the bill is that the system is being supported, i.e. to strengthen the Ministry of Human Services and professional knowledge. I've been thinking about it and asking why. A senator whether he believes that in some case we can be supporting the Ministry and weaken the institutions or vice versa. Regarding the specific organisation we've talked about, the Agency is being exported from the Ministry and the project itself. Therefore, you can ask yourself: " Is the Ministry ever strengthened by such efforts? At the end, I'd like to ask you why. A senator on this flexibility, in the process of importing institutions, because we need to establish some legal process: It may be one way a minister can bring his or her own arguments into the council, with a synonym or such, as the Council can oversee it cross-cutively and mention his work as it should be, not that he is merely discussing a minister's decision, which he takes on his own condition.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u95	V.E.G. President. For the last one, I think it's important to suggest ideas and plans in the form of the synonym or by presenting a white book or something like that. It would reveal what a person wants to do or examine. The matter would then be discussed at the council, comments would be made and reviews and then the authority would then be taken to action thereafter. This would lead to the development of the book from the council. Then the legal case would come into the council when it was all over. An example of this is a national financial programme, which seems to be going to screw up in this council, but the efforts in this direction are good for themselves. At the same time, different schedules are being discarded. They are destroying the framework plan, which is really an idea of the same thing, that the process has been determined, how to deal with it, and how to proceed with it so that it is a formal process. One was the system strategy that was partially saved by corners, but it was originally to be avoided by such a national electrical program. Hv. A senator encountered another problem, and I likewise ask, What is the Ministry, and what are the institutions under it? I have to admit, and I've said so in a moment. The General and Education Committee, that many of the cases we receive, regarding bringing projects from councils to institutions, such as the Institute of Education, give evidence that the Ministry is being starving. When the Ministry is starving, there will be some suggestions from sending out a project and then the Agency will start getting money to save the Ministry. That's not a good government. Also, it was not a good administration when they said about the Development Organization: we're moving her into the Ministry, we can use some of our staff. We're exaggerating ideas about professional work practices, a lot of experience and knowledge on developing cooperation and subtracting the Agency into the Ministry into a hotel in a foreign service that has nothing to do with the group. They need careful action. These are typical things that need to be discussed at the council, and it is good that we take the time to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u96	V.E.G. President. There have already been a number of excellent talks on this bill and its members, and it is not surprising that more things and smaller things have not been combined on the subject, the smaller part is against it. Of course, all of this has seemed to be the case because it was decided in a very amazing way to transfer the abandoned fish lab and, among other things, the bill has been looking for a legal authority to allow it to become. I'd like to cover eight. The bill, where the co-ordination committees are being suspended on moral standards for the administration. It's done without it, as the memory part points to -- I have so many documents here -- the smaller part has serious doubts that this law will go away and that there's a limited support for the bill and not clear what's going on with the change. So the lesser part encourages a much better inspection. And it's not for good reason, Mr. President, for it's only now that the law did not come out of nothing, it's not as if it came in there as some minor thing. It was first passed into the European Commission Act of 2010, after the collapse of banks, and at the same time as we were having a discussion on the General Report on the collapse of banks with a special volume on morality. This was a way to rebuild trust in Icelandic government, and there is now much at stake with the trust of the administration. I've been writing a bill since 2010 about changing the existing law. The importance of ethics, what it should be, how it is in other countries, what international guidelines and recommendations say. This is very detailed in the 2010 bill, where a co-ordination committee on moral standards for the administrations is first involved. It says about it in the bill, because old bill, by permission of the President: ▪ The committee will have a multiplicity and guidance to help reduce the risk of corruption and increase respect for basic values of the State's activities. To ensure harmonization between the various ethical rules, the co-ordination committee is expected to give a review of them. In particular, this is important regarding the general code of ethics that the Minister of finance will submit, as will later, and the code of the Council of the European Commission for which Prime Ministers will submit. At that time, the committee will agree with the Trustee of the Generals and the National Accounting Committee, but these offices have other threads to contribute to careful administration, which can be associated with highly moral and their application. It is suggested that the co-ordination committee give prime minister a yearly report on her work and that she will be introduced to the General. It would be the case with the comments on a better - to - do point. Like I said, at the highest. President, this is a law on the co-ordination board, as well as a protocol and on its many pages, if not a dozen pages, report. So there are a number of things that hang on. Then, in 2011, a new law on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland, when it has been carefully reviewed, is presented, and changes in the coordination committee - this is not now a faint name for the ideal committee - but a change in the coordination committee is made to make it clear that the Commission does not provide merely a review of ethics, but can also advise governments on the interpretation of such rules. So it is that although it has been evident before that it was supposed to be ongoing, it also gives her a legal role in the interpretation of ethical principles. That's what we're going to do now, if this becomes a law, to hand it to the Ministry of Presidency. When you're putting this in there, there's a process that--now I'm finished, Mr. President, falling here on page. The 1st bill contains a package leaflet of 1, i.e. An action plan on improving the morality of the government. It is a long - term process when it comes to improving morality, and it is a continuing process of maintaining moral standards, and it should be a constant discussion of what is moral and the changes to international standards on this subject. There is an ongoing trend in this area, with a lack of trust in government and government not only in Iceland, unfortunately, that's a global problem. As I say, this is a process and this is a persistent process, not something you do once for all. You need to earn trust, and you need to maintain that confidence with good morals and clear rules, transparency, and follow - ups. This operation program was to begin with a law set up, and then a co-ordination committee was to be appointed and agreed on regularly with a member of the General Assembly and a National Review. Then a minister of finance was to establish a general moral code for government administration taking into account the results of a national meeting held in November 2009. Then the prime minister was to verify the rules of ethics for the staff of Iceland's Board of Directors and Ministers and after the incident for the Ministers' assistants. Furthermore, education was to be organized by the Ministry of finance to executives and other employees. A member of the Generals was to make sure that his staff was an employee with knowledge of ethical matters. Then, some government agencies had to set up ethical guidelines for consultations with employees, the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and the events of a cohesion committee. Thereafter, state officials and the public were to present the possibility of shooting alleged violations of the moral code to the U.S. Marshal. The final schedule on the National Committee to report the first annual report to the prime minister and finally report to the General. Let's see, chief. President, this is the first report, the first report in a series of annual reports to be published on the basis of this. The current law, to 25. Article 2, of this co-ordination committee and reviews the main committee projects, which most of the Allegis wants according to the Committee's Committee for Directories and Control. Of course, the committee had a very important role in making the rules, providing guidance and such. They're here now, but they need to be maintained. As I mentioned, her role was changed so that she would also advise on their interpretations. And it is to be used for information collections and research in the topic fields of the Committee, which are to have discussions with the educational community, so that moral issues are being discussed at the level that could then be used to review the ethics of the administrations. It should contribute to the compatibility of the indication. It is to be involved in partnerships, organizations and offices here on the land and abroad that work against corruption in the public sector. And it is to provide the prime minister with a yearly report that, if indicated, recommendations to the government for further action to strengthen confidence in government administration and to reduce the risk of corruption and problem in the administrative capacity. The report shall be submitted to the General Assembly. It should then, of course, consult with the State Reconnaissance and U.S. Marshal. The Compatibility Committee is a committee that should have the role of maintaining the ethical code, providing counselling on interpretation, and providing tips if something needs to be corrected. The bill on the subject says that it is now all right to put this committee off, because it has been established by ethics, and it is completely overlooked that it was only the role of the committee at the beginning. However, it is also stated that the vast majority of the Directorates of the Board of Directors consider ethics to be an important part of their work but that lack instruction and follow-up. And then the more part counts -- yeah, I'm begging for favors. I'm here, you see, I'm making a mess here. I was going to talk about the 8th report. in the bill, but more than half of it had been considered. The bill points out that the committee received a discourse. So there may be reason to consider whether it is for normal reasons, that there is good morals in the administration, or whether any neglect is needed to correct, since it may be important for people to be able to go to neutral parties with their tips, especially if it is the next officer. For example, if the next officer is the secretary of charge or if the person feels that a minister in some way has violated a code of ethics, does not speak of anyone who believes, for example, that a prime minister in some case has violated a code of ethics, should be taken to the Ministry of Presidency? This needs to be answered, but it has not been answered. In view of the case with Fish Room, it seems that this was much less discussed in the committee than was in the development of the institutions. As I came to the beginning of my case, the role of co-ordination committees is to offer proposals to the government for further action to further confidence in government administration, to reduce the risk of corruption and problem in the administration. But what about corruption? Recently we have heard about it -- at visir.is I found it, I remembered it, and it has undoubtedly been spoken of in many places - that OECD's committee called the Icelandic government for its slow access to a pay-off contract and that we are part of a covenant within OECD to fight corruption and that we have taken only two full motions and introduced to Icelandic law, but 15 motions have not been legal. Now, I'm not necessarily mixing it with the Council's Code of Morality, but it shows that we may need all the help we can get moral guidance and to stick to the material. The man, the chief. The secretary who leads the Ministry, who is now supposed to be a form of co-ordination committee, was not able to reach him or would not express himself when he was inside, depending on why Iceland had been so badly able to establish legislation against corruption. He is also not present when we discuss this matter. That's not what I'm saying, chief. President, rather, it simply remains on the highest level of communication. Prime Minister at the Council, he treats us with contempt, and he is not interested in talking to us. While he may be offering good reasoning at times, feeling that there's little more to reason with, we have not been allowed to enjoy the highest interest here in the Generalis Hall. Prime Minister. Then came the prime minister, and went; and the law shall not build upon every one the minister. But I am concerned that a minister who is so not interested in talking with other legislators of the legislature parties is being accepted into his Ministry for this cohesion committee's role. And although Iceland should have the best prime minister in the world, we should not do this, for the law is law no matter who should enforce it or who should monitor them or contribute to their development. In view of the great amount of work involved in legalizing this committee and its role, I am completely opposed to her being dismissed by the law with an extremely limited report and a lack of rational support. But I would've wanted to hear from the highest. The minister, or prominent, of the matter. paritaprevir The armourer of the son of Níelsson, why they be joined, that the committee may be put away. There's a lot of other things I'm going to make a point with on the bill, and I'll discuss them in my second talks on the subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u97	Mr. President. Hv. A senator made mainly a subject of ethical or moral standards and the counseling role that the Ministry of Presidency intends to take on the material and replace a moral cohesion committee that is supposed to be functioning according to Article 25. Current legislation on the Council of Control. I've also thought about it a little bit, even though I didn't have time to discuss it thoroughly in my speech yesterday, it was more important to consider other factors. First of all, it would be interesting to hear the question. Senator, I hear you. A senator is trying to dig into this, if there were any explanations in any place that gave sound reasons for this other than that they didn't try so hard on the committee that I heard appeared before. This, of course, is the more odd, so I don't say less suspicious, considering that there has been a huge public problem with just the Ministry of Morality. As far as I can remember, the Deputy Director of the Generals had to write a prime minister in order to try to reduce the Ministry of Presidency to see if the government of Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, the highest. Prime Minister, would have made a moral code over his head, or would he have reconfirmed the code of ethics of the previous government? The answers were embarrassing. First it was said that it was, taking into account the standards of the former government, but it was not clear whether they were valid or had been reconfirmed. Therefore, it is not very credible to say that the Ministry as itself, and the Minister who himself, has not done particularly well, not directly challenged, it would be so important to accept this role, apart from having the basic advantages, completely independent of men there at any given time, that this would be useful for the Ministry of Presidency to do so. The Ministry of Presidency is supposed to be the Office of Directorates, and it is not appropriate to blend in with it too many other responsibilities. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u98	V.E.G. President. I agree with what. Senator, I don't think it's good that it is--now, of course, the general agent has a role there, as the review points out. However, the role the Ministry of Directors is to replace the co-ordination committee is to provide counseling to the government on the interpretation of ethical principles, taking in and keeping them in place within the board, and observing that they accomplish their purpose. The Ministry of Presidency has kept an eye on education, in fact, complains that it is least enough. Now I want to reiterate that I trust the Ministry of Presidency to organize and keep them educated, and I'm sure that they've been tried to do it the best they can, but they can always do better. Then there's a new staff, and it needs to be taken care of. But the interpretation, it's a great responsibility to increase confidence in the administrative arrangement that the interpretation is by such a committee. What if some of the staff at the Ministry of Presidency, the head of the Ministry of Presidency, is considered to be disproportionate in terms of the code of ethics? Will they then judge on their own? It's the same if people want to give a tip. Then, for various reasons - which should not be listed - may be the cause of the power and fear of losing a job or such - it is important to have a neutral party. In addition, the report that the Committee is to provide Prime Ministers and articles on the field of the council is very important in promoting and building trust.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u99	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answers. There were some of these things that I wondered about, whether there could actually be situations that would be uncomfortable for the Ministry of Presidency to have some sort of interpretation role, not a ruling or a judicial role, but still a consulting-and interpretation role, when there are some extramarital circumstances, Greek circumstances, and people have to look for advice on what has happened, whether there's a serious violation of ethics or otherwise. The Ministry of Presidency is, as I say, or should be -- it has merely been involved in the history of this government, because of the highest. The prime minister has developed some of his special interests and has drawn them into the Ministry, culture, and so forth - but the policy was clear in the years leading to making the Ministry of Prime Directors a great deal of clean engineering, it would not be the Department of Education for Legal Affairs. And why? Yes, because it has great benefits when the Ministry of Presidency has to sort out issues, decisions about conflicts that may arise between recruitment and other factors, the Ministry of Presidency is most likely to remain neutral in all respects. There is, of course, a code of ethics on the whole board, and this role can be thought to be a conflict, and it is not necessarily appropriate for the Ministry of Presidents to alone or without advice or assistance from outside should be carried out, even if we rely on it. Interestingly, at the time of the Presidency Committee and the Council of Congress, two of the three specialists in the area of ethics and law suggest that the Code of the Generals are in the shelter of an independent, professionally appointed committee, where two of the three are represented by a broad political agreement, the Ministry of Presidency will, in effect, recognises the issue of approach, take it from the committee and into the Ministry. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u100	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for which I find it so strange that now, a few years after the complete shipwreck of the Icelandic citadel and a great distrust of the government, especially the politicians, and in spite of very much work and deliberate legislation, I am convinced that it can be corrected, should be taken out of force, that is dangerous, and that it should be done without evidence. It is also quite remarkable that the government, where one minister has had to go, another has experienced a storm due to its connection with a particular company, should suggest this without blushing. And maybe it's the highest. Prime Minister is very happy not to give us a report of the co-ordination committee at this council, it may be just a relief, and maybe just best to get rid of it, I don't know. The other thing is, I don't know any better than she's not working, this committee, because her time has passed. I think that anyone who is only thinking about this matter and looking at the report with the 2010 prime project and 2011 may think twice before they agree to cancel this committee unless we want to go back to the goals of higher morality in the official government. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u101	Mr. President. This bill suggests changes to the Council of Control, aimed at increasing the flexibility of the European Commission in organising jobs. It is reported that the establishment of the Office of Directorates and Offices within the Ministry must be established and that it is looked forward to uniting the business of the Ministry and the individual administrations that receive the office of the Ministry. In this context, I would like to hear a attitude. Senator. We know that transparency is the basis for the public's ability to provide government support. The principle is that public employment is to be advertised and based on these opinions on transparency. There you will be on the same scale as that of the most qualified candidate who is always hired to operate. This is where the authority is authorized to transfer employees between recruitment practices. It is stated that in order to improve the rights and duties of the personnel of the State, there will be better regulations allowing personnel to transfer between the government without the publication of the job for application. I'd like to hear some attitude. That's what I'm talking about. This has been criticized by unions, and although this should be done with the will of directors and employees, of course, there is always a particular pressure. Is that something to look at?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u102	V.E.G. President. I personally find it difficult to pronounce a severe judgment of 6. G., if it's good or not, I think there's a lot of sides on it. However, in the same bill, when it is suggested that, first of all, a minister of directors decides not only about the location of the institutions but also, in the second, that special units and the Ministry and the Offices that are a member of the Ministry and Thirdly, must transfer people, not only within the Board of Directors, but from the Ministry and Office, you feel that the objective of the bill is to reduce formality in the administration and increase the authority of the administration there. A man's word comes with responsibility. I think the feeling that comes up when you read the articles of this bill is a good idea. Of course, it is sometimes tiresome to appear before the council, especially if people don't like to talk to it, but sometimes a minister needs to go into the council with decisions that he has to reason on and support, even negotiate, and here I feel like he's here. I'm afraid it's not to protect better administration but to further the authority of individual ministers. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u103	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. What may have been disputed in the bill, along with other matters, as moral principles, is a minister's authority to determine the institutions under which he will hear without taking it to the Council. We know the fishing industry, which has burned men and is now on a certain channel, and a minister has taken up the country. I'd like to know what it is. A senator believes that there needs to be some official policy in these matters, where it is possible to export projects to land or to potential institutions. This has been part of the case by a minister in the past whose right it was in his power, which fell out in 2011, and since then it has been Generalis to decide such a thing. Got it. A senator does not lack a professional assessment of which areas has the strength to receive certain kinds of strains? Of course, there are different suitable areas, which are suitable for e.g. The employment, culture, and infrastructure in the relevant community. This is not to be done out - of - date, after any quirks of ministers, and it must primarily be discussed democraticly within the Generals. Should we not try to put forth policy and public policy in that matter, a challenge to action, and prevent the conflict between the population and the country that always starts when discussing these issues? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u104	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for the inquiry. I think there's a lot of work to be done when we try to work, so we remind ourselves, and we do it in the spirit that we're all in the same boat. A country without capitals and capitals would be of little value without the borders of the country. What is needed for people to want to live somewhere? They need opportunities, good schools, good health care, and varied employment. Of course, it is important that there are good employment opportunities for everyone, people with university education, people with all kinds of expertise and experience from their local community, and that need to be varied. It may then be important to promote unity, not to be whole, but to be united from institutions, even entire institutions. In this regard, I would like to say that the Agency, which is involved or the unit involved, must be competitive about staff, should be aware that it is located in such a way that it attacks the right kind of staff and such. We are to be very ambitious when it comes to geographic policy. I think we're supposed to expand the role of the parish plans. It also means that when an area unites on what emphasis it will be made, it will be easier to determine the type of work needed, what is necessary to achieve these goals. In this way a decision can be made on the location of public employment.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u105	V.E.G. President. I would like to say at the beginning of my second talk on this subject that I think the discussion has been very good. I feel like she's been deepening, as it were. Senators shed light on things that we were not all aware of before, and the whole matter is becoming clear in our minds. As a result, I am more sure about my fault than ever that this matter is to wait, we need to discuss it much better. There are so many opinions in this room that they don't have. When we started talking about this bill on the Management Board of Iceland, we first stopped at 1 st. The law simply was known because the bill was introduced. It was the transfer to the Fish Room that the minister had stood for, so it was both unfair and probably lawless. And with this bill, people are getting better under the Minister's decisions. But in 1st. says exactly, by permission of the president: Unless the law says otherwise, the establishment of an agency under which he or she hears will be established. In other words, the minister is being authorized to act. This discussion has been made clear that in itself no one is discussing this occasion as such, i.e. A fishing room, other than the work practices and the way you treat your staff. No one would argue that government agencies must never be brought. There are differing opinions as to how such things should be done, but all agree that for such a transfer there should be perplexing reasons. You should have gone through the financial issues and professional aspects of the matter, and we all agree on that. If it is now that the council agrees fully that it is lawful and should be allowed to transfer organizations to certain conditions, why are we not allowed to do so in the council? That's what this controversy is about. Should the council come to such decisions, or should it be in the power of one minister? Most of the people who have expressed themselves on the subject would agree that the council should be there. Since then, there have been some forms of friendship in this matter of concern. Hv. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir pointed out that during the season and most likely in the future, positions of activity will be less relevant as technology moves forwards. She mentioned an example of this, I think she specifically mentioned the Agency, and that's exactly right. Of course, the location of activity for individuals is important if they are to be taken along with one another's home, another story. But that is what was involved in this particular case, and we will discuss in what way we should be involved in making such a decision. There have been examples of changes that have been made in recent years that have only been successful. This was an example of the government taxpayer's office, an example of the police services and the administrative reforms that decided in the fall of 2010 that no transfer or change would take place for the next five years, the next 30 years. That would happen in the first place on January 1, 2015, and that happened without question. But, of course, everything had been on the flame of controversy until it was relaxed. I think that in the stream of time, the government and the politicians made some mistakes, and it's a great opportunity to listen to the discussion today, where the person who said one yesterday said another and who has become a turning point of view in this hall depending on whether a person has been in control or in a position of government. I don't think we have anything to do with it. We should try to learn from mistakes that we have made, with detractation, management, or politics, and try to learn the right lesson from our mistakes. Then I'm primarily inclined to believe that having the council come on this and to ensure that objective evidence is presented for relocation in institutions. That's the opening point for this discussion. Since then, humans have looked at 2. the bill that focuses primarily on wording and that has no or few comment on it. Then comes Article 3. I'm beginning to think that maybe it's the most important article on the bill, I think it's the most important article on the bill. I would like to, with the permission of the president, to read this article and then the explanation presented in the bill on it. The article, with the permission of the president, is as follows: ◯ At 9. There's a new sentence that goes on and on, and we're talking 9. The law that starts with these words, by permission of the President: With the government's approval, the Minister of High Priests can order ministers to discuss individual cases or lawsuits. In other words, we'll discuss what the prime minister can decide on some committees, individual Ministers. Then it says, with the permission of a president: ▪ At any given time, ministers who serve as prime minister, cr. 1st mg, shall always be a member of the Minister's Committee on State Money and Ministers on Economic Affairs. The prime minister and the Minister who takes the government's money has a permanent place in the Minister's Committee for State Affairs. Prime Minister and secretary to the matters of economic management and financial status is a permanent member of the Minister's Committee on Economic Affairs. Other regulations apply to the Ministers' Committees on State and Economics as well as to the rest of the Ministers' Committees. 1 mg This is what the law itself says, and I refer to the review in the bill on this article, with the permission of a president: For the first time, the order of the Ministers of the Council of Iceland was required by law to the Ministers of Ministers, such as the Ministers of Ministers. has long been active in the field of recruitment in Denmark and is an important area of consultation for Ministers and Ministry. However, the Ministers' committees in different shapes have a longer history, and particularly the Ministers' Committee on State Money, preparation of budgets and budgets, construction of budgets, etc. The law suggests that the Ministers' Committee on State Money and the Ministers' Committee on Economics, however, will be established by law. - And remember, we're here talking about Prime Minister decisions we're also putting down there with the law on these specific committees. Come on, I think, with President's permission: The proposal is presented in view of the experiences experienced by the committees and their importance in the coordination of Iceland's Management Board in the area of government and economics. The proposal is also presented in relation to the implementation of a bill on public financial matters, to listen to this - ◯en according to the proposals set out there, the responsibility and authority warrants for the implementation of budgets will increase considerably, once again requiring increased coordination and consultation within the Council of the Council. Legislation of state-of-the- fiscal terms is also in line with the main results of the Generalist Report, which highlights the importance of cooperation and information flow across the Ministry, especially in the economic sector, and that such agreements are prepared for formal reporting on data and meeting initiatives. The directive suggests that formal cooperation and coordination between hallmarks will be further established as well as information between recruitment practices. And he ends there at the bill on Article 3. Here's your experience. I'm not sure they're being handled properly. When it comes to the importance of consultation between those in the administration board, it is being consulted because the nature of the matter does not sit in all the governments, any Ministers, or all the lawsuits in these committees that are supposed to handle the financial and economic issues. And because I don't have an unlimited period of time, I'm referring to very good reasoning as a matter of course. paritaprevir " The very nature of the non-diversary Icelandic government, " says Svandís Svavarsdóttir, "is missing from the bottom. I'm leaning on that, at least. President, this may be the most unthinkable aspect of this bill, but it's also one of the most important things. As if we could change 1st paragraph. When men are made aware of this, or to get men to think it over a little bit more, so I am now more polite. But here we are making fundamental changes towards central control, and I very strongly warn you. This could have many more words on my mind. Then, in paragraph 6, it says that it is permitted to set up specific work units and departments and make organizational adjustments, all of which are truly good. Again, though, it is very vague. Should I have been authorized to set up a government lottery firm? I'm asking. According to this, the text might be interpreted that way. I thought it was a big mistake for the Council to keep my plans from being resolved. Still, I would not have felt that it was right. I think it's right for the General to take such measures. Finally, the highest. President. I've been through a detailed discussion on the ethic committee that's being decommissioned, but I'd like to get back to it at the end of another context, which I've actually done here in return. There is talk of increasing flexibility, the importance of transporting tasks and staff between recruitment and institutions, and it is stated by consultation and the will of the management and staff themselves. Isn't that good? Yes, it's very good. At the same time, people have been warning that the freedom to do so can turn up in the opposite direction and that if they intend to keep their work, they will be forced to submit to custody. Likewise, I have always had doubts when talking about professionalism at counseling. All of us know that there may be centenarians who meet every scale but who are useless for a particular job. And that's where the thoughtful comes in, we all know that a certain person who doesn't have a certain education, and it was for a long time that it was advertised that the head of state institutions needed to have a university education, they could apply for the job if they had a test in Danish or German or Greek, but not if they had any other background. It is a natural, ancient thought that is repetitious. But she's still there. Long-term education and titles are considered for jobs, and this is called professionalism, isn't it? People are often overlooked, and everyone knows that they are better off doing their jobs. And what do they call this a coward? Mania, that's a good idea. Then we are faced with the fact that we have the rights and professional guidelines we want to honor and, on the other hand, the cowardly one to take into consideration. So, what do we need? Code. We need to discuss how we should approach ourselves. And that is why it is important to have that job persistent and living, the difference between putting it as almost dead letters into the Ministry of Presidency and the other on the other hand, calling for a representative of unions, executives and non-continents, such as from the University of Iceland, who specialize in obtaining information about such things, how to feed common sense within the administration of government. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There's a fundamental difference between the two. And that is why and in this light, it is a mistake to put this committee off.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u106	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a good speech. I want to start with 10. par., b-a- team, which speaks of the transfer of employees. In a paper with the bill, it says under the permission of a president: ▪ There has been some reports that workers have moved between recruitment practices both permanently and temporarily in recent years on the basis of the legal authority that became valid in 2011 and that the experience of this project has been good and unscrupulous. The section I agree with is referred to in the committee's article on criticism, which has occurred in this article by the representative of the employee, and there it puts it word for word, according to the president's permission: She's hiding even. in which experience in transporting workers according to local laws is not good and that employees are rarely in a real position to refuse such transport. There's discrepancies. The argument here is that this was a good one. As I was trying to say in my speech, I should have realized how to ask for support. Are these many of those who have been transferred, able to talk to that person? You don't quite know if this criticism comes from the employees at the same time, that experience is not good. That's very interesting. I can agree with that. A senator talked about, and we've found out in this discussion that there was a huge focus on Article 1. and afterward it may have been too much focus because there are so many other things there too. I agree that this matter will return to a committee, and we considered some articles.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u107	V.E.G. President. Now it is clear that the matter comes back to the committee, there has been a request for such a situation, and there is an adjustment that makes it necessary for us to take it back. I think that's where we have to trust the experience of the locals. I don't have this poise in my head about how much tricks are involved, but they know anything about it. Again, though, I would like to call attention to a particular development that has occurred within the administration of the official government. The value of unions is being reduced. They have been pushed away to solve situations that arise, the staff case called. Instead, so - called HR managers have been hired. I always get scared when I hear that word and ask who to fire, for humanism has been a principle of how to run people. Once we've reassigned this sort of system change, reduce the importance and impact of the trade unions, which ensures that you sit even for discussion, this will be dangerous. If we had a strong class society that worked on a legitimate basis to resolve matters in a fair way, I'd be less afraid of this, because on the ground, I don't think it's a bad rule that if you could move people to the things that are changing and the emphasis and wishes come out, it would be okay. If I believed men were doing this upright and not forced, I wouldn't mind. But that's in the light of the tip of the unions I'd like to pay a price on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u108	A respectable president. I was going to discuss the mobility of workers within the administration. I can see the evidence by that it might be good, leading to better use of workers and also a chance for workers to gain more experience and to use their knowledge in more fields and so on. I can hear it or feel it. A senator may feel that this might be possible, but he needs to be more careful and to keep the workers on it better. In fact, he is not opposed to this thought, for perhaps it is a continuation of the thought that was held in 2011 when the rules of transfering people between counselors were set aside. They're taking the steps further and they can transfer people from the Ministry to institutions and vice versa. Hv. So a senator sees the potential for this to be done if a good job was done and a representative of the union and the staff would be involved. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u109	V.E.G. President. My answer is yes. If we set off a review of personnel policy that involves us strengthening the position of the trade unions within the county, which ensured that such a conversation would not be on the personal basis but that the union unions would be involved in such a discussion and that the individual would be removed a little from a so - called officer or manager, and this would be just as high as the individuals interviewed there would be, I would not object to it. It is good that the function can be flexible and can be reassigned, if done on an equal basis, and in a natural way, there is nothing wrong. But unions warn of it and say they don't have land to stand on the rights of the people. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u110	President. I agree with the senator that much interesting information was being done during this discussion. It'll always be clearer to what I've called stowaways. It is very often with bills submitted to the council that at first glance, they are about one factor, but when people discuss the matter better, they can tell that there are all kinds of cohesion fish. I say with this bill, because there was not enough discussion in the committee, I immediately found it obvious that there were things to discuss better. I say, as it is, it was the particularly part of a administrative agency or something that can be installed, but I hadn't noticed the Ministers committees that have been called attention today and then. paritaprevir Also mentioned in his introduction was the attitude of Ögmundur's Jónasson. This is interesting and needs to be given more thought. Now I'm asking why. A chairman of the Committee: It has been found that the transport of the Fish Room has been delayed. There have been suggestions on how the council might possibly be involved in transport, e.g. by making a hearing if a minister wanted to move an institution, as is suggested here. Does the senator think that we can try to look at this bill during the summer and make changes in the fall, which in many respects fulfill the same but think better? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u111	V.E.G. President. In fact, I would like to agree with this hidden criticism of our own product, which is a minority opinion, that we could have considered it better with the Minister's Committee, we could have done better with it. But these are things that are becoming clearer during the discussion. I just agree with what. A senator would want us to try to take up a discussion on the committee whether it would be wise and beneficial to put the matter off, put it on ice, and work better in the fall, think better of its factors. I don't think on this matter there is any need for political or political differences. We're not arguing on such grounds. There may be individual opinions on the matter, but this should not be necessary to be divided by political parties, it should not be necessary to do so. I agree with what. Senator, I'd like to lie down with the senator to try to discuss the matter on the basis of a administrative and surveillance committee when the case comes up after 2nd. ... aboutit.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u112	A respectable president. I think it's worth it for the committee to discuss whether this is possible, especially in the light of two factors. On the one hand, that's what it is. According to one senator, opinions are not necessarily divided into groups of political lines, but what has been the main subject and appears to be the main reason for the publication of the bill, the transfer of Fishing Room. It's been decided to postpone him anyway, so I think it would be very good. Then I'd like to agree with the discussion here that has been about canceling the co-ordination committee. [[The president calls.]] I want to be critical of that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u113	V.E.G. President. I reiterate my opinion that I think it is very important that we take the matter into consideration again of the Council's Commission and Observation Committee on the basis of that decision. A senator has tore up, and so have I. I simply hope that men have not buried themselves so deep in holes that they begin to see it as some of the fundamental factors to pass through the council now or to stop. We're all supposed to be together to do this as well as possible. We're talking about the administrations and we're talking about the Council of the Management Board of Iceland, and of course we want to live well on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u114	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. The Council of Government, No. 115/2011, the work of cohesion committees on moral standards in the administrative department is implemented. By permission of the president's first commission, the Commission would contribute to the high regard for moral standards in public employment and to provide counsel on measures to prevent conflicting interests and corruption. For example, a report published in May 2012 shows that ethical guidelines should have the objective of developing good habits gradually, with the need for them to give thought and discussion rather than to include precise instructions for proper conduct, which can help to improve culture in the administration. Rules are easy to make, but making rules is harder to establish, so it is so important that all of them are involved in following protocols and having their lead in mind. It is said that the code of ethics can be used and kept behind the ear when creating legal products, etc. Now I feel as if I'm culminating the role of a moral order in the administration. I want to ask you why. A senator whether he agrees with this and whether it has been stated on the Committee why it is considered necessary to pay the importance of ethical rules in the administration.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u115	V.E.G. President. I think, in part, it's because of a different understanding of this job. On the one hand, people view the rules as such, the code of morality, and the other. A senator rightly referred to a culture in these matters. What the current law letter is about, is exactly because it refers to living jobs, calling a group, as it says, by permission of the president, to contribute to the incompatibility of failures in the same way as indications, et cetera. Later, it says that they are involved in partnerships, organizations and offices here and abroad that work against corruption in the public sector, and for the results of educational research, etc. The emphasis is on living things that many people face. However, the understanding of the law laid before the council today is the letter of death, the moral code that is now to come from the Ministry of Presidency. This differs in understanding of the current law. They require living things, not the rules.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u116	Mr. President. I thank the senator for his answer, and I agree that this is about culture and conflict. Hv. A senator spoke of his not being pleased with the granting of such totalitarian authority, and it would offer quirk control and emotional decisions in case the transfer of the institutions of the legislature should be done by the legislature; this is also mentioned in the committee of the minority of the section. Then mentioned why. A senator's example of the transfer of the institutions that would have been successful. I want to ask you why. A senator whether he feels an option, if he does not want this to be a well - intentioned minister, to legally bind some such career, or to decide for each institution and situation at any time when it is being moved by institutions.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u117	V.E.G. President. I believe that the arrangement laid down in the current law is good. There are two factors that cause me to reach this conclusion: It aims to reduce people from many parts of the system, from Icelandic administration, and combine a discussion of general standards, how we can develop them. I think it's more rewarding than tying it to individual organizations. This is not to say that the units within these institutions, whether in the trade unions where I want to promote contract tables within the institutions, and the rulers gather there. That's an excellent addition to this discussion. But it is interesting to read this text, with the permission of a president: The Ministry of State gives governments advice on the interpretation of ethical rules in case of follow-up. - Then we'll have two more lines. [[The president calls.]] I mean, it's all different than the rules they're taking out, that's going to work out.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u118	Mr. President. We're here to talk about the Council of Control. In view of the fact that this bill is going out, among other things, on land, and really just anywhere, and that it should be in the power of a minister, I would like to continue with what I started at the council today, i.e. To discuss the case we have in the General and Education Committee. There I only had two minutes, and then there's not much to go over. Not only does it turn to the Fish Room, although we know that it may have overstepped it, but it also points to the administrative modules that are being formed. I would like to quote only the letter of the U.S. Marshal, who published on his website. It says that an employee of a research agency complained about his choice of changes in his organization and the activities of the study centre and the study centre. As a result of this discussion with this employee, an agent felt that there was a reason to ask academic questions about this specific institution and therefore decided to initiate an independent investigation. I thought it was interesting what he says at the end of that letter, so I'll just start at the end, with President's permission: ▪ The laws of mines and study institutions, and their actions may have significant significance for students involved and their guardians, as well as for local authorities, in school. Thus, it is important that the Council receives adequate opportunities to take a stand on how it chooses to change the current law before going too far in preparation and doing the will of the government that is now in the available legal bill. Then an agent in this letter, listed at least six pages, says that he believes that according to the answers he has already been given to transport the work from one house to another in Reykjavík, Kóppavog, he is being transferred from a educational board to a home of mines. It also says that under the work force of representatives of the staff of the Board of Education Agency and the National Research Institute, it has been proposed that the ship's activities and services of the National Social Services Agency have been organized. But at the end of his letter, it says that no decisions have been made regarding changes in the responsibilities of the staff of the study centre and the study centre, since the legislation on the National Institute of Education is assumed that it will not be done until the bill has become legal. A member of the General Assembly is questioning or at least concerned with the evidence that he already has, as the whole thing is all explained, reveals that what is being done is being totally taken into account by the proposed communities despite the legal review of these institutions and thus the legal action of these institutions has not yet been approved at the Council of the Council. Then he's referring to the transfer of employees. I think three members have been moved out of the Ministry. An agent refers also to the orders and projects of the new Commission and to the fact that the joint director of two institutions will become president of the Educational Agency, they plan to follow. An agent also criticizes the process of the case. So we're dealing with a serious matter here. An agent also speaks of the legal order to reflect a particular legal exchange between the legislature and the Commission and wants to draw our attention to the fact that this is a law bill where the minister is given a general legal authority to grant the establishment of the agency. An agent believes that it may be that the points he has considered to be significant should the transfer centre of the study centre be implemented prior to the decision made by the General Assembly, i.e. He is not convinced that it is actually legal to agree with the Education Agency bill rather than to the fish lab transport, if I understand it correctly, if the bill we're dealing with, on the Minister's Authority, cannot be fulfilled. He's critical of the administrative process. I'd like to go over the questions that an agent had to answer to the Ministry. He would like to be identified on what legal basis the Ministry of Education and Culture felt allowed to make an agreement with the head of a research agency, as well as the materials presented, and what the source was. The manager also wants to know on the legal basis of the activities of these three or four personnel from the Education and Culture Ministry of Education and Culture. He wants to know if these employees have any decision-making authority, i.e. The staff who were transferred from the Ministry to this institution, including the administration of administrative decisions as per the Ministry's Law, and then whether these decisions are made in the name of the Ministry or the Board of Education. I gave this opinion to the head of the General and Education Committee today. She was going to study it, and I think it matters for our work at the General and Education Committee that this is not done with another matter of doubt about whether the recovery is before. I wanted to think about something, too. When we create such administrative institutions, whether inside a ministry or an outside office, are we weakening or sponsoring another government or agency? For example, in the case I've been tracking here, it could possibly be that way. When they're moving jobs from the Ministry of Education to a government agency located outside the Ministry, they've not been building knowledge and human resources within the Ministry, they've been exported. It makes you wonder: " What is being strengthened? Is it just this particular new institution? At the same time, should the Ministry weaken? Then, in chapter 6, what is referred to. I don't think it's logical enough to support the proposal. I'm not saying that the ruling committees may not be reduced, they don't necessarily be as many as they are today, but I don't agree with what it says here that the Ministry considers that by the arrangement the possibility of being in the Ministry's organization of charges and decisions made by special government agencies is found in a special government unit within the Ministry. That it is considered sufficient to meet these lengths of arms that we can talk about, i.e. distance from the minister and the operation and policy and all the factors involved. So I'm a little worried about the tendency to drag everything into the Ministry and keep it with me, reducing all the democracies of our council members to get access to these matters. I don't think I can accept that. I agree with what we had earlier in talks, and I don't know what to say. Senators before me, I think it's wise to take it back into the committee to try to skim off that bait, because I think that even though some feel that the discussion has led to a number of things that many hadn't figured out before. I'll support it and hope it will be.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u119	President. This is where some speaker said before that this bill is a central control bill, a museum of power, and we see it. It is strange that the more we discuss it, the more the bill becomes crystal clear how it works to gain control over the government and to increase its power, to increase the power of Ministers to decide it alone or on its own, to move to an institution. And then there is. A senator came in with this administrative agency or whatever it is to be in the Ministry. For us on the Board of Directors and Control, I think I'm right about that it was explained that by being able to build this office at the Ministry and possibly take people who are now members of the decision-making committees and start some firm, that would add and increase the human resources, increase the experience in the scheme. But as far as I can understand why. In fact, a senator, and I had already understood it that way in 1st. on this education agency, that the Ministry is being reassigned. Am I right? Is it not, then, that we are pulling one way here and another direction somewhere else? Is it not necessary that we consider this whole administrative organization, not in pieces as it seems here? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u120	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. It may be this violence, which I have talked about in many speeches, which seems to be a little tamed by the rulers of this government. Many of the bills that have been put forward here since the government began have set a significant goal of drawing power and thereby reducing, as I tell the democratic coming of our members of Congress, to a large number of cases. I don't like it, I don't think it's good. I got tired of reminding myself of the General's research report, which included this article, pointing out that there was something to consider and how things were and how they should be changed. It's not that way. That's the other way back. I don't think that's good. For knowledge within the institutions and advisers, of course, it can be said that in both ways it can be as I said in my speech, but it is not enough to argue that this is to strengthen the human race or to increase knowledge and skills if it is being taken out of the plots at the same time. I don't think there's much more to it than that. I also see that smaller things and more things have not yet understood, or that at least does not interpret the same way when explaining how the law has worked until now, that's one thing. I think it's worth looking at a lot of ideas again.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u121	President. I think it may make matters worse on the kind of confusion I seem to be, and men seem to pull in different directions with whether administration agencies should be in the Ministry or whether to transfer them from the Ministry, or whether the judges' committees should be or not. I feel that these suggestions, such as they present to us here at the council, are certainly in control of the council. Let it be perhaps, a respectable president, without taking it literally. I think that with the initials put out here, and when you look into it in context, governments and government officials are creating some system that suits them this time and this time. It's suitable for someone to take it from the Ministry and other officials to the Ministry, but it's not for the government, and it's not for the Ministers. It's for the people who need to use the administration. I think it's all forgotten too often, and we forget about it a lot, too, because we're going on a little something about who's bossing what and who's doing it. That's what we always have to remember. All the information available here, linking it to the Education Office, occupies the administration and is worse service to the people of the country and worse for using the administration. I'd like to pray for a second. A senator to tell me his opinion on the possibility of moving employees from institutions to advisers and vice versa. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u122	Mr. President. I want to start by saying exactly what it is. A senator spoke of earlier with these administrative procedures and institutions, how it is. It's also this tendency to pull out a lot of things that have followed this government, and I've felt that it was growing. Also agree that this is for the people of the country who use the administration. It may well have been what an agent pointed out about a educational institution, as he says, that this may really have meaning for students and their guardians and local authorities of school. Then it is important that the Council receives adequate opportunities for the citizens to take their stand on any path it chooses, etc. as I crossed the line earlier. I think it's something the bill doesn't take care of. For transporting employees between recruitment and institutions and other such, I've been so mixed in it. I'm in favor of advertising, though, that everyone has the same opportunity to apply for positions as I've looked at what comes from the employee organisations for those details of the rationality. On the other hand, I also understand opportunities and knowledge that may include having served in some particular group of subjects and even being in charge of some particular institution for a long time and then going to the Ministry or such. Then, too, the party should be extremely qualified when it comes to an advertisement if it is advertised, or I look at the possibility that the person should have the job in the light of his knowledge.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u123	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Hv. A senator came on to discuss a new institution and a legal basis for its establishment, where a research centre and study centre and part of the Department of Education and Culture is united in one institution. Hv. A senator reviewed questions from the emissary of the Generals. I want to ask you why. A senator whether I am properly understood, or if she believes that the necessity for the new institution is accepted by this law bill that we are considering now, because in this change in the European Council of Government is precisely spoken of as allowing such unity to be formed within the council, but it can also be completed, if I understand it correctly, as is being done with this new agency that can take control decisions. My question is, " Count back." A senator that is not an option to establish in a legal way this new institution unless the General approves of this legal bill? So, what's with the Agency's bill as it is? A top-of-the-art Board of Education is working with you? How's it going? The members of this committee discussed this position, since I understand that the Agency has just established and has hired people and equipment and has done so?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u124	Mr. President. You see, that's what's happening and that's what we in the memory of the General and Education Committee have criticized first and last. The committee has worked well and has brought quite a bit of visitors to discuss this, but it doesn't change that it may be as a general agent to criticize it, it's a process, not only how it was handled by managers and so on, as he says and I understand, that the bill we're considering would actually be the key to the other to the course, because he says and wants to draw our attention to the general legal hearing. And then says: "These things may have meaning if the transfer centre of the Study Assessment Institute is to be conducted before the Council has taken a position on the matter. I understand that men are still going back, making things, as if we've been very critical, and the ministry's had employees transferred. Director's been hired. People have placed themselves in a Viking shelter, so nothing is going to be done almost anything but together. The answers the Ministry gives to an agent's inquiry fail because it is said that this will not be legal until the Enforcement Department bill is legal. They are saying that no decisions have been made regarding changes in the responsibilities of the staff of a learning agency and a research agency. This just doesn't match the facts we face, and we know that these changes have occurred.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u125	Mr. President. Eight. The bill we discuss is about laying down or evading regulations that require ordering and operating of co-ordination committees on moral standards for the administration and up to 25. The law says: "The Ministry of Peace gives governments advice on the interpretation of ethical principles in the following cases, provides instruction on them within the board of directors, and monitors their purpose. The Code, the moral standards proposed by the co-ordination committee for the management of the administrations, is thought to promote culture in the administrative sector, to work against corruption, and to influence everyday activities for the benefit of their work. The committee shall submit a report annually and the report shall be submitted to the Council as is currently in the law, but it is being proposed to change this. The Committee's work includes giving prime ministers an annual report on their work that will be provided if further measures to strengthen their trust in government administration, to reduce the risk of corruption, and to improve their effectiveness in administrative activities are proposed by the government. By removing everything that leads to this committee, it seems to me, and I'd like to ask you why. A senator whether it agrees with me in that it is being thrown away that the code of ethics should have an improved effect on day - to - day activities, strengthen confidence, and prevent corruption in the administration?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u126	Mr. President. That's one of the things I'm really worried about in this bill, that's exactly what it's about with a moral side. I may have felt that in the light of history and the accomplishments of this government, I have had every reason to worry about that. I can't see to the highest. Prime Minister, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, can only personally evaluate moral standards for the entire administration or for the government. I find it very sour to think, and really any prime minister. I don't think anyone can be above it. That one man should give his blessing on what's okay and what's not and what's not, and the criteria for the whole administration of the country, I think it's kind of crazy, it's just the only word that's gone through it. It might be asked, then, who would appreciate his own moral standards, his prime minister, his administrative affairs, or his work as ministers, and him then. I don't think it's good. I can't get this to work. You can get somebody's opinion. If he chooses to do so, he can. What is stated about values in the opinion of the greater part, I think there is a conflict. Moral standards are discussed. Then, according to the end-of-view analysis: the ◯Mei part believes that the code of ethics, discussion, and working with them should be an active part of the work of recruitment and institutions. Then I view all the moral standards, of course, that we have some baseline value, as part of an active factor. This is not done just somehow, some letter of law that is not in some moving process. In fact, I think that the more part speaks against what they say at the end. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u127	A respectable president. I'd like to look at this bill at the 2nd. in connection with certain broad lines of society. One of the best things that happened after a crash was a democratic awakening. What characterized the aftereffects of the collapse were frustration and rage; we saw it; we shared in it many, for example, here in the East. But the other was also characterized by the aftereffects of the collapse, which was a deep - seated need for democracies, conversation, deep analysis of the nation's future prospects, what could have gone wrong, and what might be done better. There were a lot of filing and democracys, that I knew, which were set up. For example, I view the application procedure for involvement in the European Union as a democratic procedure and is still on time. It included extensive consultations throughout the country, professional groups were at work, and hopefully will lead to the conclusion that the nation is making a big decision. A review of the Constitution was made, a major mass conference, a board of constitutions, and a board of directors. A major analysis of possibilities in the green economy was made, with some 50 conferences being held by the Parliament's Committee, which produced a large report. Business parties, rural communities, the government, the inhabitants of the country's national parish program, a great deal of democracy. The schedule of the day, which is a major project of this kind, was discovered, and so on. This was an agreement with an investment plan based on professional reporting, business stakeholders, government work with a large number of people. And I think it's kind of cool, it's about how to practice democracy. The democracy is not just a matter of choosing every four years, and then getting the more part power and doing what he wants. Secular democracy is a life - style. The democracy is something you practice every day. I don't think that a successful democratic society can be controlled in the 21st century - in which people are informed and people have access to Google and people want to be heard and people want to be listened to themselves - different from practicing active speech from day to day, I think they'll be done differently. Why am I talking about this? That's because I think this bill is a manifestation of another idea of democracy, and I think we're dealing with the idea of democracy. The very idea is that there are four - year - olds and more things that are needed because of his authority, his consultation, his conversation, or his decision - making, many people. This is an advanced concept of democracy, and it is rooted in a non-net society that did not have extensive public access to information; men may be able to check its cover and have the power wand. What have we seen? The government has tried to stop discussions with the European Union without asking the Council. Investment plan, this vast cooperation project, is blown off. A part of the country's program was blown off, a little bit back in. The green economy I mentioned earlier, this broad-scale consultation project that ended in a cool report, ended up as some drawer of old building upstairs in the Ministry of Presidency and the financial resources it was supposed to go out with texters from the Ministry of Presidency - a complete lack of respect for the whole process. We've had to do business here at the Congress Hall to protect democracy and trade, like the box. There's a lot of business here, and it needs to be protected. It's as if the board of directors doesn't care about this democratic tool. At the beginning of the week, the big issue was to be cut off, the location of the city's airport, out of the process; simply delegating the authority of a particular group and making this decision somewhere else. This is the old idea of democracy. Here at the council, we'll see this. There's nothing here to talk to the smaller part, nothing. It is a transpiration of this idea that the greater part is the control of this, that conversation and consultation are unnecessary and just meaningless. It's supposed to be all put down in the Ministry and set out there. We'll see what it's like to distribute money now. This is done only by announcements, government meetings - certainly good projects, tourism, and transportation, but nothing is being respected for financial support. Decisions are only taken elsewhere, and I'm sure they'll be placed in budgets. Then we see this bill, and it's exactly like this. Move to Organizations - Should It Be Talked to Someone? Is it not just possible to decide, that a minister should decide? It is by far the simplest, and most people do not have to listen to it. Is it not nice, too, for the prime minister to write this code? Does anyone else need to be doing that? Do we need some advice on that, don't you think it's just something we're writing up in the Ministry? You see, this has become a red thread of government approach. There is another idea, and a very old-fashioned idea, in all of the government's actions. This idea of democracy does not rhyme with the way society is and what is happening in the 21st century. People are informed, people know what they sing, people read, people google, people have human rights, people have freedom, people make noises, people want to be listened. What happened with Fish Room? The old idea of democracy as some form of authority from above - the major part controls, the smaller part can just go home to itself; other groups can go to their homes, I'll hire - I'll knock the whole thing off. When people were going to move the Fish Room by saying just at a meeting, we're going to move Fish Room. Don't ask the General, don't ask the staff of Fish Service, don't consult - it worked like a torpedo into the Agency. We've seen how this ideologies and political approach have led to a complete waste of time, talent, and resources, resulting in the release of the labor force of this institution. Now I'm not saying that it may not be a good idea at some point to move the Agency to Akureyri and move institutions abroad, it may well be a good idea. But doing it with an old-fashioned bidder, based on the ideas of democracy that are of 1916 or so, that's not going to work. It simply leads to waste, and fortunately, the plan was stopped, simply out of common sense. A member of the Generals points out that careful administrative procedures need to be done, and there is a need for consultation. It is not just a requirement for the same time, depending on the way it is, too, that is, more fortunately, in all other laws, there is a need for careful administrative management. This bill is partly proposed to adapt certain articles on the Council of Government after its conversion in 2010 or 2011. It may well have been necessary, and part of the bill is somehow so that you can view it as a very reasonable attempt to improve. But so are the two ordinances, that the minister may be able to deliver the organizations, and write the code. I think they're classy, and I think these things come from the deepest part of the government, and they're a testimony to it, as I've traced it, how it generally seems to be getting close, and I think that's a concern. A universal body is a vastly powerful organization. If there was one man, that man would be a perfect dictator, and he would rule a lot of things. We're in control here. We have the authority here. It is wise that this great power is divided over 63 different individuals; we represent different groups. This is a wise treatment. But there's always been a tendency, I think, and it's sad to see it so much in Iceland now in 2015, that some outside the Council, conducted, sometimes courts, in some states this army, try to gain this power, take it to heart. I've explained how this has been tried and is taking place during the reign of this government. Moving to institutions, arrangements to move to institutions, may seem innocent and of course innocent. Of course, we're supposed to have some flexibility in the administration. Why do all institutions need to be in Reykjavík? Could it not be wise to spread it all over the country and such? Is this not, however, a Thai language that needs to be discussed with people and to shape policies? It speaks of the livelihood of people. People who have children in school are being talked about, and they have decided to live somewhere. The interests of transporting the Agency, are they so urgent that a minister needs to be able to decide this promptly? Is it not true that the staff's interests are just what we should show them that we are taking this as a democratic consideration? That the democratic coverage shows them that it may be very urgent to transfer this institution, is it not respect for all concerned, and does it not lead to such a decision not to be like a destroyer into the Agency, but to be accepted? I think it's possible to transport an institution like a fish lab for a long time, as has been suggested in reports. You can use the staff handle to do that, but I also think that we should have the arrangement this way, as we do in many matters, that we should plan and discuss the general principle of things. So sometimes it is good to have institutions all over the country, but I have never seen that the fundamental talk on, for example, which agencies would be good to have all over the country. Isn't there some distinction? It is also important for the country to have a powerful capital. It is not good for the people of the Cape of the Hornfjord that an institution he must attend is at the Ísafjörður. It's not the best service in the Cape. It is also a matter of interest to the country that powerful services are in one place and are at the center of transportation. This needs to be discussed openly. We need to discuss what we're going to get, what economy, what improved service, what improved management we're going to get out of the move. Is this not a Thai task to consult with people, universities, academics, business representatives, people, Icelanders, about how we want these matters to be settled? For example, this would prevent us from upset an entire institution for one year because of some bullshit. The Council reduces waste. It improves the use of talent, money, and time. This whole thing is my thing -- but not all of it, I've traced it to the fact that it's a set of rules that are all right and normal. For example, I have a positive view that it is possible to move to employees in the board and its institutions. This may require otherwise changes in the recruitment process. I have this idea of the Board of Directors and the institutions that this should work as one of the workplace, as the workplace generally does. When you're hired as a journalist in the News magazine, you're hired to do something, and then you may find yourself better at writing about something else, leaving the news department at the cultural department or something like that. This also makes me feel that it should be normal within the Board of Directors. We may not be there entirely, but I feel that this is how it needs to work. I have a more positive view of these changes than others. It's a little classy on the bill that employees in the board and its institutions can be moved, but it will only be done with a broad agreement with all parties, and all parties need to be agreed, except what. On the other hand, an institution with no logical support may be transferred to the country or to the capital, for it, of course, works in both directions. It seems quite strange to me that these provisions for transport are more due to the government's desire to engage in very old - fashioned, sensuous democracy, where power is taken to the greater extent and open - horned consultations. Then there's moral standards. It makes me feel that there is an amazing fundamental difference in understanding. Writing and creating moral standards is not an important task in itself. There's one thing. I have no doubt that there may be a way of doing this in the Ministry of Presidency. One is to write a moral code, but it is another matter to build confidence in them and to make sure that people follow them and make adjustments so that people in general feel that they have some value and are acting in harmony with them. To that end, it is wise to let outsiders take care of the protocols and their coordinations. It reduces trust in them and dignifies them to leave the same party to follow up on their management, their type and coordination, and their follow-up. It's an amazing flaw, but it describes this major problem in government management that they don't understand democracy, they don't understand consultation, they don't understand natural communication and government in the 21st century.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u128	Mr. President. This bill is in many respects a symbol of the power promotion that identifies the forward movement and the Independence Party during the period in which we live and is echoed by the time when these classes went out for 12 years with the government as well. At the same time, at the General Assembly today, the Lawgiver was in the heel of the then prime minister. It's just the same today. It looks like nothing more than a top. Prime Minister Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson has become the real Speaker of Congress. He's in charge of Congress. This abuse of power, a misunderstanding of democracy, a misunderstanding of how to use the power of most things as a dog. paritaprevir Steingrímsson Steingmímsson used to trace it in an excellent way. For example, it appears in our daily lives, mine as a member of the General Assembly, in that the more part that is now uses conscious power to prevent suggestions offered by the government in front of Congress that have received a sound base and that have been given a positive report from all counselors. The less part of it is oppressiond by the majority. This does not change the fact that here we are talking about certain fundamental factors, and the underlying factors include what I think is a reasonable wish, even a requirement for those living apart from the capital, to get more work done, such as those who develop. I'm asking why. A senator whether he agrees with me on the fundamental basis that the country's construction should be further enjoyed by the State as well as on whether there is no way to secure it without taking the power - consuming ways reflected in this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u129	A respectable president. I think that the power process, which is what it is. A senator calls out so well, always ends up in a ditch because society has changed. We're looking at a community now, the council, where everyone uses their utmost rights, which is considerable, because we live in a democratic community, living in a human rights community, and all uses them their utmost rights, and we also see it in a labour market. And when everyone uses their full rights and everything's steel in steel here and there in society, we waste time, we waste talent, we waste money. Therefore, communication, conversation, and active democracy are always much better, just practitional, even though you don't say any more. Furthermore, it is also naturally based on human rights as a human being. Moving jobs abroad, of course, there are plenty of successful public institutions who carry jobs all over the country, such as the head of the state tax, he took a very successful operation, the government tax president, to distribute the jobs of that institution all over the country, just a very good thing. I would call for this to be discussed in a much greater context. There are also two things, I'd like to mention, which need to be put in context, which are the most I think about professional development in Iceland, they should, under any circumstances, be in the best interests of the country, it's the Internet. The Internet is all over the country and communication network throughout the country should make it possible for people to work where they want to. This is very good news for the country's settlement, and it was given to a Union policy file once without a location. There are ideal conditions for that. And the rest is tourism. People are coming here to buy travel services, not just in the capital, but in the country. We're supposed to put this in context too. [[The president calls.]] I think the recent developments in Iceland's trade have been very good news to the region.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u130	Sometimes life goes sour. I moved the proposal for jobs without a location. Then I was in a position of government. She received a considerable coverage, and eventually, in the force of the conversation, the council found that and after searching for counsel from outside the council as we always do, this is a good proposal, and it is likely to improve the community, and it was agreed. In this case, we look forward to the power gain that is first expressed in the highest power. It seems that the prime minister made a decision to move a Fish Room to improve his own interests in the district he is serving at the council. He went north and announced the transfer; no one had heard of it before outside the government. This is an example of self - importance. With the collapse, the demand for greater democracy was renewed, and it was accomplished. Congress gained a higher power as it should toward the Commission, but it's about to go back. [[The president calls.]] And is it not to reflect in this very exercise of authority and the freckles expressed in the intention of bringing all authority into the hands of one minister regarding such an important matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u131	Mr. President. Yeah, absolutely. I believe by the methodology and approach of this government, there has been a severe setback in a democratic awakening, which at least I and I have. A senator experienced after a crash, and all the people experienced it. The government went out of their way to quit or put into a corner or a drawer of various important democratic procedures here that were going on. I explained in my speech that it would have been just a red thread, and not a question of consultation, not a meaningful approach, and the government did not even consider it its duty, such as in the labour market, and not a meaningful consultation when it is clearly needed. So this is obviously a policy and a policy of power, yes, we have seen examples of it. The prime minister tried to transport a fish room with authority, but of course he ran to the rear with it because these things cannot be done. They tried to take down Reykjavíkur Airport and his affairs with some old - fashioned bitch here at the beginning of the week. [[The president calls.]] Of course, that garment did not make them coats. [[The president calls.]] All these advantages to this excess of power have simply been designed to bring an end to our time here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u132	Mr. President. I thank the senator a very good speech, he carefully reviewed what we have been dealing with after the government took over and, as previously, we have discussed in this public talk, i.e. to take in more power, to cut down everything that was done, and then to try to scratch the tray and bring some things back in our own name so that we could say: " We did this because we have power and possessions. ' It is that old - fashioned form of authority, as we have been talking about. I thought that review was why. A senator of the good. In view of the findings of this bill, at least in terms of the transfer of the institutions, I ask that the senator feel that such support for regional policy, to perform this kind of transport in the way this was intended. I agree that it would have been interesting to see a list of institutions that could possibly be moved by the government's opinion. So, the other thing is, how do we see it as a result of increasing our democracies to such a process? What should we put into law, how should we direct it, in what form, so that we can share in it here and have more access to it? How does the senator picture this? It was deliberately taken out at the time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u133	A respectable president. The laws were taken from the law, and I have felt that it was so absurd to simply say that if they were taken from the law and could not, they should not be put back in. If we were to put a lot of things back into the laws that have been taken from them alone, it would be a course to take into account certain governmental and legal problems. This is a very strange approach to me. I picture the assembly's approach to this, so this is presented, for example, as a concierge proposal. It would be like a number of other things we do in such matters as transport programmes and regional policy as well as a controversy proposal; a plan on where public jobs should be located, it can be emblazoned to do so. I can also see that if, for any reason and with good reason, some organizations are being exported to the country, it is also done by a political arrangement discussed here. I hope to the highest. The prime minister learned from this fishing area that the community is not that he can say at a meeting: We are moving to Fish Room. V.E.G. A minister is not understanding, I think, the value of a process, a process that leads to reconciliation. Clearly, he does not believe that going through such a process, such as the Council, could eventually save time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u134	A respectable president. That's where we agree, me and what. Senator, commander. The prime minister does not know the art of conversation needed to do the work he is doing. But because we're talking about the independence of the administrative institutions and the lack of the policy - of course, she did, this was done with the discussions here, in three conferences at the council, it was decided. These institutions we can give an example of, Bank Office, the office of special prosecutors, financiers, etc. - I'd like to ask the senator if he thinks he's going to weigh the independence of these institutions from the administrations and councilmen, because these institutions are to be kept around the administrations, by doing this in the way suggested in the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u135	A respectable president. Yeah, definitely. I think there's one of the key elements in this: It's a barrier to the independence of the institutions. Moving to an institution - it can be thought of as some form of revenge. That may be a strong statement, but we have seen organizations laid down in the wake of saying something that did not please the stewards of power. A man can imagine that this power to move institutions somewhere where it's not fun to be -- I don't know exactly where it is in Iceland, I like to be everywhere in Iceland. But you can imagine such a series of events where this vote is applied for a different purpose. Hence, it is also so important that such a decision is bound to a process that when it is taken, it is above this doubt and transcends these suspicions.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u136	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for an excellent speech, he put the subject of this bill into a changed context that was interesting. It is true that the Council has great power and that if it were in one person's hand, rather than spread to 63, there was great authority. The problem is that at times this power, which should be distributed to 63 individuals and many categories and representatives of different viewpoints, has, in effect, - the real power, has caused de lno - to be virtually in the hands of one person. For example, there is a time when we have had a bossy and counselful prime minister who has had a strong hold on the greater part that they supported during a council, and he has listened to them completely. I'm not from the fact that there was a desire at least for the present extreme. Prime Minister to have it this way. I don't think he is afraid to take power as much as some uncalled prime ministers did on their day of well - being. But taking it into a larger context, this is the question of how democracy is actually guaranteed. Sometimes it is said that it involves distributing power and separating the power of the community, perhaps first and last in never forgetting where it causes growth, from people. It is a question of whether the present government is to some extent forgetting it too. So second of all, because of what. The senator spoke in a pleasant way about the viewpoint that, of course, is valid in this discussion, that it is also important to have a powerful capital. It may be practical to have a powerful, well - organized highest government in one place. But this does not change the normal view of other parts of the country that public service is being distributed and that it is near to those who enjoy it. Also, this does not change the fact that governments and activities can well be located and cared for in other places than here on the southeast corner, such as organizations that have nothing to do with their daily activities.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u137	A respectable president. I wholeheartedly agree that there are many jobs, and there are good measures in Iceland that have led to the work of the important institutions being here and there; and so is this point that important services are closer to those who need them. It breaks a pot when it comes to health care, for example, and for all such public service. I think it's a very important project that needs to be put on, and maybe it should be done under the hat of a real design or something like that. For one of the democratic projects, a national parish program - it was also an excellent setting that has been largely laid to define what would be right in here and what would be a good opportunity to have there and so forth in the streets. [[Up front.]] But the abuse of power - the fishing business - is a fine example of what is present at this time. The prime minister wants to have power, but he also is blessed beyond his ability, for he will not be given anything in spite of this gesture. It took his coworker, huh? paritaprevir Höskuldur Þór Þórhallsson, half a day to land on the same thing, his plan to seize an organization of three rural societies would come into the sand in record time. Indeed, there are qualities to show the power. If there's something we should have learned from the Commission reports, the interpretations of the Aldus procedure, and the discussion after a crash, we should be alert to the promotion of power.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u138	Mr. President. There I agree, and for this we are here, to support, not to be given. If the collapse and all of them were to teach us something, then it is never going to be as much like sleeping with the state as it did in the years leading up to that and having lied to us that something that is perfectly crazy is good. That is why questions need always be asked by critical ones. But I, who is interested in the distribution of public functions - do have it in the blood, and often discuss it with my people around the country - is primarily grieved at this matter. That is because I believe Prime Minister and High Priest and Government have brought this march into disrepute of a very good mind and natural; i.e. Of course, it is possible to make a decision to move to the center of this kind, but it needs to be done intelligently. I'm saying exactly as it is, I haven't necessarily meant that there should be total legality everywhere, but it seems to me that in the light of this experience it is inevitable to legalize the process and preparation and how the interests of employees are paid will come to mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u139	A respectable president. I agree that this whole thing is sad. It hurts for Fish Room. The workers there quit their jobs because they were not planning to move. So it was a blow to Fish Room operation. There were bad headlines out there for Akureyri. As if it were something terrible to move to Akureyri, really a little boring talk about it. Of course, living in Akureyri is fine. The men have lost sight of it, in this clumsiness of all, and in these pathetic efforts to exercise power, that by itself it is a fine idea, and has been torn in good reports and traced, to have a Fishing Room in Akureyri. But this has to happen over a period of time. And if we draw a positive lesson from this, he is aware that we must set such a legal process, and we should keep it so that we would try to keep some picture under the same circumstances. In any case, this example should show that decisions like this are subject to whims.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u140	Mr. President. I made a note here on my second visit, reviewing all the fundamental reasons I consider to be important in my speech yesterday, for after observing the discussion, I feel that there is reason to sharpen the overall thoughts we see in the bill. Hv. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson, who spoke before me, actually made it a subject, i.e. The objective of the bill. What is the objective, the overall thought expressed in the bill in order to achieve that goal? The point that has been most prominent in the discussion is the terms of Article 1. That a minister is authorized to move the establishments unless it is otherwise measured by law, and is not defined, as I went over in my first speech, how the minister's decision should be made precisely. As the bill stands now, it is entirely in the power of a minister at any time to make such decisions, he should not consult on such decisions, he should not be carried under the council, and this is criticized in the opinion of the object. Why do we want to be able to move organizations into our home? That is the question we must ask ourselves. Hv. The majority of the local Parliaments have taken a recent example, the fishing business, as an example of their willingness to move government agencies to land. Those who are spoken of as such suggestions, i.e. that a minister has such authority, points out that it needs to be there. Others say: This needs to be more specific, better defined, although no one has objected to the fact that there may be good reasoning and grammatical evidence for transporting organizations, distributing public activity across the country. If we look at the total sense, some of the goals of the law, this 1st article - yes, there may be a perplexing evidence that we want to spread some activity out of the country, to transport organizations - is that not the smell of some kind of community policy? That's what happened. paritaprevir Steingrímsson Steingmursson made up the subject. So you wonder, and it's actually my deep conviction - after having participated in a huge project during the last terms, called national parish programmes, and was an attempt to shift the regional policy from South experts, as they are sometimes called, to the areas, and this process was at least a very valuable lesson to me. A team in this process was called national meetings held in individual parts of the country where both local residents met, including key stakeholders, such as the labour market parties, school institutions, and other key areas in the areas. These people sat down and crossed their parishes and threats that might confront such an area. The result was a strategy for each region, which I consider to be, in effect, the formation of a new national geographic policy. It also came to the point that as soon as we were on these general lines, plans for each area would need to be given special consideration to the so - called fractures that measures were made in that area. All of this led to a process of making decision - making closer to the local people. Of course, we have a long story, and often nothing particularly successful, of community action set up here in Reykjavík, in councils, where some kind of project, a job structure, often a huge task that has been intended to save everything. For example, we can mention the major building project in the East, but there are also many examples, smaller and larger, of such decisions that will build up. They haven't necessarily been built in a process like this. They haven't necessarily been based on a democratic process where people come together and discuss things: What is the most basic thing we need here? I thought it was very interesting, Mr. President, because I may not have known exactly what I expected out of this mess, what it was that people wanted. You didn't necessarily realize that. But I was delighted to learn that priorities in many parts of the country were educational opportunities in the area, that people had good access to local education. Points that were also very high on paper were the technology to take advantage of educational opportunities, i.e. high speed connection and communication; and this technology is also a top priority for all sectoral development today. An inadequate high - speed connection was precisely listed as one of the threats of international tourism so that such service could not be operated effectively. Transports, communications, education - these were things that would come out of people's minds. There were other things mentioned. There we were watching our attendance opportunities, if we could say, "What are the tools to create a new application in the districts? " The fears were to make them feel that basic services would be unacceptable, whether as law enforcement, health care, or such, which would require special efforts to build up. In fact, we were talking both defensive and offensive, but no one was asking for big solutions from the south. It was completely co-marked with all these meetings and their results, there was no one asking for such a thing. What people were asking for when they were asking themselves what they wanted to do: Make sure the insides. If they are to be built in this country, there must be sound infrastructures all over the country so that people can create their own opportunities, not lack their ideas. We're clear on this. We don't need ideas for a job structure. Because we work here to talk about our tourism and its value, it is especially because people have been following their own ideas, dreams, using various means of service to tourists traveling around the country, which makes it fun to get around. It's not just nature that may be the main attraction. When people are on the scene watching nature, they also face all kinds of service that has been thrown out of the country because people have taken advantage of their opportunities. This is what impressed me to realize that when you ask people yourself, there may be other results, but when things are determined in councils or here at a council where the thought may be to save a situation with a simple solution, which is to be solved. Let's put down one job and make everyone there, and that's what it's all about. It is similar with this idea, yes, but the goal of the bill is that we can move more public jobs to a country that is a good goal, I'll take it up. This is not necessarily done, so some minister should be able to make that decision and check institutions like pawns on a board to make the books look better on the job. The location of the activity at home needs to be considered, what people are asking for. That's why I feel that motion is just a little off. We have many examples in which people have been asking for such assignments. I can mention an example from a National Library registration project, for example, a very good job that created jobs for a country. It has been difficult to get funds to keep these projects going, but it is vital that a vast task be done. We have a lot of such projects. We've just received funding for the development of tourist facilities, which are also part of a country's job development. On one hand we're looking at a cut off on budgets for a number of such jobs across the country, a landing so that I mention another example, but at the same time it's putting in here a complete open warrant so that other jobs can be moved out onto the country without any consultation with those who work inside them, with those who live in the local setting; without any such process being written out. Mr. President. I see my time has passed pretty quickly on this tour. But my major conclusion, after listening to this discussion, is that this is a goal that I think we can all agree, but the system proposed is not based on any democratic procedure. This is primarily an open source for one minister to make decisions about the transfers of strains without a written statement, how exactly to handle that authority, how to make this decision, and what viewpoint should be considered. At the same time, we have observed that all the work that was done during the last terms - in terms of the parish plans I went over here, a number of such small and scattered projects across the country - has been superseded, despite trying to improve the funding for it gradually, since local authorities and citizens throughout the country have called upon them all. [[The president calls.]] So I ask myself, Mr. President, if the right hand doesn't know what the left is doing in this government. I don't think the suggestions under which they are here serve the purpose that they are meant to fulfill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u141	Mr. President. This bill clearly shows the fundamental forces. Government goes into democracy. Their understanding of democracy is that it is okay to let a knee follow the belly if you have more things. This is a government that came to power with just more than 50%, today is a long busload of trust, has no authority anymore, but it does not learn from experience. She does not understand that what the people wanted was a complete change in the power that came here before a collapse. For a short time, we were able to return to the developments that had taken place here, and the Council received a significant increase in power following the study report, which pointed out that the Agency had far too much control over the legislatures of the legislator. Today, I think I can say that evolution is all becoming the same way as it became here in 1995. That doesn't change the fact that I agree with the objective of the bill, and I heard it coming. paritaprevir That she was too was, as was Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter. She said: "The main goal is, of course, to try to balance it or to let more justice be in the position of jobs, to let it be desired. They want the country to have more than it does today of its Kingdom - preaching activities. But we've walked that path before. I was in a government that pondered and began a similar journey, but when she had dipped her toe in, it became evident to men that this was the wrong procedure, and then they made a conscious effort to increase the number of branch offices in the country. It's a non-replacement job that I think of as the best way to balance the country's settlement with these materials. It's not what. A senator agreed that there are ways to which there are few and, of course, should be much more appropriate in this matter? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u142	Mr. President. If I have a right to my right, I think the current government has received within 50% votes in the last election, even though it has received a greater proportion of members of the council. Hv. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson will discuss the majority, and there is, of course, something to consider after the many recent failures, according to a study report that was very thorough over the politicians, thought to be one of the reasons why the collapse became as bad as it really was. Of course, the Western countries passed through a crisis, but not to be forgotten about the exact conditions in Iceland, we were able to say, in part, that the politicians were part of it. It specifically discussed the majority talk, the shepherding, and all that is related to it. It's striking when you hear the People's School of the Government, chief. Ministers, insist that the majority of matters need not be discussed because they have to be discussed because the majority need not discuss matters. It's a very sad understanding of democracy, the foundation of democracy is the discussion, where people work, and things change and develop in the conversation. That is why we are having the conversation so that we can come closer to some good solution. That's why I've sometimes talked about how it would be good for Iceland to have minor governments for two, three terms just so we'll see some changes in the politicians. About what question? I know that some people are concerned about that term because they believe that branch offices are more cut down than headquarters and so on, but we have many good examples where it has not been. Let us look for changes in the government taxpayer's work, which has been a general delight in the spread of national taxpayers' services. [[The president calls.]] It uses technology to the limit, so, in spite of various concerns, I agree with my total thinking. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u143	Mr. President. They lead to a smooth route of action and the setting of jobs in the region through branch offices. Yet, I can say that after the route of a job without a location was accepted at the council and that the council began to implement it, as it were, the terms of the Senate resolutions, were found to be hard to deal with. In one case, the agent of the Generals agreed with a man who charged a hearing on the grounds that he had been discriminated against because he lived in Reykjavík. It may have to be tried by some means by trying to legalize the need to prevent this from being used directly for this purpose. That was the original purpose. So it was accepted at the time, and all reviews suggested that it was all right. Yet, that led to the conclusion. But we have the examples, like what? A senator spoke of; the tax, Hafro, and then the Fish Room. These three institutions are symbols of how jobs can be exported to land without causing some disaster in the lives of someone or anyone. But that's what we ran into in 1993 and 1994 when the government I sat in them agreed well on a report that seven agencies were to be exported to shore and it was started and immediately hit by this rock and turned around. At that point, a direct policy was developed after this was the way. Then people came to the conclusion that Reykjavík was overworked by public employment, and I'll agree with that. I think the country deserves more work and can be placed. On the other hand, the abuse of power by present rulers is so great that they prefer to do so, just as they choose to manage the council by letting their knees follow their abdomen, make decisions, and listen nothing to others. I say immature democracy. [[The president calls.]] These men use democracy as a game pop and their toy to perform their will without even asking anyone, a king or a priest.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u144	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's campaign for these comments. I can give you other successful examples. I can mention the EEA, where jobs without location have been advertised, and this process has brought me pleasure. You might think of this in more cases. However, I reiterate that some functions are difficult to transport or combine. I mention, for example, schools that are very important to have the place, schools are often the heart of each community, and it can be very difficult to do so when it comes to unity in large areas of school, where professional leaders will disappear from their homes and so on. I think there, of course, it's going to have to look at the nature of the operation in each case. However, I wholeheartedly agree. A senator with regard to this understanding of democracy. It is for us who are involved in politics a measure of concern if they believe that democracy is merely a matter of voting, and the conclusion is that if more people choose one option more than another, it is the right and cannot be discussed. I remember when I was first speaking for the last term that democratic education would be introduced into school records and was asked at one meeting: Are you saying that if students vote, if more part of the student chooses that two plus two are five, two and two would just stop being four? This is not a good understanding of democracy. The conversation must always be the subject of democracy. In fact, my favorite note is in John Stuart Mill, who said: "It is so important that even if someone has the wrong opinion, only the conversation of these two opinions can lead us to a closer bargaining route. That is to be the case at the General Assembly of the Icelanders, that is to be a certain seminar. Therefore, I miss the small voice that may be heard from representatives of the greater part of this key discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u145	President. It is true that the main objective, the main element, of this bill, is the transport of Fishing Room. We can also call it, if we want to say it in a better way, to move public work abroad. We've debated whether it's the right way to take an entire organization with a man and a mouse and we're going to transfer it to another quarter of the country with a power messenger. It has been seen in winter that it is not acceptable; not because people don't want to move jobs to the country or after the streets, but because they are not acceptable to the people who work at the agency. These are living people, families with children whose lives are here, and they don't want to be moved that way. I think we can all agree that this approach is not acceptable. That is why the question is, Once we find out that this method is not acceptable and we want a different approach - we all agree that our territory should be divided, so to speak, a geographic policy is spoken. We are all united, or marked, by the words used. Nor must this discussion be carried all over into what seems to be now only being removed again, that there is no need to think of the capital as well. [[The president calls.]] It's one of those things that rings in my head when they talk about regionalism, i.e. That we're talking about the whole country outside the capital area. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u146	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir for these comments. I believe it is proper to say that when we were working on the projection of the parish plans, there was also a press conference for the capital area. What may have struck me is that circumstances are different, not just between the settlements and the capital area, but they are different. Some are on the run and others are defensive, so we just say it the way it is. So there were different circumstances. Yet, a person felt that in the capital area, for example, education was not a concern. Nor was this true of all parts of the country, but in some lands people were concerned about it. Of course, circumstances differ. However, I wholeheartedly agree. A senator for a regional policy to revolve around the country. Capital cities are important for the country, just as the settlements are important to each other and to the rest of the country. It is important for the country to have a powerful capital. That's why we're supposed to try to think it all together. There's nothing I know more boring than trying to bury people in holes by where they live in the country, because in spite of everything, we're only over 300 grand in this small country and there's so many things we have in common. However, we must be aware of the potential benefits of living where the government is, of basic cultural institutions, of university institutions, of opportunities, but all of this must play together. Many of these institutions have done tremendous good things. As an example, I mention Iceland's University and its teachers around the country, an important setting that gives the university and the capital area no less than the university gives the country its home through this series. [[The president calls.]] There's a complete bond between you and me.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u147	A respectable president. In this discussion, there are some things that we can see. Lately, the word "power " has been used in discourses, and I want to get to know that this bill describes it. It's not just in pars. The bill thinks it's another one too. They're going to pull the power. An article on the Coordination Committee on Moral Orders makes it easy to see how much power can be drawn into the Ministry of Presidency. Then this article on the administrations; it appears that the Ministry, and ministers of their chief men, can only decide for themselves how the administration is treated and what the setting of it is. I think it's very bad, especially for the people in the country who are supposed to enjoy this service. They've also come up for discussion, and I have to admit that I had not realized that this could have the effect, these Ministers that are now supposed to be legally established. They have been set up, and one may not have felt that it was unwise for ministers to consult with smaller groups for a government meeting. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Parliament: How does she feel about legalizing these Ministers on the other hand financial and economic matters? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u148	Mr. President. That's a good question for me. I haven't been inside the Ministers' Committee in my speeches until now. That's maybe because other things I thought were on top of them. But I have experience with ministers who were active during the last term, even though they were not legalized. For example, it included a Minister's Committee on Equal Opportunities, as well as economics, financial matters. This is a thought - provoking point because it is primarily being considered for the legalisation of two Ministerial Committees, which is thus making them metal groups particularly high below the head, as I understand the bill. First, I would have thought normal that each government dictates what Ministers she wanted to operate, if she at all wanted to have such committees active. This would be done to raise specific groups of people that the government would be interested in getting a political advantage. That's how I would have imagined that the Ministers Committees could actually work, for they may be primarily trying to ensure cross-cutting cooperation on certain seminars that do not belong in one appointed Ministry. Whether it takes a special Minister's Committee on State and Economics that belong in the same Ministry now - I don't think there's any particular reason to legalize it. I think it sounds like every government should be able to determine if it chooses to have the Ministers' Committees and then can use that form to raise certain political issues. Here we do not have the tradition, as it is in many other parts of the North, that every time the government orderes decisions. We'll see to it that the Ministry of Equal Opportunities and the Ministry of Sustainable Development is a number of times in Ministers of many governments in other countries. For example, the Ministers'committees could be used for such a purpose. [[The president calls.]] But you ask about the need to legalize such a law.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u149	Mr. President. Even if not at all, it is good to have an opportunity to discuss this matter more fully. The prime minister here who would have liked to have at least part of the discussion, for it has likely been of interest to direct questions to him. But the highest. Clearly, a minister has been very busy this hour we've been discussing this matter. I think some of the problem with this bill, which is pretty strange when you start to look at it better, is that it's a cognition of some sort of entirely related factors involved in Iceland's Management Board. It's some kind of vomit that's been there at the Ministry of Presidency, and at the top of the drawer, it's got a warrant for moving Fish Room to Akureyri. It is dressed here in a suit where a minister is granted authority to determine the location of an institution under which he will not be heard unless the law says otherwise. The bill is now not following a paper on what is in many other ways recommended by the law. What will be the court case if this is now approved? It is reasonable to assume that the Council of Government has residences in Reykjavík and the Supreme Court, and unsuspecting other institutions are still under law as to where they have headquarters. For example, this could have been followed by the bill as such a good information sharing or good planning, but it does not. Of course, you've wondered about it, if it's the main motive and it's so dressed up in this outfit that there's such conflicting changes, some very little ones, on the board's law otherwise so that it might look better, none of them absolutely need to be seen. Why didn't the government deliver ministers, give them a simple bill that they could get legal permission to move the headquarters of the Fish Room to Akureyri? Was it not simpler than talking it into this and actually more honest, for then it was just the discussion of it, its pros and cons, and would probably have been aghast of the unfortunate practices that were with the beginning of that case? V.E.G. In fact, a minister has asked a good deal of respect about it, publicly acknowledged that this might have been the case better, and he is a man more in himself. He has backed down that this entry will then take a long time and will be taken into account in the interests of employees and no one will be pressured or applied on any money in an attempt to move. In this way, I think the problem is solved. And in order not to interfere, I feel it would be an excellent option to move in the focus of this kind, such as the Akureyris, since it was chosen there. But it is the method that really matters, and it has thwarted this cause that it is just to distribute public activity throughout the country, and it can be properly located and well established in other places than 101. Hv. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson gave an interesting talk, and in fact, I answered him a little. One thing like that. A candidate took up the discussion was contrary to this thought of distributing public affairs about that country and, quite correctly, that it was also important to have a powerful capital, well - organized, powerful capital, in which the highest government was in one place. Of course, there are a number of practical factors, and no one is talking about distributing it or taking the most intimate office, the highest and most important authority, or their headquarters any other. I haven't heard any ideas, except loosely here on the tunnel, about moving the Secret Bank west onto a feather or the Supreme Court north of the country or something like that, we're not talking about it. We're not talking about the more distant projects in this country than a service agency at the seabed in the country. And isn't it quite the same in one of Iceland's most powerful sealands? Yes, I think so, if there's a place to live well with her. The same has been true of a person who has often been identified by agricultural support. Of course, it's a little strange that they're on an equal scale here in the capital area. Even the remnant of the research organization, RALA, have not been able to move to the Netherlands yet. Farmers have chosen to build their world headquarters here, they could have been somewhere else, etc. Thus, in Iceland, 2/3 parts of the country live here in one relatively limited part of the country, the capital area. There is a greater compression of the population than we know in most parts of Europe's population. There is no physical laws, and it does not need to be that the capital is the largest city in the country or that more and less of all government agencies are to be built up completely centrally by the capital itself. The historical, fun theory is that it developed in Iceland in part because the kanselí was moved from Copenhagen to Reykjavík, and somehow it was built around the canoe when it was returned home. Some countries that have faced this development, for example after recent independence, even large countries, have chosen not to locate the capital in the largest city of that country, but rather to build a new capital somewhere in the middle of the country, from the foundation even, as Brazil and Australia, who built the cities of Brazil and Canberra, as capitals almost from the foundation. There were much larger cities in Australia, Sidney and Melbourne, but they still built Canberra in a country a bit central, where she lay well connected to all the Australian skulls. New Zealand had its headquarters and, in fact, its largest city, Auckland, in the early decades of independence, so that it was more central and better located in the country to Wellington at the swimming point between the North and South Islands, and is probably Auckland by two times if not three times the city of Wellington or at least at the time. I'm gonna mention it here, Mr. President, just to expand our horizons when we're talking about it, I think that's okay. I'm not suggesting that the capital be moved from Reykjavík, but I'm not letting myself keep my views on the fact that there are ways to build and structure and development in Iceland, in a very different way from what has developed. And I believe that this massive compression is inhabited, and a disorder inhabited by many parts of the country is a lesion. I think it's a waste of future instruments and possibilities, and I think it's losing a lot of value with every lost habitat. Therefore, I would like to include only those living in other parts of the country, as well as those of others, and think that they have a prior requirement for public service and share in it, access to it, but also in the sense that it supports and builds up the future prospects of their land, and so that, as practically speaking and wise, they also care for the public spread of the land. There are two factors in which I find a pessimism, on the other hand, closer to people in all the country as close as possible to them, and they are built up that way, and they should be the goal in themselves to reduce its central control or direction. The other is that various projects and activities of the State are not so dependent on their location that it may be a good idea to distribute them, to strengthen others, and to achieve other human goals, such as in urban and evolutionary matters, with such reasonable politics. For example, the Norwegians have made somewhat conscious and specific, and I mentioned an example of this in a speech or an answer here yesterday or yesterday, in which they have built, for example, a powerful headquarters in Finnmark, Tromsö, with a powerful university and a hospital specialised for teleology, etc. They have located the country's largest technological university in Þrándheim, the headquarters of their territory service in Bodö, and could be counted for a long time. I've seen nothing else, and I've observed Norwegian politics reasonably, but that this is a good thing. It is normal to discuss this transport of Fish Service, it has been criticized, but I think it is good to also cover various other viewpoints that are involved in this discussion if we are speaking of the distribution of public jobs and activities and the activities and transport of the institutions in general. This is what I would like to add to the discussion, Mr. President, would have been able to say much more, but I'm sure we're running out of time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u150	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Hv. A senator wondered why these laws are being passed, because one and another are picked to change the law on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland. If I understand why. A member of Congress believes that such legislation is being obtained primarily as a fish lab. The memory of the committee's opinion is critical and feels that this is an abnormal expeditation of the legislator, and if the legislator does not have a higher risk of trouble and trouble, and that it will not contribute to professional, responsible, and fairness of practice if a minister's whim is already in charge. Of course, we have the situation so clear in front of us as to how the planned transport of the Fish Room was planned, where we can see it only right away on that decision and how it was realized that they have weakened that important surveillance agency. And the people who make the Agency what it is are, naturally, in kind of wounds after the way it was done. Of course, it is in some social situation that may change from moving to more prosperous ones at the same time. I want to ask you why. A senator whether it's just enough to fall away from these changes to prevent such nonsense, how was it possible for Fisk's application, if that's enough, or if we somehow need to strengthen the law and create some process to prevent such mistakes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u151	Mr. President. I'd like to first state that I've taken out for it, like others expected, how it's been to the staff of Fish Labs. I know many good people who work there, have communicated with them over the years, and no one can understand my words so that I can be justified in any way in which this was done. It was completely out of bed the other way and started at the wrong end and it's not to be followed. How do we deal with this in the future, and what kind of law is this supposed to be? One way is that the General needs to be involved in each case, if you move to an active agency, all you need to do is search for Allied sources. I have to be honest with you. I'm having a bit of a hard time putting the Supreme Court's conclusions in the law, that because the Constitution states that the Board of Directors is here, there's no legal rights to transfer institutions from the capital without saying anything about it in the law, without saying anything about where their headquarters are in themselves, but it wouldn't need legal authority to move organizations to Reykjavík. I'm not happy that we understand it that way. What I look like is that there was one way in itself that it wasn't legally bound, but it was the methodology, the firm about it, if it were to be moved safely by an institution or by a law. Then it should be done like this in methodology, conditions that would have to be met, criteria for staff, how to care for their rights, etc. Of course, there is one way to say, "Yes, yes, Ministers may suggest something to move, but then they'll do it according to these laws, this frame. " Then many accidents could be avoided, I think. Another approach could be to sort out institutions, which would involve larger and more important institutions, that they would be moved only with the approval of the Generals, but in terms of smaller institutions or institutions, which would be of a particular nature, there could be something more free. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u152	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I'd like to ask about a new agency that's being formed that will be able to take control decisions, which is the integration of a research centre and a study centre and then part of the role of the Ministry of Education. There, institutions are united and the function changed and cast out of the Ministry. In the earlier discussions, it was said that these changes were less likely to be resolved by means of a change in the government law. I want to ask you why. A senator whether he knows anything about it, but there's an institution that almost just waits to start, the director's in charge, and he's giving up people, and I don't know what and what, but it doesn't seem that they're getting better before the change. Another, if any. A senator wanted and had time to put away the committee that discussed the rules of ethics, the coordination committee on moral standards for the administration, that commands of the administration are set away. But one of its important roles, and the reason for setting up a committee and highlighting ethical rules was just a lack of trust and credibility after a collapse in the administration. I want to ask you why. A senator whether he does not believe that at the time of the total prime minister, he will again weaken confidence rather than support it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u153	Mr. President. I can honestly admit that I'm not an expert or anything in this particular situation with a scholarship and a research agency, I've heard my associates and our members on the Senate review this and how it says. I've been amazed if it's the right thing to do. A minister has already advertised and hired the director and has taken the full course of preparation and the Agency as far as it can be done without having legal authority to do so. I think it's a weird management business. I'm amazed at how much it's done. A minister of education escapes, that he is not getting more trouble from the sources that may not be satisfied with such a march. I can't imagine that the U.S. Marshal, State Accounting, or any other group would consider this to be an example. You may need to consider page 6. the bill in that context. Is it possible that a person could find shelter for such conduct in this authority to set up specific work units and departments? I noticed why. A senator himself wondered about it here today. While such a thing may quickly seem okay, that it might be good to have an arrangement under the ministry, the natural course must not be opened up for some well - thought - out administration. Or perhaps the General doesn't want the Ministers to do just anything. They can throw jobs out of the Ministry or sweep together institutions and just say it's because it's under the department, so they can do anything. With regard to the moral standards, I think it is a serious mistake to cancel the coordination committee on moral standards. I think this will lessen your confidence. It is also unusual that at exactly the same time as the General, i.e. All prime committees and members of Congress, offer proposals to the ethic committees, where professional ethicists, appointed by external experts, are to be in fact a ruling authority as to whether or not a person has been guilty of ethics, the prime minister of this coordination committee is going to write the prime minister of whether or not he has established a code of ethics or not. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u154	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's discourse on building capitals here and there. I'm glad he doesn't want to move Reykjavík. I think it would probably be a little extra. While I'm here paying a warning about what I always feel is here at the council - why. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir simply put it so that the advance company would play a bit of war between the country and its capital. I'm feeling a little bit of a pain in it. Of course, the whole country must be built, and not just a question about it, but it must be done with the vision in mind. Hv. A senator speaks of a closer environment and a closer service, and I agree with all of that. The Council of Government proposed a close rule in its proposal, I think it's called. They suggested that it be equally important throughout the country, but they set up a local rule that meant power - this is called in English subsidiary - that decisions were always taken in close proximity to the environment. Then I think of it, it's not just organizations and stuff, it's the cause. It was suggested here -- I think it was a why. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall, who brought it here in the discussion of the transport program - that it would be very normal for the rural governments to make a decision, together in territories, for a transport plan over the scattered areas rather than for us to be here in a council hall. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] What does it say? A senator of that? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u155	With regard to the tribe of forwards mentioned earlier - if you're in a little psychological analysis of him, you can't deny that there's something wrong now, especially in this winter or this spring, that progress has begun. As we know the progress of long living, we know the advance, when it comes to carrying a variety of items to a home bridge that may be well measured in the district - or they think is a good measure in the region, but we may not always be very reasonable and do not have much perspective. We can do this in the middle of nowhere. A senator with a organizational case at airports, a completely lost case from the start, and still born. But the senator probably imagines, or has thought, that this would be well measured in certain parts of the world, I think of it. A party that has lost a lot of weight and does not seem to ride on a fat horse from a measurement of a link, such as here in the capital area, is trying to maintain it somewhere else with something like that. Of course, it's not a government government we want to see. With regard to the local rule and decision making -- it's absolutely accurate, of course, so much more is involved in these activities than just where the government is working, jobs, and activities. It is important to know where and where the money is and where it leads. Of course, I've stated in this context that I think continued to be assigned to rural society or to the region with funds, and with the power then to take the money and set their priorities, etc., to be an active cohesion, very good, and we are to do so. The programs were exactly this ideologies, and therefore sad that they were as grueled by the present government as they really are. However, when we reach transport or road transport - yes, it may well be possible to increase the amount of self - sufficiency in some of the priorities of the areas, but we also need an overall plan because this is one transport system for the whole country, something would have to be mixed together. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u156	President. Hv. A senator began his speech - I don't quite remember it - in saying that the bill was as if it had been swept up all kinds of pieces of the Council of Government, swept them all into one bill. He suggested that perhaps just take 1. Get out and go better into something else that's on the bill. I'm what? A senator wholeheartedly agreed that 1st pars. It is controversial. We all agree on that, I think, that it's preordainable how it was going to be. But she is, if I may say so, relatively simple. We understand exactly what it means. But the other articles that are in there, changing the Council and changing the administration and its arrangements, are not so clear. I think there's a lot more to look at. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the council, because these two Ministerial Committees are recommended to legalize the discussion here today. As I've said earlier today, I'm sure the Ministers and People will agree, but what comes out of them must be going into a government meeting. However, it has been pointed out here in the discussion that there may be a great difference in the nature of setting up ministers, such as ◯katick, if I may say so, or legalize them. What do you think? A senator of that?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-03-118.u157	Mr. President. I'm sure I put it this way, as if it had been swept up on different sides of the Presidency Department, because there was here a number of absolute materials of the Board of Directors: 1. Enforcement to transport organizations, 2nd pars. on definition of what should be considered important management material, Article 3. the Minister's Committee for Ministers, Section 6. That it is permitted to set up agencies or agencies under councils 7th par. how the prime minister should decide when there is a conflict between recruitment and interpretation of Presidential decision on how to divide administrative matters and 8 paragraphs. from a very different source on moral standards within the Board of Directors. This is what I call some kind of vomit. You wonder if some of these were allowed to float along there so that these would appear to be just a little more of a package than just 1. For the Ministers Committees, I believe, first of all, it evolved well, at least as I knew it. During the last term, the Ministry Committees made a big difference, and some of them were very effective, and the lady - in - law approach, such as the State and Economic Ministerial Committee. They put great power on the Ministry Committee on professional matters to try to get the wheels started and contribute to innovation and development, and much good came out of that job. The current government has not seen any reason to appoint any professional advisory committee. Is there reason to validate them different from what makes the source clear and firm if they operate? Well, in itself it may not be because I kind of don't think that any government longer would think of not having a Minister's Committee on State and Economic Affairs. The terms of the budget are due only to their nature and importance and economic issues because it is linked to the financial stability laws and the projects it contains, etc. So I have nothing against binding them up, I believe they should be, but I'm not necessarily saying that it needs to be. But nothing can ever be excluded, and maybe someday we'll get back, if we don't just have it now, so an irresponsible government that it might think of putting down these Ministerial Committees. [[The president calls.]]
