ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-28.u1	By letter, dated November 2, the president has requested this, according to the 8th stanzas of 1st. 13th par. Congress, to the Commission and Control Committee that it deals with a report on the National Reconsistencies and financial costs of the institutions and the State's Report on State responsibilities and reimbursement of the state funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-28.u2	A convergence is that a conference can last longer than a Senate conference puts it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-28.u3	The Board's Office of Directors received a request from the Ministry of Economics for the destruction of Mailboxs to 11 former employees, including Jónína S. Lárusdóttir, a former Ministry of Justice. Guðmundur H. Kjærnested, director of the management board, confirmed by email to the morning paper that neither their original mailboxes nor their copies exist. Jónína was the Ministry director in 2007◯2009. This is of utmost importance to me, for it says that Johnina's e - Jónína were destroyed when a special prosecutor investigated whether the legal approval of a minister was for the Secret Bank's currency regulations. I have to ask, "How is it possible for the administration to remove data this way without responding to it? " In view of this, I would like to encourage members of the Parliament to examine this subject, since there has been little discussion and that we can ensure that the U.S. Council agent is getting funds for the budget so that he can take an initiative on the subject. It's very serious. This is the time of collapse and its application. There is no way to know what happens at the Ministry when the Ministry Department's email chamber disappears. Therefore, I would like to challenge members of Congress to ensure that the U.S. Marshal's agent is receiving the funds he needs to carry out his duty. I also believe this case must have some business for the management and monitoring committee and I will call for some answers, because even if there are new laws, they do not seem to have been introduced yet, which is also a serious case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-28.u4	V.E.G. President. I'm here to discuss interest and insurance. The U.S. Penitentiary to raise interest by 0.25% and to carry aberrant fruit in 5.75% should not surprise anyone. In fact, prices have not changed, and this decision is in full agreement with the previous declarations and messages from the money policy committee and the Secret Bank. The fact that this is the principal control device of the Society is, in fact, not the main one, but the road ahead. The actions and decisions that we now make and the next loss of financial and financial policies throughout the budget and other decisions on other legislation have a striking impact on the government's financial affairs. Discipline is what it takes, but many have noted that there is a lack of money already. The future will be determined by improved terms following collective agreements and by the increase in economic growth that most forecasts expect to produce, among other things, on the domestic demand. The late bank has already proclaimed the expansion of money policy, which, of course, means just one thing, that the shifts will grow steadily. Of course, the development and development of capital waste emissions will have an impact and then the decision to employ instruments other than growth, such as the application of a tie. In any case, we cannot rely on a low oil price and that the continuing concentration of the crown will continue indefinitely with the need for further growth and faster rhythms than this. V.E.G. The government is still following a timeline for decommissioning insurance. But the lights flash on a familiar vicious cycle, a respectable president, that the provision and purchase power will be turned away to an insured debt, and there will be another raise at the home's debt.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-28.u5	A respectable president. I'd like to report the General Assembly since October, next week, was the General Assembly in Geneva. Among other things, they were dedicated to refugees. We discussed their issues and how we could do this in one way or another. The one here, chairman of the International Assembly of Iceland, gave a public talk. However, something more remarkable at this assembly was that in the third commission on human rights, Jónsdóttir Johnsdóttir was the author and pilot to conclude along with a South Korea senator. That conclusion came with a reason. A senator who was left with a fine and efficient spirit worked here at home as well as the Father of Ámundadóttir, who was with her in Geneva. They answered and adjusted the conclusion, so it was not only accepted in the third committee, and out of it, but it was also approved in the great area of the Geneva International Assembly. That will be, a respectable president, the first time a member of the Icelandic Parliament comes to a conclusion and accept it on a committee as well as on the great field of Geneva. This resolution by Birgitta Jónsdóttir and the South Korea senator discussed her great and great interests, which are human rights and privacy in a digital world equal to the physical world. I consider it a reason, a respectable president, to inform the council as soon as I wish again. Jónsdóttir Congratulations on this and her contribution on behalf of the International Council of Iceland at this meeting in Geneva.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-28.u6	Mr. President. I mentioned this week that at the Independence Party meeting, it was agreed to sell RUS. During the days, a report on the UruV was presented, with a report of best friends. Secretary of education. That's all that doesn't make the credibility of this report enough, I think. For example, it's not good to have confidential information about the business of VOLV leaked into competitive media, I don't think that's normal. This government has allowed its knees to go up against RUV ever since it began. She tore up the government and reassigned it to a political position that had changed in the days of the former government. It seems her goal to try to weaken this good organization that has followed us since 1930, so it is time for her to say, "Well, this institution has become so weak that it's just best for us to get rid of it and leave it to the general market. All friends of the state radio need to be on guard. In the days and last few weeks, the directors of the Kingdom Radio have presented a very ambitious vision for the people of the land. It highlights material for young and young people, services in the scattered regions, and the cultural value of the Agency, since it is a very cultural institution. This vision has been blessed with a fine welcome for the public in the country. It is, therefore, incomprehensible that governments will try to break up this great, good organization, RUSV. [[The president calls.]] I'm just saying, it's time to be ashamed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-28.u7	Mr. President. Today, one of the most important meetings in our day, a climate conference in Paris, starting later in this month. It is estimated that some 40,000 will attend. There is a second approach now in Paris, but it has been emphasized before, and it is the approach to participating in rural society, business and community organizations, not only representatives of the government, can reach a good deal of agreement. This is in my judgment a much better way for success. Sadly, the climate meeting held in Copenhagen some years ago was what has been called a diplomatic accident. But now the whole world knows we don't have a choice, we've got to reduce greenhouse effects from exhaustion if we're not going to kill ourselves in the coming decades. What also prepares for optimism now of success is that Chinese people are the highest source of CO. 2 of the world, and they have made a statement that they are going to settle down to the table of negotiations. Iceland can speak a lot at the Paris conference. The meeting will include a Norse presentation booth in which Iceland will present earth heat, land healing, climate science, and so forth. We have the highest share of renewable energy in the world. Here, there are huge opportunities for deforestation and land healing and, above all, there are vast opportunities for energy exchange in transport, where we could go over to sustainable energy sources and save by means of emissions and, of course, a very large amount of currency.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-28.u8	A respectable president. At lunchtime, the British government introduced a bill, not just political explosives, but basic human rights of the British. According to this new bill presented by Minister May May, network companies will require for one year all the information on the websites visited by British people and that police and security agencies can call on this information at any time. In addition to the pressure of Britain's government on communication programs, such as Whatapp, it is possible to spy on the communication between individuals through these programs. The British government is expected to open up one of the greatest personality lights known to Western countries. I'm being corrected if I'm wrong. The argument behind this bill is that it is essential for terrorists, pedophiles, and so on. By examining the use of the Internet by suspected persons, there is an increased possibility of having hands in their hair. Opponents, however, point out that there are already rich sources of character in the United Kingdom and that experience has shown that such information is not safe for Internet companies at all. On the contrary, hackers have been able to cover personal information on Internet sites and have even abused them for good. Now I'm not going to interfere specifically with British politics, but this bill makes you wonder where these issues are heading in an international context. A stór brother goes further and further, and there is good reason for us to be careful in this regard. We do not want each of our steps recorded and to be espionaged in all our activities. We do not want such a community, and hopefully we will not follow the example of the British. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-28.u9	Mr. President. I think the situation of refugees in many parts of the world must confront all of us. Now, we are close to helping a family that has recently been in the news, last day, i.e. The Syriac family. Now the sisters have begun to attend school, and the family is faced with being sent back to Greece, where they did not really have the option to get asylum because the people had otherwise been arrested. These people don't want to be in Greece, because we know that it's not a good situation and it's not a good option when we can offer a much better community here in Iceland. So I've asked the head of the General and Education Committee for a meeting and we'll discuss the situation. Resentment can be granted to family members, for example, on the basis of humanitarian reasons. At least we need to discuss that matter. It is also desirable that we receive protection from children, that we get UNICEF to us and others who come to help children, because I'm particularly worried about them, and I believe that we share many of them. I think we can do much more than we can do now. The media has suggested how the family has worked hard to adapt to and try to learn the language, and the brief time that the sisters have been in preschool, they have done well, they have learned a few words in Icelandic language, so it is clear that the family is willing to work hard to be here. Now it is up to us, the Icelandic government, to successfully resolve family affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-28.u10	Mr. President. I am one of four general members of the United Nations General Assembly during the days, and we were there to learn about the great work being accomplished by the United Nations. We received a fine presentation of world goals, but as the United Nations, 193 countries, all of us have achieved a global objective of sustainable development. The world's goals are 17. They are large and wide, but with each of them there are several subsections that explain them even more. I'd like to list the global objectives of sustainable development. These are: No poverty, no hunger, good health, education for all, gender equalities, clean water and toilet conditions, sustainable energy, good employment and economic growth, innovation and development, elevating equations, sustainable cities and communities, responsible consumption, planetary protection, life underneath water, land life, peace and justice and international cooperation. These are truly worthwhile goals. I say, Mr. President, I think it's almost miraculous that 193 countries have met for these remarkable goals. Today, national standards are being developed to follow in order to assess how they will achieve these goals until 2030. Of course, the criteria will all be in these three areas of sustainable development, i.e. to assess the economic, social, and environmental effects of each objective. We have work to do. I find it very exciting, and I look forward to handling it with the governments to reach out for these goals.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-28.u11	V.E.G. President. The decision from Iceland's Office this morning to raise the Aggression to 5.75% is a serious one. This is the third time the bank is rising in a short period of time, and somehow it is as if it were waiting for inflation that's going to be waited on. So they throw one thing at the fire to try to fuel the inflation by that decision, just as they did in spring when they created an unforeseeable disaster. The point is, however, that there is no need and no assurance and no apparent sign of inflation in the months that will occur, since we are still in fortification because of the strength of a penny. For example, it would remember before Christmas if a suit in Iceland dropped by about 51⁄2-10%, as the crown scholarship gives every reason to believe, and this could therefore work well into the inflation readings that are here. Inflation is now 1.8% per year. If we remove an apartment increase, it's almost zero. Economic growth is 4.6% and men are just scared because of it. In Ireland, economic growth is at present 6%. Inflation is below zero or at zero. In what direction do Irish people live? 0.025% or something like that. I just don't understand how men talk about inflation here, including the bank manager, who says, "She's still coming, though she's not here, and on the way, they're still inviting foreign people to a waxy party. Discounters are about to be sold in January to 200 percent and something billion, but what has happened in the past few months? It's building up other snowbolts. Actually, it's just scrapping now, 40 billion, but it keeps growing. Are we going to collect another snow-handed? When will the 40 billion and more follow - ups be opened? It's a completely intolerable decision, absolutely.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-28.u12	V.E.G. President. We're probably most of us hit by Cast Light last night, where two women with sexual abuse were dealt with. National research shows that disabled women are more likely to suffer violence than other women, and new EU research shows that the same is true in this country. You see, there is a great knowledge of the violence inflicted on disabled women, and we as legislators must take it into account in our work. In this context, I would like to point to a 2013 Ministry report and a new report, the violence against disabled women, and their availability for support. An Annex to the report provides suggestions for action, including government policies. I'd like to address a few of these suggestions: Increased funding for specialized support, in which disabled women often find it difficult to take advantage of the support afforded by sedentary victims of violence. Especially is this true of disabled women living in remote areas. Maybe it's something like that. A legal committee should be considered. Increasing education. Governments must ensure sexual education for those who are disabled in school. New laws or better older legislation are needed in order to facilitate disabled women involved in lawsuits, to promote the knowledge of lawyers, police, and judges in the field of disability and violence against disabled women. All of this is for the highest. Secretary of education and what. A top-of-the-art Board of Education. More important, it is important to ensure that legislation against discrimination takes more seriously to ensure that the right of disabled women is right. Hv. All council members. There are many things to be added in this category, and it is for us to make sure that it will be done. There is plenty of academic material to guide us in that work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-28.u13	V.E.G. President. Today, a generation of consumers are growing up with far more environmental discussions. This is a new generation that links quality to sustainability and makes rich demands in this area. Enterprises are increasingly experiencing increased demand for clean environment and traceability. So it is a joy to see that the environmental day of employment, held for the first time on autumn days, was very successful. There were over 200 persons from commercial, political, and administrative systems and discussed the sustainable use of resources and the interaction of the environment and the individual sector. Despite the fact that members of the organization often discuss matters where interest may not always go together, however, there is much harmony among them when it comes to environmental issues. Then, since 2013, the institutions of the State have been working on environmental management and eco-friendly purchases. The main results of an exploratory survey carried out in March last through an eco-efficiency group and a green state management agency, appointed by Environment and Resource Minister, are that in general what kind of environmental work is increasing. The Agency has set up environmental policies and goals, as well as those that include waste to a greater extent than ever before. This has resulted in a large increase in transport contracts. In order to respond to the wishes of directors for increased education and simple tools in order to work on eco-friendly businesses, the project Green Steps of State Management was implemented. Already, 23 organizations have enrolled in it, and it is a joy to see that 78% of the institutions already know about the project, and 56% of them claim they intend to participate. At that time, management said that there have been many positive impacts of environmental work, such as increasing the staff's activities, saving money, transport contracts, and increased movement and improvement in the image of the Agency. These are all part of the design of long-term thinking and overall vision of the use of our resources and provide resources in as good or as better conditions for future generations. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-28.u14	A respectable president. It was of interest to hear the Eyth of Arnaldur, the Chairman of the Assessment Committee, who has a lot of experience with a business known, cross the radio this morning that there was not a lot to be spent on the subject itself, that the committee did not believe that there was anything unusual to protect the chemical production. I draw it here because, of course, it is very important to have confirmation that the topic at The Kingdom Hall is produced in a practical and natural way. However, it may well be that there has been a mistake at the founding of the economic society, building a Penitentiary or making decisions on some technical investments, which are the decisions made by the Government Management Board on the responsibility of the General Assembly and the Fund. And it is important that the normal, healthy structure, not being costed by the Commission's assessment, is not put to death for saving overinvestment of the distribution system in the program. Of course, the European Commission must take responsibility for decisions made by the educational authorities and the government of the United States, ensuring that a more practical and reasonable program of Kingdom News is being conducted for all the people. It is also important for democracy that the promises of the Ministry of Education in this matter be fulfilled but that the efforts of the chairman of a financial committee to extort the media by presenting the proposals of the Minister of Education will not be maintained by other members of this hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-28.u15	A respectable president. Many have found it difficult to find criticism in a recent report on the State Radio, a report that gave complete acceptance to three highly educated individuals with experience, the report was fully satisfied. [[Up front.]] Criticism, which has established the report, may well have included one of the members of the committee as a cellist. What are we supposed to be talking about here? Is it not what constitutes the most important role of the Kingdom News, how it is accomplished, and how best to achieve it? Is it not, though, that we are talking about the tax money and how are we going to spend it in public? Which side are we going to protect the money on? In continued development of Our Kingdom News, just to protect them organization, or on the other side of the Basis of the Health Organization? I think it's the discussion we're supposed to take, how we're going to use public funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-28.u16	A respectable president. Sometimes it is said that the world is shrinking. I don't agree with that. I mean, the world is getting bigger. He grows rapidly and grows much, and that is a cause of great joy. What is happening in this 21st century is having happy developments that I know have occurred in human history and that we are all becoming connected with, nations, and people all over the world. This means that we are more inclined to get to know people outside the cliffs and tend to move abroad. On the other hand, when we move from country to country, we are often curious about not being welcome. We are not welcome because in the land we moved to, there is a law that is directly designed to keep people away from it. We live in such laws on the land. There's a lot of difference between the experience of the general Icelanders on import law or foreign law in Iceland and what it is. People even think that there is something called a common residence permit, but it does not exist. They always think that if people come here, pay taxes, work, and avoid crime, and the like, the people can be here. That's not the case unless it comes from the EEA. The only easy way to move to Iceland is to be from the EEA, otherwise it's hard. Whether we are talking about refugees or refugees or just people who know someone or want to learn the language is regardless of what we are talking about. There are people who move here to learn Icelandic, to adapt to Icelandic society because they find our country to be beautiful and fun and our people to be fun. But it can't be here. Why? Because only, most respectable president. Because. That's the law we live in today. I would like to encourage the high Council and the general public to discuss the alien law with a much more open mind than we do now, and not by some charity, but by believing that a growing world is fundamentally a positive development that we should promote.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-28.u17	A respectable president. I would like to welcome national cross-cutting consultations to improve the cooperation and practice in matters related to violence and its consequences in the community. The work began formally with a special meeting last week. Cooperation is based on a declaration signed by the social and housing minister, education and cultural minister and local secretary of state last December. In it the Ministers resolve to work together against violence in Icelandic society and its destructive influence, to expand education and prevention work on violence, to improve cooperation, and to work together in reducing violence, and to promote cooperation with violent research. The national conversation is intended to include social services, child welfare, educational and health systems, police and prosecution. The declarations show that cooperation will focus on acts of violence against children, violence in close relationships, sexual, mental, and physical violence, and violence against disabled people and other vulnerable groups. Then, too, the work takes on a hateful speech that encourages violence or another criminal behavior that is insensitive or threatening to individuals or groups. In recent years, we have certainly continued in our discussion of violence or since not discussing it, have no word for it, and even believe that violence never takes place in our neighborhood, discussing both the most unlikely manifestations in the media and at the kitchen table at home. The fact is, though, that we still have much to do with our work against violence, as shown by Castlight's discussion of this week and the speech of both. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Riverd's Árnadóttir earlier. As soon as I welcome the discussion that has begun, I think it is very important that the lawgiver monitors the progress of the work and learns about possible slants on the legislation that may appear along with targeted work on a broad basis against violence. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-28.u18	A respectable president. Hv. The Economic and Business Committee has received a hint that the bill on this topic needs to be slightly changed, but a more substantial part of the Economic and Business Committee has been proposed. This is an additional change leading to an already existing change proposal, and beyond that, there is a small correction on the terms of the adjustment proposal to the majority of the Economic and Business Committee. On this occasion, I'm going to request that the case go to hell. The Economic and Business Committee between the 2nd and 3rd. to receive special coverage there. The proposed changes will be submitted later in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-28.u19	A respectable president. The solution to the problems of the fragmented financial institutions creates for the Icelandic economy is one of the most important projects of our time. There's one bullet in the gun, the bank manager correctly said, and the reason there's a gun in the gun is that the gun was loaded in the time of the former government when the Independence Party was opposed, and the forward party sat by, when we created the contract right now being used. Because there's only one bullet in the gun, it's extremely important to make good use of it. There is concern that no overall plan has been published, all presumptions are vague, the covert dress has no precedent in Icelandic history. Also, a few minutes ago, we received a word of caution from Invenge, pointing out that there is a misinformation of the government on the extent of its stability. At least 500 billion people are waiting to enter a foreign currency from the country, which will have a negative impact on the long - term payment of the population. [[The president calls.]] All these factors cause us to take much uncertainty, and the government has failed to fulfill its basic obligation to establish agreement on this matter or to explain its basis. That is why the public, pension funds, and Icelandic companies are not going to get out of their heads. Therefore, it is not possible to accept the technical changes that will be agreed on here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-28.u20	Mr. President. During our discussion here, we made some comments on how this case has developed since spring. Conspiracy with government opposition has been little or nothing. The Syndicate Committee on Emissions was called together at the end of the case. Since the matter has been presented in a very subtle way, various numbers are organized to make the stability project equivalent to a tax, but it also shows that although the figures play the key role in the presentation, they are not important to the government. I was hoping that this case could have been more beneficial in a much better position of government and government, and the clear desire of the government stand in our midst showed that it was willing to cooperate. There are still some questions about the continuation of the case, e.g. In terms of relief from the public, how we will see the long - term fulfillment of the investment needs of the pension fund. Several aspects of this subject are being appealed to the future, so I will sit by the side of this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-28.u21	A respectable president. It's a very technical bill and the cluster that we now vote for, but it's a challenge to make old banks, the fallen banks, better able to complete short-term contracts. We support this bill. I find that to be understandable. The problem is enormous and vast. It is becoming clear that there are a number of laws to make this possible. We hope in a bright future that after this legislation, there will be agreements for the worn-outs of the old settlements on the basis of the labour agreements that have been introduced and established by Iceland's Secret Bank. We view these treaties as a solution to this great problem, and we think that it is the result of many years of work, many politicians, officials, and others from collapse. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-28.u22	President. There's some sort of abuse of how these things are being handled in the process as around Icesave. I feel like we're going blinding into these operations, mainly because the government hasn't kept the general consultation that was spoken of when this road began a long time ago. I think it's shocking. I would have wanted access to data in order to be more informed. That hasn't been the case. It has been called upon to receive comparable access to institutions and to be located around the Icesave folder, but it has not been responded, and I find it shocking. This is the big event and the legal thing that almost no man in the council understands it, and I don't like it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-28.u23	A respectable president. The matter we're here to vote on turns toward increasing the risk of dealing with the housers to complete a contract and receiving confirmation for the state of the country over the next weeks and months. This is in harmony with what was added in the summer. The government immediately declared itself ready to pay for their contracts. In discussing the matter, there have been other issues, but the contents of this matter are directly related. I'm not going to make any comments. Each one of them is acting in his own fashion as he likes it best. But I'm going to make a note that it seems surprising to many how the process has been over the past few weeks, but it was over with the bill adopted in June, i.e. If it were approved to be a stable proposal with an exception it would be primarily the National Bank, which has turned up a 25 - page report on that matter, and then the minister of finance and economics after a presentation for the Economic and Business Committee to decide without the special arrival of the council. [[The president calls.]] It was agreed here with all paid votes if I remember correctly, at least there was no one who -- well, there's actually one who shakes his head, but there was no comment on this treatment. We're just following her right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-28.u24	V.E.G. President. It's true that I shook my head, like the highest. Secretary of finance said, for it must be true. I've been very supportive, and I've still supported the general taxation of the stretchers, and I voted with a bill in spring. This is clear and effective. On the other hand, I paid a vote against a bill on an indiscriminate bypass with broad tax reserves in agreement with the demands. This bill that we now have at a vote is of the same nature, and the situation that we are living in today's mind was predictable in spring. I'm going to vote against this bill and this is why I'm here. But I've previously made my stand on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-28.u25	A respectable president. It's true what's been said here. It's important. This enables us to deal with the older bank population, with the goal of defending the standard of living here, that it is a fundamental prerogative. Hv. paritaprevir In the meantime, Páll Árnason mentioned that there was only one bullet in the gun, and this relates to March 12th, which is the question: Where would men point it? Hv. paritaprevir Shortly after March 12, Árnason wrote on his Web site, which he reviewed, with the permission of a president: The only way in this subject would be to agree that in the Member State discussion, the European money bank would provide a allowance to finance the flow as early as possible at the beginning or during a few years, by reimbursement over a longer period of time. Such a solution would likely cause a dollar to drop less in the past and pay for the quick return of the price. You see, they put a bullet in the gun, but the legislation that was adopted here and under the leading government of the forwarding group and the independence party was the gun on the basis of the demands. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-28.u26	V.E.G. President. I'm sorry to have to say about the Supreme Worker. Governments in this case now in these last meters, such as having the committee deliver such a significant change form, that these measures have led to the breaking of the large and large reconciliation achieved in June on this issue. Now, further adjustments are being made. At least they didn't know that. not human in memory a few minutes ago. Actually, I insist that the committee discuss the report that the Invenge group sent to all members of Congress just before, as well as the questions raised in the Senate Hall yesterday at 2nd. and was not answered by the majority of the committees, either president or spokesman. Then it must be our unscrupulous demand, private senators who cannot sit on the committee and discuss this, that the committee works properly and does so in committees such as answering this with the Inveffence Aluminium. [[The president calls.]] I'll let me remind you of the 30th. Congress on such a big and important matter that I think the committee should check too.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-28.u27	Mr. President. We feel that it is too much in the determined effort of the Government of Sigmundur, Gunnlaugsson Gunollson, to negotiate with foreign claimors, another name of vulture funds, and to let them go first and one, at least for now, out of currency capitals with significant discounts, compared to paying taxes, also to cancel tax deduction taxes on debts they may issue on this matter. The more difficult it is to stir Icelandic tax rights in these areas, the greater the challenge to the demands. Some people put forth extra effort to meet their wishes, some of them, so we will vote against this law.
