ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u1	A respectable president. I lived in Denmark, and I know firsthand that it did not cost anything. In fact, the discussion there was that if a service is strictly free of charge, it may be helpful for a person to recognize the cost of the ministry. There was a point of view, but I won't go into it here. Regarding the land hospital, the housing situation is out of control. We are disappointed that we are not going to succeed in setting a plan. No one's about to build the Land Hospital tomorrow, but I find that the rest remains unclear, even though it's a good thing that people put some money in designing the treatment core. It's important. We are talking about the only 50 billion who are going to the Land Hospital next year, an enormous amount of money. I am well pleased with the decision of the greater part to take 30 million to do business at the Land Hospital. I think it's necessary. I imagine it's hard for the Ministers who are not overcrowded to have full perspective on the operation of the Land Hospital. Actually, I think men are doing amazing things for little money. However, it must always be our job to try to see if somewhere you can arrange without getting the most out of the service and trying to get the money. I hope something comes out of it. I'm worried about the housing, we're not saying that after five years we'll see the treatment core and that in 10 years, something else will have happened. Was there any such a plan going on, or how it looked from the point of view? A senator? Was there no plan left? How does it look?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u2	V.E.G. President. No, it continued in its course as far as I can remember. It is only now that the critical voices are being built, I will not get involved in that discussion, but in less time the health minister changed nothing about this channel. For this business, I feel that everything is important to men. Do they plan to find ways to spread and market? I am not convinced that such things do not wake up in the same way that men were shocked at the highest point. A health minister spoke of a new hospital hotel in the Watermelon, that a committee needed to be set to see if it was worth any money from the State. That's what I'm putting on a lot of question marks. In the early part of the 1990's, the financial awareness of the health system prevented people from looking for unnecessary service. There may be some people who do, but never do remember sitting in breakfast anywhere, with a group of people who said, "What are you going to do today, should you go out and have your ears, nose or knees looked at? They do so, not simply to play with themselves, but because their knees are hurting, they hear badly, or they have problems with their eyesight. Then you get a doctor, and that's the rule. There are some exceptions from this rule, but they are not in the sense that Dan's people have seen a reason to destroy their good system because of them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u3	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A candidate for a fine talk, considering many things. The most interesting thing to me in his speech was that he spoke of the magnitude of the perplexity of the discussion. A minister came to the area to talk about the lawsuit we need to know more about. I wondered, especially because of what. A senator came into contact with the decisions made by members of Congress: Is that an arrangement that we could restore? The budget's changing, and I know why. A senator has discussed how we speak about the budget in this Assembly Hall. That discussion is much more political than it was. Today, there are political issues that can be resolved through the budget. Is it not, then, a good way to focus attention on specific parts of the budget and to try to have the minister of the legal group present that day? So, then, could we not try to divide the budget for as many days as a number of ministers are so that it is possible to get even a better discussion of the budget and financial answers from the advisers right away? It would be possible to prepare more specifically for each budget and compromise. I think it would change the way we deal with these matters, because now we're taking this unorganizedly, but I think there's a good reason to discuss the budget. I think it was crucial to try to get the members of the seminars into the chamber to answer us.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u4	V.E.G. President. I just agree with what. Senator. I think that would be very good. But it is not that we are about 1st. Money is tried to make the arrangement for the ministers to be in? Then there is the thought that after a matter has been passed by a minister, it will go to the council committee and then its custody will be taken to account for the matter. I don't feel like this part is supposed to be this way. Of course, a financial committee is to take responsibility for the case and the relevant committee at the council, but I agree with that. A senator said that it would be most desirable for the Ministers to attend, as revealed there. The discussion of the budget, the short - term discussion that covers one year, also has to do with future goals, as shown in the topic on Kingdom News, for example. Happily, the discussion will be more political than ever, for the politics talk about the organization of our society. It's politics. Sometimes I've felt, and I've been afraid that we're going to be too withdrawn, that it's become a professional talk. That men think that by putting things into the Ministry where people know very little about what is going on, as will happen according to the horror of the official financial bill that lies before the council and that has run away from the bands of the World Bank with all kinds of restrictions and fences that will be placed on democratic authority - I think that's very bad. There's another trend that's in the system, it's making decision committees, I took part in doing it. It's this kind of burden on a lot of people. [[The president calls.]] But everywhere, it goes on one thing, trying to get the political responsibility somehow. [[The president calls.]] We're here to take this discussion. She's political in nature and that's good,
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u5	A respectable president. It is very important that we consider the nature of financial laws. A senator pointed out that ministers were only present at 1st. Although most senators have not been able to go through the budget until 2nd. 1st. So it always gets a little superficial. So I don't fully understand the thought behind it, especially because I think the discussion will be much clearer and much more specific and therefore shorter if a minister is present on the 2nd. I think there's something that we need to consider for the coming year, especially in view of the fact that public finances will probably completely support the way we are discussing financial matters. I also find it a little strange that we're throwing all our responsibility and work loads on the subject. Chairman of the budget board. I don't really think it's quite fair and it's not fair for one person to have such a broad perspective over all the lawsuits, all the changes. There is, of course, an enormous amount of responsibility. I would normally, in view of the relief of the workload by a financial committee, that the Ministers would adopt and be here in the Senate and answer our questions, even if only a fraction of a day. It should also be tried to devote the December work to the head of the budget and to skip committee meetings as much as possible. We should rather have them in early January, it is not as if we necessarily need a six - week holiday.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u6	V.E.G. President. I kind of agree with what. Senator. I think it would be beneficial for the arrival of the Ministers to remain loyal to the discussion in order to shed light on it. True, it is the legal committee responsible after the matter comes to the council, and we should not be shy about handling changes and suggestions for changing the law. When we bring the matter to the council, we open the financial laws to society. The financial bill will be publicized, we'll be under pressure, tips, and it's not surprising that the budget will change accordingly. There are some things that we overlooked or that we wanted to do better after a general social discussion. I agree with what. Senator, it is very important for ministers to attend the discussion. When they are looking for their presence, I feel that they do. The minimum requirement for us to participate in the discussion can be made that we show consideration and courtesy for one another, and it means signing as well as for others as the examples prove this evening.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u7	Mr. President. I'm gonna go get a hit on a big part of the committee party. I'm gonna start with the cover because we're always talking about paying off debt. Thus, it is noteworthy that the majority of the cases have chosen to make the committee opinion that there has been an increase in income, but there is some country to begin subsidies. I find that interesting in view of the fact that the government alone has spoken of it and its proponents. Only below the page are the changes in age of the nation that require increased expenses in aging service. I had a conversation with what? It appears that there was no complete vision. Admittedly, the number of older citizens lies ahead. We need to take good care of it and build it up. We must develop some vision, some strategy, and make it possible to carry out. Otherwise, we face the challenge of being among our older people in matters that are not suitable and otherwise much more expensive. Then I'm going to the New World Hospital. Me and what. The vice president of the legal committee discussed the Hospital and contributions to him and to others around him. He claimed that what I said was wrong with me, but I'm going to read from a story in the morning edition of December 1, which bears the headline of an iron hospital. It says, by permission of the president: According to a report by the OECD government, less than 0.1% of GDP has been spent in investments in the interiors of health care services, and to the very lowest position in the OECD countries. There is little or no evidence that today changes in this development or government donations are expected to be made to the party. Such concerns as health care and medical care are a source of immediate review. So it's a book, it's not some fabrication or falsehood. Later, in the opinion of the committee, this is a note. On page 18. Eleven is over the pension debt. It shows that the impact of Pension bonds has not been evaluated because of the increase in the pay of government officials. We saw the teacher's agreements that appeared between discussions at 1.2 billion dollars. and I'm sure they'll be added to this further. Once we've been critical that the bill is not properly prepared, it's in the leading section that there's an amazing amount of doubt in this section. I'm most concerned that the government is about to sell our gold mines, our Lands Bank and some big estates, like the highest power. Secretary of finance has talked about doing things to pay off debts. Although it does not seem to agree on that, at least According to the decrees of the divisions of the judges in their councils, this is suggested. The next thing I'm going to stop is a change form of government and more of the legal committees have done and are carried out at Generality. I'm very much into the fact that the General Assembly lives because I feel that it is practical for the future to build a home and put the work under one roof instead of renting all over many houses that are costly and uncomfortable and unfortunate, but I can't agree on, rather than accept conditions set out on the last financial bill, 100 years of old The Guðjón of Samúelsson, who were not even thinking about the reality of the day, natural not, they were made for long and big men, and probably intended to build sooner and more than to say in any other place. I encourage the president who sits on the President's chair to see that this condition is taken out. I think a lot of people have missed that this is not a good thing to do, but people may agree that it should be built. The next class is the 100th anniversary of women's vote. It suggests 4 million. K. a contribution to the 100th anniversary of the Women's Amendment Court... and to the financial resources of Iceland's Communion Fund. I have doubts about it, and I ask: Is it in harmony with the fund, or with his rules, or what the prime committee laid up to do? There's probably four million left. This is something we need to remember to ask questions about conversation at the council, i.e. ... ona budget. We've talked a lot about the museum crew. I'm sorry to see a museum crew making money back into a budget board. It's very peculiar to split 200 up. K. ... butnot59million. K. You don't quite understand why the procedure is like that. I've been worried about the tourist market, which is the closest thing I'm going to be doing, so I've been worried about the funds. We have repeatedly made comments to our contributions, believing that they are too small. Then, of course, you can wonder if the tourism service is becoming too debty, whether it will be able to adapt to gang swings, in which a huge structure has taken place in a very short period of time. I'm worried that this may be a fallback, because somehow you feel that everything is about to invest a lot that can fall apart if something is drawn together in the next article for a short time. Come on, I think, and I want to talk about the county. The government has not lived up to plans that would bring together the administrative body, i.e. transport to them. They've been extremely few. The State Department is, in effect, the only government service that's been assigned. Other administrative institutions have not done that. I know that it has only been sought and requested a list of possible tasks and some Ministry has simply not returned anything. It is a concern if they allow themselves not to give in to the Minister of the State of State the ideas of projects that could go to the county and even raise the economy at some point. At least the contracts are not being signed. Then I'd like to talk about the financial resources of rural society and the contract made with my rural society on the issues of disabled people, whom I'm very happy to reach, but we need to discuss them in a financial committee between discussions. However, I am concerned that the user - controlled personal assistance still sits unsettled in a garden. For some reason, the government has decided not to follow up on the experiment project set out and to make sure that this particular service exists, that people can have this choice. True, it is like most other expensive things, but it is not to be involved. Of course, this is about human rights, and a decision must be made whether this is to be realized or whether the government simply does not trust to follow through on this. A respectable president. Time is so quick to run away from you. [[The president calls.]] I've had a lot of things planned here very fast, but I may have more to talk about. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u8	A respectable president. I thank you for this passage by the dog. A senator always needs to try to look more closely at what is being discussed in these financial matters. However, I noticed that she did not mention the prison case, but more than a part of the General suggests that we increase money to prison, especially at 45 million. If I recall, there are some 30 million who are going to survive the expense of moving into a new home on the Seltananes. Now it is a matter of growth that much of the buildings used under Iceland's concentration camps are ruined, that's all you can say. The work schedule, or where the bars of Little Lague can practice the work of migratorys. He is hardly well - oiled, and there is no evidence that any special arrangements are being made to meet them. It is a donation, but it seems to focus on the control and setting of the prison, but it may not run to the prisoners themselves. The most serious issue in this is that prisoners do not get sufficient correction on the terms of the guards at this time. I'd like to ask you what. A senator will know if she knows anything else that is coming into this category other than this 45 million extra, since there is about 80 million to do well with this party at the highest rate. Minister of state.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u9	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. The reason I didn't talk about prison now is because I've taken it up. I've resolved to go to the budget bill and not be repeating myself much. As it turned out, this morning a global and educational committee was meeting on the full penalty committee, i.e. Interior Minister's bill of full penalties, and there we received the chairman of the Advisor to our meeting, which was extremely interesting. I agree with what. A senator says we've already met with the head of the prison at Little Houn and had all sorts of visitors who have come to these matters. Then we've heard from the prison chief Páll Winkel, who said that the situation, the funds, and other things are by no means sufficient, and he is losing trained staff and says, as we can imagine, that such manna is not picked up from the street. We know that the women'prison has been shut down, and the situation has gradually been shut down. It's not normal in such a small community as ours that there are 500 people waiting to decommission, this is 155. Besides, I'm also concerned that the operation at Hólmsheki is not guaranteed in the budget of the coming year. I believe that this is not expected as necessary. When you start to study these subjects more, you can see that there are a lot of things that we may not consider on a daily basis. But I agree with what. A senator in that correction is not only good for prisoners, it is good for society, and it is naturally much less expensive, and we are required to care for them much more. There is really no question about today except to a very small degree about study.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u10	A respectable president. I appreciate that answer. It's not done well enough in the important business of prisoners and people of freedom. I just agree with what. A senator that, in the long run, when we do not have institutions to welcome these people, is much better than in return. Now I know that for the sake of filming in Holland, the prisons are almost easy after the drug criminal policy has been changed and more correction has occurred. There seems to be a market in the Netherlands and for Dutch prisons to receive prisoners from other places, I remind you of Denmark or Germany. Then you have to wonder if it's your future, that we're going to send our prisoners out instead of spending 500 days of people's lives waiting to get into prison. That's not an option for humans. People should not be judged to be punished if the custody of punishment is not possible and cannot be received. I think we need to revise our thinking behind prison. It is an extremely old - fashioned institution designed for a whole new society, where being excluded from shame and frequent tortures. Isolates are a natural form of torture. To ensure the prison operation of Little Lague, we're evaluated for the need for 50 million, simply to secure a job position, because there's no backup. We're talking about if you get sick, you don't replace someone. It's very serious to me, and I don't see anything in these budgets that'll make sure they meet them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u11	Mr. President. I agree with the senator, although I am not sure that I would want to send a prisoner out instead of letting them wait, of course, because they have left their families. It may be what we've been worried about, that if we don't get additional donations in the seminary now, it can mean that we end up in Akureyri, and even Clubousgia too. I think it's a very serious matter, if that happens. There is no increase in space at that time, and the art increases, and there is much more narrowing. They certainly need institutions, or rather, additional services, social services, psychological care, and other things to assist prisoners. There is a need to ensure that treatment schedules are made when they come in to support them, to support them, to support them, to support them back into life, and that must be done immediately. I've read what comes from prison guards and their chairman whom I am interviewing here, and it was also true that prison guards often do much more than they ought to. They do jobs that they cannot do and that are not even educated but that are by their understanding alone. I also agree that this cut means that prisoners do not receive proper service. They don't get to stay out because there's nobody on duty. If something comes up and they're out, then everybody has to go in, etc. There are some things that can't be done that can't just happen to those who are in prison. It's a security issue, too. This is a prisoner's safety and this is a prison guard's security.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u12	A respectable president. Hv. A senator discussed reevaluation of the transfers of disabled people, a report that has come out, and the contract. It's a pleasure and a good thing it's in port. We know, as part of a budget board, that they were heavily affected by all the communities in the country. But like a dog. A senator came in on them seems to have something to do with the NPA contracts, the user-controlled personal help, and that's a concern. The data I have read about this assignment - we hear it's an expensive service, that cost extras were high. A person who receives this help - and many people in society are out to work or to study or to do things that would be impossible for someone else. I don't know if there's a full analysis, whether this is gonna be a full-scale education committee or if it's a bit of a backdrop. The welfare committee. But I feel like there's a lack of analysis of what's in there. Parents and caregivers do not have to care for someone in need of service. Are there fewer hospitals? Is it relevant to return his taxes to the community because he has a job? Some form of service would require such individuals to receive, much service, even in districts and other services. I have doubts. I wondered if it's been looked into enough into the basement.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u13	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. I agree that it certainly is an expensive resource. Still, it is up to us to make choices. And the fact that people can study or do such things - we know that the viceal senator Björður has enjoyed this privilege of service, which makes it possible for him and others in such disability to share in life, an opportunity to have a sense of being a useful member of society instead of being stuck somewhere at home, because support is inadequate. It forgets so many times, when they're talking about, I think, these things, that they're healthy people, i.e. in thought, but they may just not be able to take care of themselves altogether, get around the place, etc. And like a cot. One senator says: Enjoying a social service, working, turning taxes and duty into society, making everyone rich, and that's what we want to do. It was natural to revise the agreement as we know, and it is a preliminary report on it. There seems to be some doubt about making this happen. It is known to me, that it is so costly. But I agree with the senator that another secondary cost has to be considered - fewer hospitals, parents can get into the job market because they are not committed to their disabled person, etc.; I think such a survey needs to be performed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u14	A respectable president. When our rural communities came to our financial committee, we talked about a switch in income. Incontroverts disagree with their share or feel that they are to receive more of the government's income. In part, they point out, some of them, that they feel unjust in paying capital taxes to the State. Some required a remuneration tax reimbursement and products and services because they are unable to use tax taxes, to get additional share in tax stores, such as insurance fees, hosting fees, and traffic fees. That's all we've heard because the cars drive in the countryside, and the streets and so on. Then, according to the firm's comments, insurance costs do not decline, since local companies pay insurance. And as with the fiscal tax, the government has to pay a capital tax but only in its own pocket. They also want to get involved in income from capital tax, i.e. where individuals are paying income taxes. They may be accepting community service, but they do not pay an answer. I think the local community's demands are valid. I think it's time to look at this. The wealth is straightening out the cow, but it's hard in many societies. Besides that, they have even been paying with certain privileges that the State is responsible for, such as the nursing staff. What does it say? A senator on this?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u15	Mr. President. I can agree with that, and we can see that now that government interests are gradually improving, although the underlying business has not been stable, some rural communities may feel worse. That was one of the things we heard now. This is quite clear - based on the work being done to rural society, and the willingness to increase their numbers, and it has been observed by the European Union of Iceland - that very many projects are in so - called gray areas, and their gray art is getting longer. We are stifling rules that may not always come with financial support, even if cost is to be obtained. I've been feeling that for a very long time, a member of the country's government, the capital tax of individuals should flow into the countryside. Like what? A senator points out that people are accepting service but are not paying an answer. I think it's very sad, and it's increased - and it's been natural to fail when numbers were gone completely sky high - that there are too many people going to pay interest taxes but not paying to the rural society. The same is true of other tax institutions that we need to examine.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u16	Mr. President. I'd like to start by making the most of it. A president by saying that I believe he was in charge of a meeting here irreprehensible. Although I may feel a little sleepy, at some point in the night, it is good for him to have this board flash in his eyes when he directs his unruly council. But I want to make him happy too. I believe the night meeting we've had here was a well-deserved honour to the council. These chapters have been a flashy discussion. There are two more things I'm going to give special commendation because I'm in such a positive mood, apart from the joy I'm happy to see it. paritaprevir In Höskuldur of Þórhallsson's son, I believe the members of the board were involved here tonight in the discussions of their grammatical strength and that it improved the discussion. I believe it still applies as a matter of course. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson made the most unforgettable speech of the week last night that there were still talks that improved the discussion and produced new arguments. I was happy with it, and it seemed like a man's taste at the top of my life. The minister of education came here for the discussion, and he sat under the council and participated in it with talks and explanations on his part. I also want to say that I thought it was a problem. A member of Parliament and a member of the Independence Party, the Ragnheiður of Ríkharðsdóttir's daughter, are permissive and good even if I were, of course, in principle, disagreeing with her. I don't have much experience with weapons business. paritaprevir Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir. She's a good boy, and I don't usually risk myself inside her too tight radius, and I admit I didn't try to come here to answer. A senator. But from the distance that the public speaker gives me, I still want to give her a few words. Naturally, she said, the religion of the core independence policy, that she wanted to see more control in the financial bill we're discussing here. I don't blame her. What is most significant is that in spite of the great goodness that prevails, this government will bring in almost no rest at all for the third year. I don't call that what's left over, even if there's 10 billion left over. There's nothing that I and the highest. A president who sits behind me would have been in our socks in the previous government business that was regarded as remarkable. But I wanted to ask. paritaprevir But if Ragnheiður's Ríkharðsdóttir, if she hears my case, would she not feel it a bit paradox to say on one of the tables that she would have liked to see more of the government business, on the other table it is absolutely clear that the other side of the table. A senator intends to support a bill in which many new institutions are expected. Hv. Jónasson Ögmundur, the daughter of Ríkharðsdóttir, who complains of being spending too much, said to him. paritaprevir But she's going to vote by not opening up a new embassy in Strasbourg. Wasn't it just the one here holding his short talk from this document now, the minister of foreign affairs, who shut down the embassy for savings because we thought at the time that the government's capital was better spent elsewhere? Is it not true that a new office called the master's office is also being developed? That's what they're gonna do. paritaprevir Ríkharðsdóttir also supports Richard's daughter with his votes. And also, I'm sure she's not going to be happy, but she's going to still, to support here the most ridiculous proposal of all those who are put on the board of travel. Why do I say that this is the most ridiculous idea of all of them? That's because we all know, me and the rest of this well-assigned conference hall, that there are two other agencies to take care of travel. Do we need a third? No. You'd better say so, yeah. paritaprevir The Ögmundur of Jónasson, that is certainly this layer of fat that the state body could do without being. There must be a way to agree.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u17	I agree.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u18	But this is what I wanted to say because I thought it would be right for me to answer that question in a speech. paritaprevir Ríkharðsdóttir Ragnheiður. It was a perplexing speech, but it was the sharp paradox in her case. At the same time as she felt that there was no special need to go further to improve the interests of the elderly and the disability of the elderly, she still exists with her vote to expand the state into luxury like a new embassy, such as the third tourism agency and a new master's office. This debate has made me feel that crystal was the core point of the political controversy that exists between the government and the government, at least part of the government's opposition. First of all, it is clear that the government's opposition to the future issue of Kingdom News is being opposed. It looks like the highest. The Minister of Education has loyal supporters in the anti-aggression. I want to take this opportunity to the highest level. The minister of education of Illugi Gunnarsson is welcome to the council members of the government opposition because he has support there. I'm also sure that the working woman, now entering the hall, and I have partly spent a large portion of my talk in speaking to her, even though I also spoke against, wants to support the battle in her heart. The Minister of Education and the Government for promoting additional funds on the State Radio. I thought there was some logic. The minister of education to be brilliant, and like many others, like Sál on the road to Damascus, made him return from his error because he firmly declared that he had been different in advance. He said: "There were new arguments and changed circumstances. The new evidence was that the cost of distribution was far higher than previously thought. The new situation was that the wage agreed on was much higher than was expected on the part of the State. New circumstances, new arguments, change his mind. I'm just saying, "I'm taking my hat off for people who change their mind." I've done it many times myself. Second, it's the Landspit. For example, there I am and the chairman of an independent party, apparently in her speech, completely disagrees. I believe that the argument given by the governor of the Land Hospital, Páll the son of Matthíasson, is from all sides showing that it is the right to stay in the same place as last year. Based on increasing population, for an increase in tourist populations and also for the age of the nation, 2.9 billion are needed to survive. And even though I agree with what's happened. paritaprevir Ríkharðsdóttir, I do not feel that giving the Land Hospital, perhaps the nation's most important organization, this money, including the way it was cut down to the Land Hospital while we sailed through the Depression, and considering the conditions in society, the blues of goodness. Third, of course, there is the bitter disagreement between us in the government opposition and the management team for the elderly and the desperate. Hv. paritaprevir Ríkharðsdóttir's daughter, Ragnhein, who sits in the hall and looks at me with her sharp eyes, which I didn't hesitate this time, seemed to believe that the elderly and the poor were living with something that at least would be unnecessary to add at that time. However, it is possible to expect humans to be content to live on torn hooks, on 172 of yours. K. once tax returns have been taken away? Watch your step. The chairman of an independent party survived such a thing? I doubt it. I couldn't, that's for sure. Let us not forget, too, that when the Independence Party cares, as many have done in this discussion, saying that there was an increase in donations for the elderly and the poor during this ideal period that when you look closely at them, the increase is during the entire terms of 10 weeks. K. - I'm 10 you've got. Call, let me tell you, to the elderly and the desperate when taxes are taken care of. Let us not forget that the increase in the last year's food tax takes place about 4 of you. Call for it. [[The president calls.]] So I say at the end of my speech, which is possible to be my last speech in this night, for I need like other men to sleep, that I challenge the management team to accept the challenge of improving the elderly and the desperate - we're both going to that group - be back on. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] May.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u19	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Aggressor for a good speech, which brought out the conflict issues that have been presented on the government's budget. He turned to The Kingdom Radio and what the consequences would be if RUV did not receive the ups we've taken. He turned aside to the land hospital, as well as the consequences of the land hospital that would not get at least 3 billion more so that he could live up to the responsibilities we would expect the Agency to take care of. Third, turned head. A senator looks at micropair and the elderly and the groups within the range of the poor. I think it's very important to do what's happened. A senator, trying to step out of the percentage world and into the world of the crown and reality, made the big percentages that the government has been getting puffed up by are already up to a total of 10 you. K. Hv. A senator then put it in the context of the tax increase that consumes much of that increase. Hv. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson quoted at night. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson, who said that the discussion was becoming more and more progressive and that discussions were being offered constantly by tips and information that improved the discussion. I'm so confused. A senator's coming to say that the discussion is not yet to be improved?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u20	Mr. President. After talking about the highest. Now, I believe a president is the least I deserve by his hand to be demoted, enough is enough. That's what I think. Jónasson That you're always learning. And even old slaves like us, who have been here for a long time, and who have tried and tried hard and read, getting new information, can still study from other members of the government to improve our understanding of the problems we face. For instance, it wasn't until this meeting earlier tonight that I realized that of the 10 you. A call that the government is so proud of having added penalties in three years is 4 of you. used with the food tax that went into effect about the last year. It's important to me to know. And so just to add it, because it now has something to do with the food tax, I know why. A senator remembers that there were counter measures to take in order to do so. Wax reforms were improved. Does the senator remember? Child damages were raised a total of 1,000 million. K. As we examine the current budget bill, 600 million were taken back. K. A total, so there's not much left. Now, I challenge it. paritaprevir Ögmundur the son of Jónasson, whom I know about going home without sleep until he is completely overwhelmed by hope that no more speeches will be held that so long as he learns who lives.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u21	V.E.G. President. Hv. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson is a generous man. He spoke to the administrative part of the world that he had been here giving attention to this discussion. I'll agree to some extent, but I already think that it was our lot in the government situation rather than the government's giving rather than accepting.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u22	Mr. President. People may not have information if they do not want to receive it. On the other hand, I know what to do. A senator agrees with me about his long experience that it is also our role that has been in the longest days and has most of our years behind them and even most gray hairs trying to guide those who may not be as far in development as well. paritaprevir The Ögmundur of Jónasson. Maybe I'm thinking about them why. paritaprevir The officials who have come here are confused, but obviously they had a good desire to improve the interests and interests of the poor and the elderly, but they do not know how to do so. I could mention one of three or four, and everyone would say the same thing, that they needed better information and more evidence to understand it. The best way to get them is, of course, to listen to men like former president of the BSRB, who I know that by their undeserved kindness will grant us the privilege of hearing many talks here later in the night. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u23	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson again and again before a wonderful speech. It is seldom possible that you will be as vigorous in this Assembly Hall as you already are. A senator will speak. I'd like to ask you what. A senator with regard to the change in the part to the hospitals. There are several factors, especially on page 18. 42 and 43, and in other places. One adjustment is up to 840 million. A.J., another of 280 million. K. Then there is one that is called Hospital House, complete. Unstratified contributions to hospital management. It says that a proposal is made about 50 million. K. temporary contributions to hospitals. We're trying to figure out what the majority of the thing wants, and here's a joint that's especially about a hospital. I know it's our common interests, both my and my. A senator, to do better with hospitals. Don't you need a better explanation for this? No further explanation is here. It's just said, 'The proposal is about 50 million.' K. temporary contributions to the hospitals I know why. A senator what that means? Other large joints have a detailed report on what you are doing, including To eliminate court lists and to buy more expensive medicines that have otherwise been impossible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u24	Mr. President. Hv. A senator refers to my questions about how certain things are understood in the budget. At that time, the hall may not be running well. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson, who has spoken of psychic intelligence, knowledge, and good wills about this series of paintings and brings here fresh and beautiful. And even if I may be able to offer some explanations on the table for the rest of the night. I believe a senator there, as in so many things, is far superior to me. paritaprevir It's Sæmundsson's stone. On the other hand, I'll point them out. A member of a recent committee called Páll the son of Matthíasson, who is still president of the Land Hospital, which he explains in detail the need for money. According to this, taking into consideration the change in the scope of the majority part, it is not necessary to maintain a similar service offer as it would be for a total of 1,400 million. K. for maintenance and new construction, 1,040 million. K. to meet a general demand increase of 400 million. K. to continue building tools and equal amount to cover the cost of a new labour contract. It was underestimated. Now I wish I could come out here if you could tell me why. A senator. However, I believe that in these matters it is important to work with the heads and staff at the Land Hospital. I think that experience shows that it has always been the best. When they finally stopped beating their beautiful faces, we started listening. As a result, even though I was not given to them hugs, guardians of the hospital, and the government, everyone embraced, at least a large part of the government's opposition. And why not repeat that game? Is it not far better to love peace and to wipe the belly than to stand in war forever? [[The president calls.]] Well, that's my experience anyway.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u25	A respectable president. Yeah, yeah. A senator says something. When I'm running through a transition plan, then. More than a part of the bill for financing is seen in smaller sections, such as in the form of a project called a wide range of 5 billion. A k., a temporary contribution to the Lions movement by offering to the world president. Does it belong to the law of the law? Why can't these organizations just figure this out for themselves? It's also 4 billion. K. A contribution to the Bible Society, and I have not yet come to determine whether it is the Icelandic Bible Society or not. As far as I know, they're a free group. Why, then, do donations directly from the government's funds come to them? What's the vindication of that? I'm having a hard time understanding that. It would be good if it were. A senator, as gray - and - schooled as he is, could explain this to me better.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u26	Mr. President. Here's what we're gonna do. A senator is far more powerful than I am given. Now I'm, like, the highest. The Republic's president, fully irresponsible of the administration ceremony, has no control over the way the management team makes its suggestions. However, over the years the General has always been quite effective in supporting a free organization that seems to have done a good job. I'm thinking about the Lions movement that it's actually done a great job to the point that it has been providing huge collections over the years to buy instruments, including the healing and the bodies. It may be due to some kind of price. In case of a moment. A senator wondered if there's any connection between these movements into the political parties, so it's hidden from me. [[The president calls.]] I'm in no union but Sparks, a charity society for heart disorders, and then I'm in the United States, still at least.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u27	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a fine talk earlier. He began by commending the individual members of the greater part of the material talks, speaking of their generosity, and positiveness toward those who had spoken, but when it was done, he struck us with the whips that his Word can cause us, which was a good language. [[Up front.]] But there was one thing I didn't understand. As soon as he called for more money on the health system, on the elderly, and on the disability of the elderly, and on to RUS, he dagged us for not reaching terms in terms of government, saying that it would be pathetic to have only an equation of 10 billion, the equation that could possibly go down, in fact, when all the agreements are due. But when we get together with all the ideas of the government that I think are considered to be worth more than 10 billion, we're running a government fund with a tilt. And they're making a deal. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller somehow makes it a business that doesn't belong to the public, especially to the country where I can't agree. I think it's a strange approach, and I want to ask you why. A senator. You have to show counsel and discipline and try to run a government fund in equal terms and with leftovers, like we're trying to do, and I feel pretty special when you're somehow beat out of both directions like a dog. A senator did so well here a minute ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u28	Mr. President. If you have a what? A senator if I had a fine speech earlier, he was much better. In this case, the government has produced suggestions that are worth more than 10 billion. It's worth 16 billion. However, it has provided suggestions for increase in income. My strong criticism of the budget bill is that, first of all, I see that maintenance has not been successful because I believe that much more is being done in the state. I'll remember that here's why. paritaprevir Höskuldur the son of Þórhallsson talking to an ordinary man. He's talking to a man who at his time cut the government's travel costs by 70%, just so it's totally in place. And with help from who. paritaprevir Ármannsson, son of Aargis, and other alert senators, I also managed to take the initiative to cut down about 30% from the 2008 Ministry's related expenses, of course, with the pressures of the crisis. But my big criticism is that after having seen the state's status improved for five years, we are now in the position that a new government on a good year's trip is beginning to intervening, it's like this at zero, like that. A senator said, just below zero. I believe that's because she's seriously weakened the government's income agencies. Hv. A senator may call it tax gain on my part. He also did so during his last term, and that was measured by OECD. So where was Iceland then? Right in the middle.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u29	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's answer to the counter-sponsor. In fact, I find a lot of things in his case that don't really go together. While we're being criticized in the majority of the money companies, it seems to me that whatever the government puts in place, there is a higher tax burden on a business abroad, as I have noted, which, of course, will detract from the income that these companies are paying for financial and financial gains in the country. I made comments that we were criticized for making small profits, but I can't see that the government is going to make more money and more money. All I've seen is that it's mainly with more budgets and more filing. That's what worries me. I have to tell you for what I do, though I still like a lot of things. A senator, and especially that he cut down on the foreign service, something like that. paritaprevir When Ögmundur the son of Jónasson was considered to be in such a bad way, the situation is irresponsibility. [[The president calls.]] I think she's irresponsible, and that's what I'm worried about.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u30	Mr. President. I don't want to stand here and brag about what I'm doing. Senator, he's talking to a man with experience. I gave him my own numbers. What happened in the days of the former government? Four emissary offices, in force of emissary letters and two emissaries, were closed. And so it is also quite clear that the third embassy was to be closed, which was then a financial committee and a smaller section member, i.e. in the present government, which, of course, I listened to the Council and stopped shutting it down, just so there's no doubt about it. But, of course, it's so that I think it's very important to lower the state's worth, then the interest rate goes down, it saves extremely much, but it's not happening. This is shown in many places in the committee's opinion, which is common. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir is responsible, that it will not be done for the next three years, and it will mess with the government budget. That's the big problem. We have some suggestions on how to increase the income of a state fund, not weaken it, and once again I say, "That's how I'm dressed, that's how I am, that I have this career and the past, and we made it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u31	A respectable president. I'd rather go over the budget bill and some of the things I haven't been able to do before in previous talks. It identifies this financial bill and an amazing number of budgetary changes in the extent of the general material changes that could have been assumed to be otherwise determined in the political field. Especially is this evident in road and transportation, since this government has never taken up its work in the implementation of a transport program that is the natural setting for establishing transport projects and setting their order. Thus, the Council is held away from political decision on priorities that are unfashionable and contrary to the regulations of the current law. It is worth reminding us that in the General's research report, there was insufficient order and rich ministers represented as one of the main factors involved in the collapse. The government has taken that completely new plan by never bringing anything into the council only through financial laws and thus altering the community's affairs only by means of budgets. It is so strong that she is also making plans for the appearance of houses on the changes made by a financial committee. There will be scope and scope for legal tasks. And no doubt there is an example of earlier being recommended by the financial committee for a change in the appearance of houses that contribute to money. This too is highlighted in this discussion about the 2nd budget. how much financial work is involved in the process of caring for the sheep. During the last term, a change in the assembly was taken, with the aim of increasing the possibility of a careful work ethic by hastening the General meeting date to the second Tuesday of September. This would allow room for the handling of the budget and the processing of the bill. This new system has been fully tested for the first time and for all now only this year and year last year, but it is noteworthy that the upcoming discussion day for the 2nd. The budget has been postponed on both occasions, although it has been an unprecedented period of financial development. In fact, following a discussion about the debate of Prime Minister at the beginning of the council, I have been on the highest level. The two prime minister in a row here in the side room with a television reporter on the air, on the 10th television newscast, and on both occasions he has the highest priority. Prime Minister took back a policy set out in a budget bill that has not even been recommended. This release in preparation of the budgets, in political policies behind them, and then in the processing of the budget committees has, of course, been a major failure and damage to the processing process. It was a national concern when it became evident that more of the budgetary committee had forgotten the teacher's pay raise in making budgets. In that way, a budget was needed to negotiate a collective agreement in that way. You would now have thought that a sum of 1.2 billion should be shown in error testing and reading, but there is, of course, much concern that this is not the case. Also, I wondered, " A funny word in a single adjustment motion with a small team was pointed out to me. ' That may not be a very big case, but it is a factor of 235 million. K. in turn a larger proportion of budgetary committees, the 06-651 Vega type, proposed about 235 million. K. temporary contributions to road construction in scattered areas. So it's logical, and it says in the text: A hundred and fifty million will be done by now. K. study project to seek less cheap solutions for the build-up of malarways. At the same time, it is suggested that bridges be given over the Sea, repairs on the North Sea/Hellad River, and fixes on the Tonstol Road No. 1,746,◯ Now that I've been going a little bit around Iceland, one thing really interesting is, it's how many years in Iceland. It is stated in the adjustment form of a greater proportion of legal committees: suggested that a bridge be given over the Þverau, but not exceeded each over each of the many available ones in the country. This must suggest that, in the future, there is a very exciting time for amateur road people over a wide and wide range of roads to update ideas about the construction of bridges and collect this fund from the Vegas, so if it becomes a law, according to a paper suggested in valid financial laws, money should be given to a bridge across the Þever without specifically specifying who it is. Finally, because my time is getting shorter, I want to emphasize the importance of this detailed discussion that has become of the 2nd budget. because in what other way the government is coming to Congress this winter. There has been no political debate that makes sense this winter because there has been no legal issue since the government promised. In this discussion, we have been able to throw the light on big matters, that pensioners are treated with justice with payers in the country, and we have squeezed out from the government answers on that subject, and the U.S. secretary's commitment to his credit that he simply thinks it's good that pensioners will be left behind when it comes to terms with pay. We have also cast the light to the health of the Land Hospital and the importance of providing sufficient funds and squeeze out of the administrative sector to stand out to meet the natural requests of the Land Hospital for an increase of money that has been called after the administration and was so well explained in the historical article "Kári Stefánsson's Son " during the week. We have also stressed the subject of Our Kingdom News, the importance of not allowing it to be the State Radio, and it will continue to be the highest education and culture in the country that it has been since its beginning, and it will continue to be a burden on the services of the widely distributed regions. This has been the focus of this discussion, and it is vital that we keep them in good shape, and it is good that we have been able to use her to throw the spotlight in this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u32	V.E.G. President. I'm going to continue talking about pensions and health matters. Senators have received plenty of mail from pensioners. We have met with them outside the General Assembly, and we have read their writings in magazines. It's obvious that these cases burn in pensioners, since certain pensioners are rated very down. We've been told they don't live on percentages, they want to talk about crowns. I'm gonna do it here. I'm going to take an example of a pensioner who lives alone and, as a result, has domestic satisfaction and thus has no other income than social security payments. Such a person has today's tax system for 225 you. K. The government contributes to an increase of 9.7% from January 1st, which means that the pensioner will receive a total of 246,900 bucks. People have noted that this is not in harmony with collective agreements and pay development and that this is not overreached. We in the smaller section have been fighting for retrospective payments in the budget of 10.9% which means that the payment would be on May 1, 2015, 249,600k. It's not too much, but less than 3 of you. K. and people who make so little money will remember it. We do not talk about adding eight months of increase in pay. In addition, from May 1, 2016, the improvement will be 5.9%, and then it will be 264,300. So we're suggesting an increase of about 18 ups. K. higher per month starting May 1st, 2016, compared with the administrative sector. So we're just gonna simplify this, we're gonna propose a single payment with this feedback at 196.240 k. and when we take together the monopoly and the increase compared to the next year's current improvement, this will all be up to a total of 608 you. K. The increase in the administrative sector is overall up to 262 you. K. The difference between you and me is less than 350 points. K. Overall. It's not much, the highest. President, for the highest. Secretary of the budget and the highest. Prime Minister, but for bio-employers with only social insurance benefits, this is worth a month and a half of payment. In effect, this would be the 13th month and a half months better, depending on the suggestions. No wonder a pensioner feels betrayed by the current government, who made a grand promise in the campaign and insists on obtaining as much as payers, as the law clearly states that compensation should be raised in line with a pay number, but never less than the index price of consumer prices. This, of course, was done to ensure that the law would automatically prevent the growing inequities. This should ensure that social security will be maintained in general pay development. Our proposals go beyond the fact that the income of a pensioner is holding on to pay development, but it is not going to guarantee it. He's going to keep from pensioners enjoying the pay box, and there's no retrospective payment. The difference between our proposals in pensions and the proposals of the Commission is one-and-a-half-month income of a pensioner who has only paid from social security on a yearly basis. This is quite remarkable, and it is remarkable that even though I have heard only one member of the board who has already declared support to us. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson is in the discussion earlier today. You also feel that many government officials hate that the government is not meeting those demands. It's just a fence line. Well, it's now been a while for my speaking, my highest. President, but I would like to call attention to the editors of the medical paper, the son of Sigurðsson, a professor of psychiatry and the head of medical staff at the University of Iceland and the mental state of the Land Hospital. In his recent issue of issue of Awake!, he cites his editorial on the left - to - be - off talk of the treatment at Land Hospital, and he expresses deep concern that the need to serve at the hospital is not being worked more firmly and that it is not being met with the increased need to serve in the hospital. Our main proposal in the smaller part of the increase in social security costs and improved health costs is widespread support in the community. People stand with pensioners and want Iceland to be characterized by social justice. Icelanders agree that there should be a medical priority on the tax system. But the government of Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunougsson - let's pretend she doesn't listen to us here in the lesser part, but it's more serious when we're at the highest level. Prime Ministers and his people are distracted by the will of the common people, the people whom they have authorized, and the government of the land. No wonder we have much power, which is speaking to the fine things that are being given great support!
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u33	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I wanted the first senator to see what has happened to several members of the council in the past few days where it has been held out from the platform that the pension of the elderly and the desperate is likely to be as much as the wages of others in the country, and just as I think it might have been. paritaprevir The Brynjar of the son of Níelsson in his discussion. the night that all the members of the United States have confirmed, including Iceland's Environment Association, and that there is no dispute. Second, I would like within the councilman for the development of my salary for the past two years. Is it so that in this ideal period, older people's wages and disability followed general pay development, or had they subsided before making these decisions and how much difference?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u34	Mr. President. No, the board of directors can't cover their backs on Iceland's Environment Association. This has held up a very logical and reasonable presentation, pointing out that pensioners are being left behind. There is a political decision being made, with the approval of the approval of the Unified Government Committee, to increase the inequities of Iceland. One of the most loud requirements for the European Union and the older citizen's Union is precisely that the rise in the rate of social security will be back on May 1. 2015. The trend has been that improvements should have been raised to the improved status of the state funds. Pensions certainly took their share of the crash, carried the least less burden in the community, and should now be corrected, but the improved status of the state funds has not been used to promote social security but, on the contrary, to reduce hunting costs, to risk extensions of money taxes, and to reduce the taxes of high-payers. In our memory, we're trying to correct a pensioner's share and we're having problems catching the hands of a member.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u35	A respectable president. Is it not true that when the purchases of people other than the elderly and the rising of the disability are automatically given financial resources? If doctors raise their pay and receive retrospective contracts, they will simply be paid from the state's funds and approved sources. If teachers are raised or other public employees, they are never asked if they are available for their expenses. If this proves not to be expected, it is only part of the council saying: There was a print error in certain agreements and an additional 1,192 million. Has the senator explained why it is always possible to ask whether there is a prerequisite for the raising of older ones and microorganisms? It is like their pay increases, and it should not be fully paid because the other people have spent so much money on pay raise. Does it not make any mistake that there is no money in the box when the government has recently entered the council and that they recognize their plans to give the foreign demands of the stable tax that had been determined and would otherwise have turned substantial revenues into government funds in the next year beyond those contracts that could have been set aside for these important projects?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u36	Mr. President. Yes, it certainly does. It may not be a coincidence that the administrative point did not want to discuss that matter when it was in the council earlier in the fall. There was no information on the difference between the stability process and the stability of the tax system. They didn't want to show us the results. They did not want to reveal all the money they were putting in the hands of the so - called vultures. With regard to pensioners, it is true that paying to them seems to be subject to laws other than pay paid to public employees. The laws are made in a way that, although the wording of the monasteries has been interpreted in various ways over the years, it is clear how to increase improvements because they are subject to making sure that pensioners have a way of developing. Of course, that is to be certain. It's about political will. V.E.G. The minister of finance seems to like to have the improvement just too low because it takes motivation for people to work. I don't know what motivates him to get people who are retired back to work. That's what I'm asking myself. Besides, I don't understand what motivates him to feel for people in his 60's, most of the people who go into disability are getting older or getting older, having diseases after their hard work days, and how he's going to develop the motivation to get them back to work. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This is a complete lack of understanding of the situation of pensioners.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u37	V.E.G. President. I make a sound primarily to join with what. Senator. I agree with its emphasis, and I believe it is the right thing to say to her that the financial bill, as it stands at this point, is very bad for the people. That's what I'm based on readings. Icelanders have well run and have a powerful health system, and when it is an inconsistencies fact that the Land Hospital will be dosed with financial resources that are not enough to meet its obligations, people are opposed. It's the same with disability. I believe it is the overwhelming will of the Icelanders that this will be fixed and restored to the condition of our government. What is more: I suspect that in this chamber, there is also more to this viewpoint. I don't think many members of the board have felt bad when we at the same time talked about in terms of disability and the elderly, the cuts at the Land Hospital, and the decisions or plans to place 2,2 billion in a state bank in Asia, all vague and unsurpassed. No one from the management team has shown any desire to discuss it at all except for the possibly head of the Economic and Business Committee, which has often shown color in this subject, but the general body has not put it that way. There's a discrepancy that I think a lot of people feel bad about.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u38	V.E.G. President. Yeah, you're right. Senator, I don't think many members of the council are feeling too well. But they are obedient, all but one, at the moment and subject themselves to the supreme authority of discipline. A prime minister who has repeatedly demonstrated that he seems unable to communicate with his political campaigns in a normal way. I hope it works better with fellow soldiers, even though he communicates with the highest. Education minister, because of the State Radio, suggests that he generally does not like to communicate and get through conversations and reason on beating things and leading to conclusions that others can accept. Now he's at war with his people. Like what? A senator pointed to them as measuring them for this. The assays show that more than 90% of Icelanders, regardless of their population, age, political and gender, want money to be prioritized by the health system. The government will answer this with a trial in the hospital. That is the answer to the general government of Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunnlerson to the public's attention on health matters. So when people are asked and the National Social Association of the United States asked if they trusted to live on more recent social security, more than 90% of them are not enough to make a living. It doesn't want the government, either.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u39	V.E.G. President. There's one thing I'd like to ask. A senator as to whether I'm right or wrong: I haven't followed all the talks that have been given on the financial bill, even though I have done so in the longest part. We have reasoned, and referred to information from the Land Hospital, that it takes a minimum of 3 billion for the Agency to carry out its duties. Have there been any perplexing explanations on the contrary? I have not been aware of that on account of the government. I haven't been able to tell you that there's any basis for this. It has been ignored, or has it been opposed by a simple sweeping claim that it doesn't need to be done, but has there been some compelling evidence that these funds are not needed?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u40	V.E.G. President. You see, there has been no grammatical argument. And it is so strange that the director of the Land Hospital and the Head of Hospital - powerful managers who went through a very difficult time along with other Icelanders with difficult strikes, almost this year, were in the current hospital strikes; the hospital has been in surgery almost since the turn of the century - which are a forward, positive, and powerful executives came to a financial committee and declared that the budget was absolutely inadequate. The hospital's law would not be met. What evidence did they receive? They were accused of spiritual violence. That's the logic that was presented. People who use such rhythms do not have the reasons for their team. And the highest. Health Minister, this is most disappointing, does not have her organization and is fighting for it; it is not here to answer for the efforts to gain additional funds. He should have suggested that there be a ran - over at a land hospital. I don't feel like going over the Land Hospital business, but bringing in what responds to the demand for more money into the hospital's business is a mere lack of confidence in the government. However, they have the maturity to show that they rejoiced in their assessment. They know that the hospital is being run for far too little money.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u41	Mr. President. Now that the night's down, I'd like to get president to know how long he intends to continue this meeting. It's clear that there are some who are on the rosary and we were here by morning. 3 a.m. and we'll have an early meeting this morning, at least there's a planned meeting at my place. Nine in the morning. I think there's a reason to ask a president and see if he's going to meet for an hour or two or three more. It's just a plan, as I say, of course, that you're resting a little before the meeting because there's some important decisions that you have to make in the morning. We're going to discuss the civil rights of the Albanian families and I think it's necessary that we have a pretty clean head, so I'm asking, a respectable president, how long he intends to continue this meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u42	Mr. President. We're in the middle of the Adventist, and it's getting a lot late at night and night. It has hardly been so often that the president has left so little to inform us of his plans, but the wind is meeting forward and late, and eventually he realizes by the expression of the president's expression, or other failures, how short it is at the end of the meeting. In view of what has been said here that there are meetings both on the regular committees and the Subcommittee in the morning, I think we have to ask for a very strong request to the president that he will start making this meeting work for the evening. There are a considerable number of people on the rosary yet, and it is quite clear that this must be completed because, if you plan to keep talking until morning, it will end naturally by people having to go to a meeting, and we are likely not going to spend 24 hours in a single public talk. So I'm asking the highest. President on when the discussion will be over.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u43	Mr. President. I'd like to agree with the members of Congress who have spoken before me under this team and ask the President when he intends to complete this meeting. It's now 2 o'clock in the morning, and we've been working hard all day, and we've got a meeting in the morning, as we've seen. I'd love to know when this meeting will be concluded and if the President can't be so sweet as to let us at least we know when this will be to come to an end, and then we can make a decision based on how we move on.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u44	Mr. President. I like other guys. Councilmen would like to request an answer from the highest level. President on when this meeting will be concluded. V.E.G. The president has made it clear that he is very pleased with the discussions about the budget and is happy to meet up in the night, but I don't feel that the length of a meeting can be controlled by the pleasure of a president at any time. Though he's very happy to be here at night, we're mad. Many members of the council get a little tired after spending evenings at long night meetings, and I feel that they need to be considered for members of the council who are leaving in the morning at committee meetings and other meetings by the council. V.E.G. Therefore, the president has to end a meeting now, because the discussion is not over, or let us senators know when it is scheduled to be closed tonight.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u45	A respectable president. Now, as usual, I'm afraid this isn't the eighth night we're standing here in the same situation and trying to call out answers about how long the plan is going to go on, and half the people are asking for mercy because it's almost two o'clock. That's because there's a very important meeting in the General and Education Committee at the time. 8:30 tomorrow morning. It is almost two o'clock, and although the General Assembly of the Icelanders now feels that the work laws are often overrun, they are in effect. It would be more challenging for us to respect the basics presented there, such as. about rest time. For one thing, it would be informative to know at the highest level. President, how long to last, and then maybe I'd like to give him the advice, and they'd like to recommend that this be done so that we can come to work, those of us who are supposed to be in a committee early in the morning.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u46	A respectable president. I feel like there's two things in the situation right now. It's either that men tie this meeting tonight and say it's good or that they call here the minister of the lawsuits, which is most divided. So it's health minister, social minister and education minister. We've called for them during the last few days, and we've requested that they come here and we realize how they feel about the case we've held up here. that older citizens and poor people need compensation, and if they don't mind that we're here with thousands of older citizens who live around 200 yards. K. a month after taxation. We don't get answers, and we're talking a little bit like we're a little distracted and having a hard time making them miserable. However, the battle here is to try to get compensation for large groups of people who have been left behind and whose government is leaving behind. [[The president calls.]] I don't think it's the best thing for the Ministers to come in here to answer us and explain why they think it's the right thing to push so hard.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u47	A respectable president. It's almost two o'clock, and there's a lot of news that there's a serious meeting in the General and Education Committee this morning and completely normal that this is not a meeting in the red flag at some point. We need to think that when that meeting comes, the members of the committee will be alert and well thought - provoking in the morning. There is also a limit to how sensible the discussion will be, although I must admit that in the night, it is more than early in the past, since it may sometimes have gone a little too strong, but I strongly encourage the president to explain his plans for a meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u48	V.E.G. President. We senators have been here since 10:30 this morning. It is 15 and a half hours, and we would consider it extremely normal. The president would tell us how long he intends to continue meetings. I'm not an expert on the conference board, but I can claim that I would never conduct a meeting and refuse to answer the meeting when I wanted to finish the meeting. I think that would be such a deal, but it seems here that there's some rule that is above criticism except for us who would like to be answered and that we don't get any. It's a natural abuse of power, and I'd like to have the highest power. The president will show us the honor of telling us how long he intends to continue.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u49	A respectable president. There's a reason why the waking law was set at its time, or in 1930 if I remember correctly, it's because of the exact conditions we have here, where people are being held forward entirely and unsure of when they'll get home. I'd also like to mention what might be dramatic, that insomnia is a form of torture, so we need to get home. I'm tired, I've been here 15 hours, good if not 16. It was like last week, it was like that yesterday, they found it on Saturday. In the smaller section, we are willing to get to know the greater portion and discuss the matter and try to smell things in these matters, but prime minister reports that there is no such thing. It gives us the material to continue even longer. On the other hand, there is a reason why the law of wakefulness was set.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u50	A respectable president. The night is enough, the ghost said. But I have now expressed the opinion before to a respectable president that she should be spent with her loved ones at home rather than here in the hall with him, there is a much more sensible use of time for many reasons. But I would like to join members of Congress to encourage the president to determine when he intends to complete the meeting so that people can make their own arrangements, order cars, and so forth. At the same time, I'd like to call for the highest. A health minister in particular, Kristján Þór Júlíusson, who has not endured this discussion all day, will at least be so little if there is to be something that should continue and listen to the discussion as the highest level. A minister of education did yesterday, although he did not naturally trust to discuss in a material sense the large zero delivered in the state radio.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u51	A respectable president. I know I don't have to tell a president what time it is, but he's right. Looks like she's now two minutes over two in the night, and like other members of Congress, I'd like to ask a president when he's going to break up this meeting. Are we expecting to be here until the hour? 5 or 6? There is still enough to talk about in the budget bill that has been presented in our recent talks is a natural scandal in many ways, so we can talk about it forever. President. When will a respectable president intend to end this meeting?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u52	A respectable president. When you come up here and talk to a president, you never get any response. It's a little strange and definitely Colombian to watch. It's like we're talking to some president in a town because we never get any answers. It's not complicated. We are asking two questions: First, how long will this meeting take? Second, we would like to have the Ministers of the three major lawsuits that we have highlighted in the discussion. We've had no response to whether they'll be called, whether they'll be here, or whether they'll support the discussion by talking to us about these important issues, i.e. Funding the health system, requiring enormous amounts of money in addition to what is suggested if we are going to continue to have health - care systems in the front order, and then it's an older citizen's discretion and disability. They say they've had enough while we don't think so, they don't even keep the lowest wage in the country. I want answers to these two questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u53	A respectable president. It's not much of a question for the presidents to come, i.e. Ministers of the mercenaries. It is customary for them to attend the discussion. It's a custom if they're called by mercenaries, stewards, or committee presidents, if they're attended, I don't talk about when the budget is under control. So when asked for it, it is not much to be asked, and there is the ultimate purpose. President to continue meeting here, since he gives no answers, that the prime minister who has been wanted to attend the discussion. At the very least, it is possible to honor the discussion taking place here. Here are the administrative opposers in the discussion of the budget for questions, comments, and arguments that the Ministers should witness and be here to answer if necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u54	V.E.G. President. I would like to repeat my request that the president give us information about when he intends to end this meeting. I'm gonna take my word and wish. Councilmen here wanted to go to the highest. Secretary of health, the highest. Secretary of education and the highest. The conference will be conducted by the minister of society and housing. I'd like to tell two of those counsellors that they were here part of the day, but the highest. A health minister has just not been seen during this discussion. We have a budget of less than 3 billion for the Akureyri Hospital and the Land Hospital, and we want to hear his opinion of it, and we want to see if he disagrees with the directors of his institutions for financial needs in this hospital. These are important questions, and not just we who want to know, they're all common people in the country who would like to answer them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u55	The president wants to say that the counsellors have been made aware that their presence is requested here in this room.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u56	A respectable president. There is reason to thank the president for informing them of this. It is necessary, then, that they do not rely on the discussion. Of course, if the members of the mercenaries do not trust in the discussion of their own lawsuits, there is no basis for the legislative authority to continue the discussion. This is where the Commission's bill on budgets for next year is covered. If the Ministers of the individual case groups of the European Commission do not want to come here and represent them, there is no reason for a legislatator to respect himself to continue a meeting here into the night. That is why I suggest that the president make every effort and cancel the meeting, and if they wake up for the morning's discussion, we take the initiative to speak with the Minister in daylight.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u57	A respectable president. I would like to reiterate wishes to the president that he would inform the proposed work programme for the rest of the night and be glad that he informed counselers of his wishes. This is normal when talking about the budget, as the nature of the case, in the case of the 2nd issue. has an amendment which is certainly responsible for the trust of the legislature committee but has been approved by the government, that ministers are available. It is, of course, theirs to stand up for their affairs of affairs compared with the financial proposals adopted by their own government. For the discussion, it is important that they be present when it is requested. I'd like to thank the President for the suggestion he's made in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u58	Mr. President. I think the President's conference board is just excellent, but it would be good to have him answer when this meeting is to be concluded. I want to be somebody else's. Congress requests the presence of the highest power. Minister. We got here yesterday's highest. Secretary of state and supreme. Education minister was here with us today and tonight, but I miss not getting the highest. Secretary of health and the highest. Social Affairs, for we are discussing matters that fit their fields and that are very important to them to be at their discussion. I wish, though so long in the night, they would be called here if something to continue this meeting until the end of the night.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u59	Mr. President. I agree with that. It was a pleasure to see the highest. The social and housing minister today, but she did not participate in the discussion. However, the highest came. The Minister of Education here and participated in the discussion, answered, not just one member of Congress, but more. That's what matters. There was a change of opinion and an opinion of what was being asked. That's what we're calling at the highest. Secretary of health. I think this is the third night they wish for his presence. I think he's going to get him off on this huge case, which is under him, the National Hospital and Health Service in the country. A social and housing minister could have come up and answered questions about the elderly and the poorer than she has so far. At any rate, however, three ministers have been seen here during the discussion, which is not unusual. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking if there's anything at the top. Healer from when we asked for him earlier today and again tonight.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u60	President. I had to pull myself into a side room for a meeting, so I haven't quite been able to track the President's reaction to those requests. They've been asked for the very presence of the highest. A health minister here and was actually made at about the same time in the night as it did today, more than once and more than twice. Of course, according to the Congress, we are expected to attend meetings. This is true both for members of Congress and for members of the Ministers unless the legitimate benefits are met. A member of the council needs to explain his distance to the highest degree. President. In fact, I feel completely uncomfortable with the medical discussions here on health matters, the address of the Land Hospital, the personalisation plan, and some other matters that have come up here in the discussion, that the minister is not present and that we are not given an explanation. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask a president if he'd been able to give the council some explanation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u61	Mr. President. It is true, as we have seen, that the term "presence " came from the highest degree. Minister of Social Affairs and the Supreme Minister. Secretary of education and culture today and they both came here. V.E.G. A minister of education participated in the discussion. It was so strange that you were grateful to the highest degree. A minister would have given so little to come, but, of course, I'm sure. The situation has somehow changed, so you don't expect the highest. His ministers call the President of the Generals. Of course, that is totally unacceptable. But the highest. The minister of health has not been seen, and has been called all day, and yesterday, and here are under many circumstances. It is not only the Landspians and the canals up to over a billion that we see but also an invitation at the clinics in the capital area where we need to have a word - out with him. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u62	The president would like to confirm that a word has been made to the relevant advisers that their presence is requested here. Formal reactions have not yet been received in order to inform the president. The president has an understanding of the fact that the members of the council have become allotted, yet he intends to continue a meeting for a while.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u63	Mr. President. At the beginning of my speech, I want to review a conversation as the highest. Financial and economic minister was referring to the chairman of the United States of America, huh? paritaprevir The aged Páll Árnason, here last morning, was talking about the interest of elderly ones and poor people. V.E.G. Financial and economic ministers wanted to remind you that the population needs to be some catalyst in order to stop the disability. He did not put it that way, but that is how you understood it. He mentioned that this group had become young men who had escaped from school and had not reached their feet and had become desperate. I've been thinking a lot about those words. A minister, and he is amazed at them, for with them he shows great lack of understanding about the situation of the poor and the elderly. He seemed to point out this to argue that this group, the elderly and the desperate, should be the poorest group in the community. This could be justified. How to reach that conclusion is incomprehensible. Even at the highest. The minister thought it was very strange to say it out loud here on the air and that this excuse could be found not to allow pensions to rise to the level of the lowest wage in the elderly and micro-pair. What you do when you figure out a percentage of the terms you're supposed to raise around the year, i.e. 9.7%, based on pay development, calculated to date a pay sheet and to withdraw the pay range so that the elderly and the poor will no longer receive the money paid for other classes. They must not enjoy a pay bag, nor must they enjoy a special dress that is now enjoyed by those on the lowest salary. It's very unfair. We've gone over it over it over and over and over again and spoken to deaf ears, unfortunately. These matters are discussed in the cold law code. We have a real problem with that. When I'm at the highest. Of course, a financial and economic minister began to talk about the young men who had escaped from school and were unable to get their feet off their feet, thinking of the number of school restrictions that make it difficult for them to go back to school at 25 years of age and older. It would be much closer to the highest. The government would go out in organizing measures to support the high - ranking group. Economic and economic ministers feel that it is important not to get to a better place than any in society who are the lowest paid and therefore want to keep everyone else who is desperate or the elderly below. Of course, it would be better to open high school, not close them up as high as possible. Government's doing. You do not really know where to begin to stumble at the highest level. Financial and economic ministers. A man was hit over that side as high as he could. A minister showed himself and his arguments that are used to keep the elderly and micropair in the worst place in the community. That is what I would like to say at the end of my talk, at the end of my talk, to mention a subject that has not been discussed in this discussion but that is a big matter. That is a plan for emissions and the funds that need to be shown in government accounts. It is known that there have been some contracts and have been approved. In fact, subtitles with the budget are still talking about stable taxes, although the policy method has been decided. It took a very long time to figure this out. It has been suggested that the delay and conflict between the parties in which we should go cost us another hundred billion because the position we are in is expensive and time is precious. It has been suggested that this delay and decision should come at a rate of another hundred billion. Clearly, there must be some debate, some suggestions, and some figures over this money and how to spend it in 2016. The text in the budget bill, written on the middle of the year, speaks of paying down debts to the Federal Bank. It is wise to do so, but it is not the norm. It is said that 170 billion are going into 2016, but when we were discussing these matters to a financial committee, we said that it was not clear how this was going to go down, and it was not known if we were going to take it into the budget or into the budget. It's clear now that we're not taking this into the budget because there's been a close call on the committee and suggestions. We must take this big issue, with at least 379 billion of them going to Christmas, into a financial committee, and then review it carefully, and then bring it into the Senate Hall for discussion. Of course, the sleeve will not be shaken out. This is one of the big issues we need to discuss, and a financial committee needs to focus on. Madam President. The land hospital has also been under discussion. We've been calling after the ultimate. A health minister comes here to participate in the discussion. We need to understand why people accept it, and why they feel that the patient's increase is likely to follow the resources at clinics that are private and medical centres that are private about the city, but when it comes to revealing the system, public health clinics and health clinics and Landsvilles and hospitals should be cut down to cover the costs of a number of patients. No one has explained to us how to prove it. Why is this so? Why is it understood that when it comes to public institutions, more patients need to be followed at places that are private but that shut down all their senses? V.E.G. The secretary of health has not answered this question. He hasn't been seen here in the first place. The President has called for him here to come to our homes for the members of Congress. What a disappointment and a reason to complain about it!
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u64	Madam President. I thank the senator for his speech. That is exactly what we are facing, and it has been pointed out that there is an amazing number of things we need to take into account. A budget with very large numbers. When you read the description of the greater part, it is said on the front page that there is a country that is starting payment and that interest costs remain the third largest case according to health care and social security. It caught my attention that both in a national financial programme and in the majority opinion, the government may not seem to be able to pay off debt. Then we face an irregular income that is not really meant to improve the basic affairs of the state that I am deeply concerned about. We've discussed on the budget that this is something that we need to consider seriously, an underlying government business, because, despite stability, is still an irregular income. So we're going to get to the welfare issues. It's just ideologies, isn't it? Is it not clear for political reasons that, despite the practicality or non-profitity of the business, the use of the natural combination is reduced, i.e. that the state does not physically run its own health care; that it be transferred to a private person? [[The president calls.]] Here again, money laws are being placed in place rather than political discussions at a Senate Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u65	Madam President. Only on the stability project and negotiations that were decided to take place and the handles we had on the demands or the positions we had toward the demands. It was formed in March 2012. I think it's time to remind you of it from time to time. Some call them the songs of little or less emergency law because they were prepared for the oceans, and thus we were able to go on the way they had gone. It is also true to remind that independence votes were passed against that bill and the candidates were sitting by. But we're enjoying this way, and the stability project is going in and that's what we have to do. Hv. A senator spoke of the state's position of financial affairs. It is also a very big story that for the first time since collapse, the recovery rate is reduced from year to year. Of course, he was a great man while we were waiting for the crisis, and we made arrangements to do so. But after that government, the right government, has accepted them, it has stopped, and now it is shrinking from collapse for the first time between years. This is of interest to us in what position we have come because of the government's policy on government money, and it is likely that their policy on health matters is to lead us toward an increase in personal affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u66	Madam President. I thank the senator for the answer. You see, this is a concern, not just the government business that independent and progressive people are surging off. I agree with what. A senator, it is very important to remind you of how this was accomplished because it is clear that we were not here in this position -- fortunately we are in this position - unless this decision was made at the time and we were blessed to do so. This may show how present - day government groups appreciated the situation at that time, perhaps they do not value it properly now and do not use money as we would expect. There's been some talk about all kinds of values in the other and this on the part of the government. I gave it up because I was having a conversation earlier tonight with the viced legal committee, and he didn't think that we had such limited medical contributions, as I thought, that OECD reported that we were not actually giving less than a few of our health - care revenues and internal health care providers. We've talked about it for a long time, but what you're worried about next year and the Land Hospital or other health institutions is that it's not just the Landspit is in trouble. There are other health centers that are in trouble. It seems that the government will push it away, and I can see that when we conduct a budget operation, we will face a position we've talked about here that will arise, but the government refuses to confront it. [[The president calls.]] Well, maybe. The senator would not agree that it will be very soon on the budget board to try to figure out what should be done?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u67	Madam President. There is very little country around here where funds for renewal, maintenance of facilities, equipment purchases, and development are available. I didn't like the news when the OECD documents showed that we're second best in this regard, in the middle of Greece and Mexico. It is not association that we want to keep in. If we should stand equal in Denmark, e.g. 14 billion should be earmarked to these joints each year. We're far from it. Of course, we've been discussing the need to build a new national hospital, and we've reduced our maintenance during the crisis. Clearly, though, we need to give in and get out of the place where we are. That's the way it is, so I just say, and I'll use my last seconds in it, that it's very disappointing how the government is doing with the results that we're building and the people in this country. They're spreading the results of giving back to people who are rich. Reduce fishing costs, reduce fiscal taxes, make income tax changes that reduce even role and give the most repercussion to those who do not need them, and this could be done for a long time. Thus, for the first time in the middle of a collapse, the supply bath is between years and years. [[The president calls.]] It's because of poor financial management and the right policy of weather up here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u68	Madam President. I thank the senator for his speech. This is so unfortunate that the question I was going to ask was, What is the reason for the rest of the newborn's recovery to be no more than it is from year to year? But, hey. A senator was so mysterious that she basically answered the question in the way I was getting up to ask her questions and in order to teach poor financial management and right emphasis. Hv. A senator has considerable experience from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and from work on a financial committee, both as a majority of them during the previous term and as well as at this time. This has been made clear in the discussions here that the work of a financial body is unacceptable. Then I'd like to pray. In a few phrases, a senator must sum it up: What makes the work of the current financial committee unacceptable? Many things have been listed up, big and small. But for someone outside of the budget board then, I would accept support to set priorities and separate the forest from the trees so that we could see the bigger picture. Then I'd like to ask. Because, as we have noted many times, the budget is a bill that best reflects more of the part, and may be the political one of all the people discussed at the General Assembly: if we look at the policy that has been drawn up for the last two and a half to three years, i.e. both in income and expenses, living, spending, working expenses, etc.: What happens if this government policy continues to surface? [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. In some cases, the president uses that expression for a time (or, a·neʹnei). For example, if we anticipate this course for the next ten years, what course will we be on?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u69	Madam President. First, work at night. It's a legal committee. Of course, we have a large task on the committee that we need to review. But I can say here that what I've found to be high on that job is that there's no confidentiality between people and trust. It depends on the job and cooperation between my share and most of it. When I was on a budget during my last term, there was something else. Of course, we also had a large, larger, and harder assignment, which was an understanding, and it was confidential. There was confidential agreements and agreements, at least on the course of events. While there are disagreements about the outcome, there was talk of how to work things out. But there is little about it today, and there is more to it than just working separately and that a solid state does not work between humans. That's not good. But, hey. A senator asked me how I could imagine the future with right control here for the next ten years, and I just can't imagine it at all. I think it will be not just the health system that would suffer for it but clearly the education system as well. I don't like that. If the extremeisticism and the bread loaf theory that everyone has long since stopped believing in the world are dragged in here and old - fashioned politics, the welfare community is in danger.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u70	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's answers. It has been obvious that the work of the budgetary committees is not the best option. A senator, after his great experience, makes it clear that he is primarily responsible for the lack of trust in a financial committee. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: Is it possible to build trust in such a job where it is not available? Is it entirely in the hands of the greater part, or can the smaller part contribute something to the benefit of such a response? Then, perhaps almost a philosophical question: Is there some way that the policy of government is insuficient? At times, I have felt that this approach, a majority of legal approach, includes destabilizing because it has certain objectives to keep the smaller parts uninformed, etc. to keep the majority of them. I'd like to ask a senator to take action. Then it says why. A senator that the health and education system would suffer for continued right policy and the welfare system would be in danger. What kind of system, then, would we see? Counts 'em out. A senator said that we were talking about a system where people would buy into education or buy into the health system? How sad that would be, however. A senator, if he insists on looking only at this trend and the political ups that the right government has put here?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u71	Madam President. I think it's clear where people are going. Already we're paying, Icelanders, over the table, 30 billion in the medical system, and about 14 in the education system, but my memory may fail. But this is about what the Icelanders are paying over the health - care table and for education, and that's a good summer. This is one National Hospital a year. It is going in this direction with increased remuneration, as we have seen, for example, that last year, the price for those who need training and the help tools, when there was an increasing payoff. We watch it in the number limits in high school, where people are pointed to private schools where there are also considerable school fees. There is a reduction in taxes that reduces the income of a government fund to support the health and education systems, and this encourages it. If you want a service, you have to pay for it. This is a vision of the future that I just can't imagine for the Icelanders and we have to fight it. There's something like this, so I'm gonna come to a budget board just at the end, like we've seen right here in the Senate Hall: you guys shouldn't be talking. You were out of here. It's a bit of this attitude.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u72	A respectable president. This was a question asked to the president of the President a few years ago, but now it is hoped that there is a new president in the chair, and I want to know when he intends to complete this meeting. It has been brought to the attention that there are meetings at the General Board and Education Committee at 8:30 a.m. Of course, those who are present at this meeting need to make their own arrangements and arrange for themselves. I'm right about the President informing the council how long it is planned to continue this meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u73	A respectable president. I want to agree with what. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar and go to the president's office to find out what his plans are for further conferences. It is possible to facilitate the planning of the council by informing us if one more talk is planned or if the president would like to leave a night here. It is now stated that the time of the discovery has been ended, and this has been in itself in the common sense of members of Congress and the Presidency in what way has been done here at night. I simply ask for the president's declaration on the continuation of the common understanding.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u74	A respectable president. We're always talking into nothing. Doesn't the President mind the administration of this meeting? Why can't the President tell you how long we'll be here? Why can the president not say if the word was our request that the ministers of social affairs and health care be called upon to have a word with us about what is being done in these laws? Don't bring them in here with dating issues for discussion. The financial debate has become a matter of policy in the major topic areas. It is of utmost importance that they come here and discuss these matters with us, but they did not send in forever a meal to claim that this is doing something that is not being done here, i.e. ... thatyouareimpressing some record of older civilian reforms and disability, e.g., as the panel is being held. It's simply wrong. I think the Ministers need to come down here and recognize what road they're taking and whether they're really going to live up to the budget they're taking right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u75	President. As we have seen, we find that the way we bring our existence here at night and, among other things, is that we constantly face the same questions that we do not get the answers. It is also virtually hopeless to explain to normal homes what this is all about, that evening after night and night after night, we are working at the legislature and don't know when the day of work is over. I now live so well to have teenagers in my home who say that these are remnants of the time when there were only men at the General Assembly who could walk to ignominious floors and decorated Christmas trees at some point in the Shrecking Mass. I think this is another example of us being stuck with all kinds of fossils and dinosaurs, which are absolutely time to shed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u76	A respectable president. During the last term, family - related workplaces were often spoken of. It hasn't been better since then. But because I think that Mrs. President now on the President's chair is a family-friendly woman I'd like to ask her if she doesn't pity us poor senators and give us information about when we might be able to go home tonight. Although the men usually don't see why, I intend to appeal to my sister in the Presidential chair and ask her to give us information about when she's going to break this meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u77	The president could easily respond to that request and thus state that he had thought that there would be one more talk before a meeting is delayed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u78	Madam President. First, I'd like to thank the President for allowing me to talk in here tonight and hopefully put the rest of the hall to sleep with a smaller voice that's beginning to look like the voice of some woman I don't want to look like. [[It's a joke.]] Now, I'm going to go to more serious things, and I'm going to go over the realm of the budgets that are available here. Me and others have said that this government is primarily the government of rich people and their more prosperous ones. She shows this by her words. These are the third financial laws that this government has committed, and they have all testified that there is a higher priority for their material interests, as the right policy indicates, we need not be surprised at this. They are about to increase division, transfer funds between the chemical and chemical sectors by various measures, reduce the eco-efficiency and private quality of life as much as possible, establish institutions and other personal functions. That's what's being done here, for example, by going to an invitation on a health care unit in the capital area. Here it is hidden and clear that money is being drawn from the public health system into the sector. I think it's very dangerous. This development will be able to move quickly, such as snowball. It is so dangerous to weaken the public health system, for it will naturally be dissatisfaction with the services available for financial gain. People in general are talking positively about the unique health centers that seem to have much easier access to money in the state. Thus, things continue to roll, and the public, while at the end of the day, is becoming more positive to it, only in terms of access to good health care and this is not a good development. I hope we all have the best interests of our hospital, but it's also very bad. I'm going to quote the president of the Land Hospital, Páll Matthíasson's son, by permission of a president, that governments are far lacking understanding on the need for the land hospital for the next year. He says that while the hospital's interest in the future was agreed to be reimbursed, this will not change for the next year. It's a very serious situation. In an interview with the director of the Land Hospital, the budgets for health insurance are automatically increasing each year because of changing ages but not with the Land Hospital. Páll, by permission of the president, says: ▪ [The pressure] increases at the hospital each year, which is normal and does not have to be surprising, and is actually linked to the changed population age composition. That's what we're talking about. We need to get into the model, in fact, an automatic rise when the nation's ages [change]. We know that since 2010 the pressure has increased on average by 1.7 percent per year. So all the money we receive new ones without being expected is, in fact, like a savings charge. Páll says that it is a fact that money was drawn for decades to the hospital until the last two years. We know that, but the Landspians were in a very bad position when the collapse occurred. He hardly had money for pay or medicine. Páll, the Matthíasson of Machiah, continues, with permission of the president: ▪ Requesting funds to care for decently ill people is no fault. It's just part of what comes from running here a decent modern society. These are words from a man who knows the affairs of the Hospital and is to accept them. Sadly, though, much of the legal committee does not seem to take note of the serious warning words given by the director of the Land Hospital. Of course, we will well conduct the chairman of a legal committee in this case when Páll the son of Matthíasson and others from the Land Hospital came to a legal committee. The chairman of the legal committee said that this is a spiritual act of violence toward him when these members described the more serious state of the Hospital. Only that the elderly and microp poor have been very much discussed, natural, because we in the management situation have put undue emphasis on focusing on and demanding that their benefits be improved and, if before, and restored to May 1, like the wages of all other employees in the country. People often look to other countries to compare benefits. We'll compare ourselves more often than we can compare with the North countries. I'm here, with the permission of the President, to quote the words of Björgvin Guðmundsson, a former senator who has written a great deal on the affairs of the elderly. I've quoted him before in my talks. Björgvin says, with president's permission: In Denmark the government asks what they can do to improve the quality of older citizens. In this country, governments are looking for ways to avoid raising the pensions of older citizens even if they are increasing the payoff rate. In contrast, these two countries have governments. There are different opinions about senior citizens in Denmark and Iceland. It's as if the U.S. government were opposed to senior citizens. It is high time, for these power institutions in Iceland to change their view of the elderly and the desperate and to take a more positive view of them. I wholeheartedly agree with those words of the son of Björgvin Guðmundsson. Of course, it is very good when we have such strong words about society in order to speak the language of the elderly. The elderly and the desperate have no right to strike, and they rely on us generals to protect them from the benefits and to improve them when other employees of this country receive compensation. The poor also have a very powerful wording that has come to the fore with both us and the people as well as with the importance of improving the terms of these groups and that we are not in the place where these groups are always backward everywhere. We want them to be fit for decent benefits. I say again and again that these budgets bear strong evidence that here is a bad right control. The landscape is getting very bad out of this financial bill, education is getting really bad out of this financial bill, health issues are going to get bad out of this financial bill, transportation's going to get a bad deal out of this financial bill, and our Lander's gonna get really bad out of it. If nothing has to be done, it is likely that older citizens and poorer people will end up being badly treated by this financial bill. I'm just going to hope that people can see for themselves and bring back some changes to the budget bill and make some better things for them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u79	A respectable president. Two things have caught my attention in this discussion about health matters and older citizens' concerns and disability. That is, first of all, the highest attitude. The secretary of finance when he here says in a speech that we senators need to get it into our heads that we need to be some kind of catalyst in the system. Then I wonder what. A senator saw what the minister means. What are these groups? These are often long - suffering people who cannot earn a living. They are also people who have fulfilled their life's work and are expected to have it well; after spending decades in a job market, they can live with dignity. You wonder, " What's going on with calling here, throwing in the group, that it needs to be catalyst in the system? ' Worried to what? I ask if older citizens in general should just keep working. Or how to see it. A senator? Then there's the other attitude: Hv. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson, in his discussion, says that he believes that it is impossible to deal with what the Landspians have called for, i.e. Less than 3 billion dollars to stay gone. If it is left behind, it will only call for another 3 billion, and then another 3 billion, and it will become an endless demand for new and new 3 billion. It's a piece of dog; it's like someone's hand is a cash they don't need. I'm worried about that attitude. If this is the attitude behind the suggestions set out in the budget bill, we are faced with too much pressure from those who want to do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u80	Madam President. It is not so, though a minister of finance may think he is powerful, that he can say to a disabled person: Take your bed and walk. Men have not come to that place, so I become Christian because Christmas is coming. But I've found this discussion very special. Also, putting the elderly under the same hat; being such trouble groups that always continue to multiply and demand more. This has been a humiliating debate, to me, to some members of the council and to the Supreme Court. Secretary of finance, as well as the strong negatives of the highest. Prime Minister when he put it in our face here on Monday that nothing would be negotiated with the government's stand. We're not calling for contracts. We are calling attention to the need to negotiate with older ones and to make provision for them. We're just fine here, senators, and we're just pretty good for a lot of other guys who have to live on the nerds. Of course, it's a shame that, as I've mentioned earlier in speech, older citizens who have worked hard since they were fifteen years old get only less than 190 you. K. paid in a month. It's something so incredible. It is not as if money can be given.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u81	Thank you. A senator for this. That's right, as a matter of course. A senator says, it's a concern that it's like the highest. ▪ Prime Ministers view this as an inconvenience to us; it is about us and reasons to be boring; thus, his words could be understood here. You're absolutely right. A senator says, this isn't about us, the senators, but we're fighting for the groups that don't have a voice in here. We are the ones who make a decision for these large groups. It is in here that the government groups have decided that it is okay for people to have less than 200 of you. K. paid in a month. We don't think so. I know we what we're doing. A senator wholeheartedly agrees on this. But it's important that it come out. It is said that this time the government is in the middle of a traditional language code, as if there was nothing behind the fact that we're here fighting. It is important that we draw out why. It's for these groups that we stand here and for better health care. Indeed, it needs to be done. I don't think there's a single human child who has to be improved in the medical system. It does not go unnoticed by one person but, rather, one who looks at it, that there is money for it. While this government has been giving up money, it has made a direct decision to leave these groups behind and not do more for the health system.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u82	Madam President. Only for disability: I strongly support the poor who have the potential to get support in part to the labour market, depending on how their position is supported, and to receive all the help available to them in the good health. Then it becomes clear whether they can, in part, participate in professional activities and participate in increasing social activities. It's just very good. But we must also face the fact that there is no choice for many microorganists. We will also need to look for ways to change our thinking and career. The job life, both public and private, needs to be ready to accept those who have limited work ability and can offer them a flexible work schedule, part - time work, and all that is involved, meeting the needs of this group. I think it's a good thing for those who have any chance of doing that, wanting and having the ability to do it, to be supportive of it, but there are so many other things to change into society about their jobs and the way they feel about this. You can't just say that we're trying to reduce the number of microsurgents because people only go into disability for fun. It's not like that. No one should let such expressions fall, not people who have a measure of dignity for themselves and should be grateful that they are not in the situation of many despairers. [[KJ: Hear, hear]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u83	A respectable president. It is well - known in the conference hall that in the heat of the game, we have a reason. Councilmen say this to one another, some things you regret, and other things that are taken as light jokes in the heat of the game. I see reason to speak here specifically of what it is. Birgitta This morning's Jónsdóttir, which she has about me on which I saw, says that she had to look for trauma because of my rudeness and rudeness when she was my companion at the last assembly. I think this is a serious comment, a respectable president. I have not received any comments from the presiding committee or the chairman of the council on the way I treat myself. paritaprevir In particular, Birgitta Jónsdóttir, I request that the presiding committee and the president of the council agree that this comment will be examined and considered. In other words, I don't particularly know how serious this is, I'm sorry if it's true that members of the council who are my partner here at the council have to seek emotional help after that. [[The president calls.]] I believe that there will be good reason to consider this subject on the presiding committee and to consider the matter specifically.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u84	Sure.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u85	The president is not aware of this statement, but will on request only. A senator examines these.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u86	A respectable president. The meeting was terminated in the fourth hour of the night, and a meeting began at a global and educational committee at 8:30 this morning. It took five and a half hours for a meeting to end until members of the council were called to serve on a committee. For days now, a modest question has been raised to the President who is sitting here on a chair to find out what the plan is. They talk in the night. There are no answers, and there are men sitting in a chair with some silly silence, refusing to inform members of what they are supposed to do, what their plan should look like. A respectable president. This process is so demeaning to the Congress, it has become so demeaning to this workplace that it no longer talks.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u87	While there is a situation where there is no end of the budget discussion, the president and the Presidency Committee are fully discouraged from being able to organize the council's activities, let alone some forethought. Today's situation is very unusual, resulting in the very unusual operation of the council, as everyone knows.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u88	A respectable president. I'll agree with the highest. A president to the comments as we speak. paritaprevir Ólína the Þorvarðardóttir daughter was here in charge of the Council's work plan and organization. Of course, it is very difficult to organize the council when the government situation is not prepared to issue anything about the time of 2nd. End of budget bill. Aren't we approaching 60 hours on this matter? While at the General Assembly, the government has such old - fashioned practices that it is not ready to set down when 2nd. Of course, the 2016 budget is a difficult thing to do but let a discussion continue and be replaced by traditional practices and such. [[The president calls.]] I'm sorry, it's Christmas Eve, and the opposition's responsibility is to determine when she's going to finish this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u89	V.E.G. President. The person here has been called many things in the past, but the night sky is completely new. It's for the history books. I was just going to make a decision to the president that we had some helpful discussions until last night. It was a happy look on every face, and we got very good speeches, good words, things explained very much, and I encourage them to continue into the night that we are facing so that people can communicate here without restraint. [[Up front.]] I expect all of us will benefit from it and find pleasure at the same time. I especially rejoiced last night that we had a good time. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson, who's come back after a short cranny. It was about his insides here last night, and I look forward to having more nights to shed light on the big business we're dealing with, which is the government's budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u90	Mr. President. I come most of the time here to describe my amazing memory. I guess I thought that was it. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson was going to declare repentance for his recommendation on Björk Guðmundsdóttir. In fact, I thought he was going to do it because he's had these innuendos that the fine artist doesn't pay taxes and is dull in his eyes, as they said. I felt that instead of requiring it, there was a peak in surrealism. A senator's apologies. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir. I have to say, that's where I think it's a problem. A senator's priorities are not correct. I was very disappointed with his words here because I honestly thought he had been sorry for these innuendos. Instead, he decides to attack. Those who come together for an apology from them for their report of themselves. This is strange, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u91	A respectable president. The situation at the council today is entirely at the order of the council, for in this house there is no way of improving the spirit of activity. In other words, making problems with indiscriminateness and thumbiness without cause is creating a problem. That's why the Senate's going to put an end to this. I completely refuse that the government is responsible for the situation in this house now. It's nothing to be owed to the Congress and to the presidents sitting here, yes, as if a stone's night on a chair.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u92	A respectable president. I have been at a council during the third year, and in some way I have worked nearly all the members of the council here, 62, either on committees, on extracurricular activities, or on foreign level. The group that works here is really nice and smart. There's a lot of sensible, honest, hardworking people here who want to get along well with Iceland. But what happens when we enter this blessed Assembly Hall? It's just that people change from what they really are in their hearts and into something else. I'm really sorry to see this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u93	President. As a president is known as well as many members of the council I spoke to, an office manager of the council, I was very upset when I was sitting next to Jón Gunnarsson's son and did everything I could to be moved. I often didn't want to go to work because I felt so bad next to this man, so they say that. A lot of people know that. I had received it from the General's office manager that I could move if I could find someone else who wanted to sit next to it. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson and not one senator wanted to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u94	A respectable president. Well, this is where it cried out. paritaprevir Sóstir Skarphéðinsson: Yes, I would have been willing to sit next to Jón Gunnarsson's son, but I was never asked. Enough about that, I'm not going to go chasing after this. Only in my comments about Björk Guðmundsdóttir, who seems to have breast-fed on many. They've come to you because of Björk's recommendation for Prime Minister and Secretary of finance, where she calls the hillbillies who want to dig up Iceland's highlands. For that reason, I said that I readily admitted that I did not understand anything in this woman. The council would surely be no worse if there were others with the country man's thinking. The conclusion of the climate convention encourages us to make wise use of our country's energy resources for increased valuables. Their use will provide a solid foundation for Icelandic society, an opportunity to do so much better in many areas. I don't expect Björk to cover them with scales. There is now a possibility that she is its opponent, or does she pay taxes and fees in Iceland? Ask anyone who doesn't know. I have no idea if she does. I've never seen her on a tax file on a list of high taxpayers. And then I say she's rather deaf to her eyes behind the mask. These are the serious and disparagingly comments I'm supposed to have made about the listakona Björk Guðmundsdóttir I respect and the work she's done for our country on the international scale. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] However, that these people are not to be answered when they choose to speak down to the national prime minister and financial minister in the way they do in this interview - we must answer for these people. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u95	A respectable president. I can't quite figure out what the problem is, what's going on here. ... anticoagulation. We're here to discuss the budget, and I don't know that everything is done to give her the time she needs. We spend the night working on a day so you can talk about the budget, and then you're prepared to hold 40 minutes of speeches and not mention the budget. [[For example: What do you mean?]] The others are only put out, Prime Minister, they are being set out for ministers and senators, so there is nothing other than the law of the law. [[Paul, this is not true.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[The point is: That's right.]] We just take the time to discuss the budget. [[Up front.]] Why don't we just go talk about the budget? [[Part of these discussions.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u96	Then do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u97	What's all the fuss about? Enough is enough time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u98	It's to lie...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u99	Let's have a night and talk about the budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u100	President. I would like to read my record as a boy. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson referred to: No one living in Iceland has done as much for land as for nation and Björk. Any man who tries to do it - who froze?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u101	Me.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u102	Yeah, I'm on top of it. The minister of Gunnar Bragi snooped in jealousy when I said this, let's just hold it up. - she'll be ashamed of herself. He will never apologize for his insolence and wickedness. I had to sit next to him for a year and almost had to seek emotional help because of his rudeness. - We all know that. Who kept the council hostage repeatedly during the last session? I'm not talking about last term. - When I'm traveling around the world, everyone knows who Björk is and knows her work and our country because of her existence and her intricate works. Everyone dreams of visiting the country that created such an artist. [[The president calls.]] I always feel so touched when I listen to her music. What an artist and a natural child.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u103	Mr. President. I'm not gonna get involved in the main topic that's being discussed here, I'm gonna come up for a talk or something. paritaprevir Páll the son of J. Pálsson. Hv. A senator claimed that here they held long talks, even 40 minutes of talks, without bringing up the subject that is the financial bill. Now, in the advance group, there are many good men whom I take seriously. One of them has a snooze. paritaprevir It's Sæmundsson's stone. He held here an unforgettable speech yesterday, including Because he said that this discussion has brought much wisdom into the discussion of the budget. In other words, it was the judgment of the man who had sat here on the President and the candidate who has most observed the discussion that it was still bringing in positive information. As a matter of fact, I was able to give a 40 - minute public talk, and where was the rush? So, a senator? He wasn't at the General Assembly of the Icelanders. He wasn't doing his job. Where was it? A senator when the senators talked here about the budget bill yesterday? [[The president calls.]] He wasn't at his job. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u104	No matter the 4th mg. 10th par. A convergence on the length of meetings is suggested by the president that a conference can last longer today than what the Senate puts it to say. Is there a vote for this proposal made by the president? If not, she will be accepted.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u105	A respectable president. In recent days, we have witnessed the great problem of the government parties because of the position they are in when they oppose our proposal that elderly and poor people receive compensation in the same way as people in a general labour market. V.E.G. The minister of finance has faced such a dilemma in justifying this position in the federal part of the government that he has come to the extreme ice to distinguish people from work or to rely on compensation, making it necessary for those who earn money to worry about getting paid for it as much as they do. He said here yesterday morning, in response to my inquiry, that the growth of disability, for example, was an independent and specific problem and subject in Iceland, and there were all too many young men trapped outside the labour market after they had dropped out of school or got run out of work for some reason and gradually ended up in disability because of their spiritual illness. It's all true now at the highest level. Secretary of finance. But what do these facts have to do with money improving all the pensioners in the country? These facts should call for action on the part of the government to reduce social isolation and increase opportunities for education and to be active in society. But this financial bill does not take place. If you continue to pick up the numbers, then the total number of pensioners in the country is 47,700 in 2014. Of these, old - age pensioners are now more than 31,300, and microenergy pensioners are now over 16,300. All microsurgents, regardless of their physical or mental status, because of impaired development under 30 years of age, of either sex are only 1,550 people. Even if all that people for any reason, by some magical means, managed to trick themselves into the disability-fuel system, would they justify holding back the terms of all other pensioners in the country? [[The president calls.]] How sad it is when the U.S. secretary of finance bases his language on such prejudices, does the business of those who speak down public welfare services, and suggests that those who have to rely on social benefits are a burden and amputate on society! [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's sad. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u106	Mr. President. It's normal for us to be very low. Of course, when the sleeplessness starts to attract people, it is evident that the conference's talks make it happen, and I am deeply offended in times of need. The members of Congress are talking about not discussing Generals' budget as long as we are here. That's not true. But I'm going to remind you of the people outside. It's the people we're fighting for whether the government groups choose to count it in hours or anything else. These people don't eat an hour or a percent, but they're hoping to get the results we can get by talking here. A respectable president. The government said that they were going to try to activate the nation's controversies. She was going to counteract divisions and suspicions that would have marked Icelandic politics and discussions in the community for some time. That I don't think she is doing, not at all, and I'm pretty sure that a lot of people agree with me. The president is not a rookie at the council, and he knows that we need to sit down and talk. It is up to him to determine if it is best to do so on the Memorial or New Year's Day. It is the government that needs the approval of the U.S. government's financial laws. It is in the hands of a president to make sure that the council serves properly. To argue that the members of Congress that here speak the most of all are not doing their job is also wrong. It's up to us to protect what's under the law, and we don't think it's good enough. We think it needs to be fixed, and that's what we do by trying to convince people, whether they're members of the Government Party or Ministers, and that's what we do by trying to make a conversation. But as we know, this is extremely limited, since the members of the board of directors seem to be a little trapped in their seats or somewhere else than here at the council to discuss the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u107	V.E.G. President. I want to start my talk by saying something. paritaprevir The Árni Páll the son of Árnason. I'm kind of half-centered by the highest words. A financial minister who can't read in a way other than that he is arguing that those who need to rely on the social security benefits are in some way trying to establish themselves on that system. Therefore, compensation may never exceed minimum wage. I wondered: " Is it the highest? Secretary of finance trying to turn the discussion around? According to the Gallup survey conducted by the National Institute of Environment, 90% of responders believe that the low levels of pensions are not attainable and 95% of those asked in the survey are expected to increase social security benefits in the same way as under general pay paid by this year. I can only see that there is an attempt to turn the discussion into a desperate and sensibilities and gerontologists in some way suspiciously and thereby kill the debate over and try to make the most suspicious of the struggles that have taken place in this council hall, where a smaller part of the General Assembly has fought for the benefit of micro-employers and sensibilities in this year in order to become comparable to what happens in a general labour market.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u108	Mr. President. It is a peculiar atmosphere here at the General Assembly of these days, and it may not be an example or an example elsewhere, but that is how officials decide to teach us in the political opposition that things have come into their huge knot. I believe it is our job in the government opposition to protect those who may be least allowed in society. That's our job, and we who are so critical do it, even though it takes spending the day after day to stay here. We try to stand up and fight for those who need and trust us here at the council. This is where senators have taken their turn. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson and, in effect, declared that he agrees with us in the opposition that the elderly need to be corrected. I'm counting on it. A senator will continue to feel that he is not subject to obedience, and he will be the model of the members of the management team to meet us in the stand of government, to accept this discussion, and to try to get this case decent during these days before the end of the council, hopefully. We're not about to give up because I think our business is urgent. This is heavier than tears go to the highest. In this discussion, the prime minister makes a point saying that there is nothing to negotiate and the highest. A financial minister kills people together by comparing the minimum wage in the labour market with those living in pensions and disability benefits. It's the highest. Secretary of finance is not well-behaved.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u109	President. It appears that the government will fulfill its promise not to meet the elderly and desperate. It's just that way, unfortunately. It must be said that I was very disappointed when I listened to one of the most powerful men in the country, the highest. The secretary of the budget, Bjarni Benediktsson, is trying to disintegrate those with physical disability and mental disability. Tremendous victories have been made in changing attitudes and information about mental illness, spiritual chronic illness. And to suggest that it can be cured and that those who are disabilityd by spiritual diseases are unsatisfactory, unreachable, unregistered, are totally perishable. I didn't mean to believe that a minister would let that sort of thing come out of his mouth, and I hope he'll come here and explain his words, for it could not be understood in any other way. Then I want to see that the attitude of the church Hall toward those who have had long - term noncooperative activities, including heavy labour. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, they're those who have lived under it and had to move to rural areas because of the government's actions - if you've been out of work for more than 21⁄2 years - that they can only get jobs. That's the attitude. This was what Jón Gunnarsson said during the last term, when I sat next to him, and was one reason why I felt completely offended.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u110	V.E.G. President. No doubt, many have had enough discussions about the budget. Based on the mood here at the Senate Hall this morning, both in preparation for the President's conference board and on these excellent efforts for the council, you might think so. But I don't feel that way. I like the discussion. I say it right here and now, she's been really good. This is the largest policy in every government. The benefits of the conversation I would rather like to compare to a competition - and if it was, I would mean it in a positive sense, not in some measure, as it was here in yesterday's discussion. When we go down to what the lowest plan is, it wants to happen, when a game stands as high as possible, if I stick to that stuff, that reality is revealed. Outside here, there's a group of cripples who show up here every day fighting for their own. I can't believe that any man in this room is not ready to listen to them people and talk to them and look for ways to improve the interests of these people.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u111	What have you done to do so?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u112	I'm standing here, and that's what I'm talking about. It's the scene, huh? paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson. That's why I'm talking about it. What makes this matter to some extent difficult is that the situation between the two groups differs greatly. I have not yet seen enough clear information about how money can be directed to the most widely needed group.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u113	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying something different. Congress members who have expressed disillusionment and shock for the exchange of words that have already taken place during the council's work may especially say that there is nothing here to negotiate. It describes a measure of authority that I do not want to see from my highest degree. Prime Minister. I went out to speak to the representatives of the Quantum Community, who are standing on the outside, and encourage us to accept correction of their terms. I recommend that others have what they want. Congress officials go out and do the same and simply talk to these people. I understood that there were not many people who would have taken time this morning or then yesterday to talk to this social group and hear how they expect not even to celebrate Christmas. On the other hand, there is another group that I also want to draw only attention to, these are students. Now it is such a matter of growth that many people are waiting for a coming and hoping whether they will be paid out on a student's loan. Some even see the annual battle of the Icelandic Board of Students because their study does not depend entirely on the regulations and regulations set out by LIN, e.g. that studies cannot be done two things; LIN has strict requirements for this. There are many students who even see the need to handle either the bank's edge or borrow from Mom and Dad, something we need to consider. We need to consider this learning loan system that challenges people to being able to work only for 1 billion. K. At the same time, we have a special policy. Where do people get money? I'm just asking. We need to review our understanding of our overall agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u114	A respectable president. I have noticed that when it comes to discussions about the length of meetings and how the meetings are being conducted, they are generally in favor of long conference meetings that do not seem to take seriously reasons like them that people need to sleep before they need to be called the following day. Now I understand how tempting it is to boast that getting up early and working long and always be ready to work 24 hours a day or something like that, but that does not change the fact that it is not a reasonable arrangement. There is a reason why the general labour market does not work that way, both because of a struggle over history and because it simply does not make sense. It's not wise to be at a meeting until the end of the week. 3 a.m. and then go to the committee at 3 a.m. At 8.30 the next day. This does not make sense; it does not make sense to concentrate; it does not make sense to do so. But, unfortunately, with the arrangement we have here, it seems necessary to have it like this. The fact that this is both unwise and unnecessary tells us that it is not in order. No one should be surprised at the situation that has come up today, but it has often been more difficult over the years. Actually, nothing special is going on here unless, in the sense, it's unusual if something is unusual, considering what I've had to get to know here in my short career. And certainly, calm compared with the situation during the last term, although circumstances were more understandable, after collapse, and all. I suggest that since we keep arguing about things like the length of a meeting meeting, about things that shouldn't be an issue, we'll start to look into how we work here. It's not a matter of the amazing coincidence that the 60th Council's aquifers are either awesome or pathetic, or the 40% of the Council's acquiescary. This is a deeper problem than that. It's a systematic problem that concerns Congress and that I want to refer to a constitution. We're supposed to look there for solutions to this problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u115	V.E.G. President. A new agreement on climate in Paris is designed to arouse optimism. There, several hundred of the world's greatest executives met, and it became a goal to keep the warming that is evident in the coming decades around one and a half degrees. This is a very lofty goal, and there is much left. Each person in his own home needs to develop and plan how to achieve this goal. I don't think there'll be much of a problem for them, if they're sincere in what they signed in Paris, they'll agree with it. What I would like otherwise is that this contract is a natural product of a multi-year contract process that requires a lot of work. Our Environment and Resource Ministry is a small service like many others here, and this work has rested on the shoulders of a few people, not only to support Iceland's interests, but to provide specific tasks or goals for which Iceland speaks, such as the recovery of wetlands and carbon bonds both in the earth and in the forests. I think it is a special reason to congratulate the Environment and Resource Minister for the group that has been behind her in this negotiation and that I must mention two names there have stood at the front of the section The Ólafsson of the Office, who was the chairman of our embassy at the Paris Climate Conference, and Stefán StewartEinarsson who went in front of the peer in this important matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u116	A respectable president. Now, I'm going to change my subject and turn to the lack of control over the government on transport and electronics. We saw in the media a recent interview with the president of the Landsnet, which resulted in the recent collapse of 30 Mothers of Landnet into the great storm that struck the country. Most of the damage to the West has resulted in the loss of electricity and is now being dosed and run into the system using diesel engines and reserve power stations where repair is not completed. The director of Landsnet saw a reason to call attention to what the company has actually been pointing to for many years, the importance of strengthening the transport system. He pointed to Landsnet's suggestion to put lines through the animal tunnel then and when it becomes reality. Of course, when the phenomenon arises, there will be a revolution in the electricity sector because the lines will thus have been protected from the violent storms that cross the deserts and mountains in such cases. The General has determined a policy for straddling the earth so that there should be no barrier to this. Of course, when it becomes evident that plans for animal tunnels will not be realized until first of 2017, when they are to take out the tunnel, they must draw thought and attention. They've been ready for tenders for more than five years. What are we waiting for when it comes to the fact that two birds can be struck in one blow, solved with the most spectacular cohesion problems, and greatly improved facilities not only by energy transport but also by all the living conditions in the area? [[The president calls.]] It's an indifference that I find perfectly reprehensible and a reason for speaking under this point.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u117	A respectable president. First, I'd like to say that it's completely unpleasant when it's due. Councilmen like what? paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir, a senator of Pirata, comes on a talk chair earlier and specifically mentions that I had the impression that the elderly and the desperate could just start working. I never said that. It's completely unbearable, and it's bound to be taken up on the Presidency Committee. But I'm going to talk about everything else here. This morning's newspaper reports that negotiations with the Russians about our fishing in the Barents have failed, i.e. They have postponed all decisions until February at the same time as they have recently made agreements with both the Faeroes and the Greenlandians. In London's recent negotiations at the end of November about mackerel, Norwegian-island, and coal mines, Icelanders were given no offer from these people we're dealing with. Of course, it seems that in all this process, the Faeroes have failed the offer they brought to us, and then they didn't support us during the negotiations after seeking our help and for themselves a contract. I don't think this attitude is completely unacceptable, and the situation is very serious. I believe, at this critical point, it is time to revise our agreement with the Faustians and the Norwegians on mutual fishing grounds. I believe we have the two-sided talks that are ahead of us Hodgeers cutting off the fishing warrants they have in Icelandic jurisdiction. I don't think we're supposed to allow the Norwegians in the future to catch furrows while there's a conflict in Icelandic jurisdiction, but they haven't stuck in their own jurisdiction for the past 15 years. I believe we are expected to adopt two - sided talks with the Greenlands at this time. At the same time, I feel lonely under these circumstances that we reexamine our stand for a business venture with Russia. This is of utmost importance to us, and it has serious consequences for many of the country's settlements and nationalities in general that we should not be able to put aside the products and maintain the markets we have in recent decades worked in Russia. [[The president calls.]] Based on the way things have developed in this field, I believe we have to break here in a magazine.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u118	A respectable president. I'm often surprised at the council's work, and I'm not going to make a big difference in the record class. This must be done between the great goats themselves. However, the time has come for the Senate's measure of prowess to be measured by the crowning of the symposium, which is less discussed on committees or with voters, who do not seem to be as remarkable as the standards. That I know that the work of the council has reduced my strength and satisfaction throughout the autumn. I've put in three Senate hearing proposals and one song bill. The oldest of these issues will be three years in a few weeks, and the rest of them are all two years old and have not been discussed in the council. At the same time, the pro board has not been meeting for weeks. For days the Senate's work has been handling such issues as the development of a research agency and selling alcohol at a grocery store, a language I don't hear in the community find pleasure in talking about, or that anyone feels that there is reason to talk about except in this house. The four humble cases I have tried have been prepared by a large group of people who have been interested in them, and beyond that, the members of the council have helped me in that work. I have made it a point of the House of Parliament and a council meeting to adopt these matters. The next year, three years will have passed since I proposed the first matter, which was a minor synopsis proposal for a slyness index. I have to say, for now, that I'm inclined to give up these matters and not waste my time on them, and I'm content to avoid getting my affairs discussed for years. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u119	Madam President. My involvement with other members of the United Nations General Assembly at the United Nations Climate Conference in Paris last week is with the greatest joy I've ever had and the greatest joy I've had since my involvement in politics. The result is victory and a stunning conclusion that everyone can be pleased with, that the world that wins with this conclusion, and how happy it is to have been allowed to come into contact with the work that was in the lead to the agreements that were reached this weekend. However, it is a bit frustrating to say that the ambitions of Iceland and the Icelandic government in these matters make me feel very limited and that there is a measure of modesty that goes out of place, according to my opinion. Of course, Iceland will expand its strategy on climate, but there may be some evidence of how unmarked the aims or ambitions of the government are in these areas. At the beginning of the week, a minister of the Environment says that it is difficult to determine the changes in Icelandic companies and the public to achieve their own goals. I think there is reason to encourage all of us to develop such activities and to reason on certain ideas that could make our goals clearer and ambitious, as it were, that we are going to pursue a lack of carbon energy, such as. Sweden has done so by 2050. Then we could take the city of Ghent in our Belgium as a model who has declared that one day a week is a non-fat day; Iceland could become the first country to declare that on one day a week no meat or aim is to reduce the consumption of meat. [[The president calls.]] God knows that it would be good for many of us here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u120	A respectable president. In the fall of the fall, three years had passed since the collection of land that took place in RUS by the campaign on all the lips of three nuclear women that were behind to set up the Service Center Guided by children with rare, serious, and incurable diseases. In one day, there were no more than 70 million gathered. K. The work has grown and prospered, and now more than 70 of the nation's weakest children are enjoying the ministry of Leadership and their families. When men started to set up this course of service for such sick children who are now allowed to stay in their homes instead of being in hospital all their life, I was amazed that assistance with these families in this form would not be part of the country's basic welfare services. The late Guðbjartur Hannesson, ex-fiancée. A health and welfare minister, provided us, a team on this matter, made a statement that once the collection money was done, the official would accept the cylinder after the most reliable investigation. The good news now is that the Ministry of Health or Health will receive the operation from year to year. Am I, and others who are doing this will be very grateful to the present. Healthcare Minister Kristján Þór Júlíusson for this, and I know that the operation will continue to grow and thrive. Moreover, I would like to honor the memory of the Guðbjartur - given son of Hannesson for giving us this promise that will now be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u121	Madam President. I'm going to talk about Land Hospital. Next year, under the financial bill, there is going to be a trial cut at the Land Hospital ▪ College Hospital, the largest institution of the medical system and the Icelandic state. A emergency and life-saving service is being provided at the National Hospital. He's a teaching hospital and a local hospital for the capital area. They need money next year to meet the increased need to serve, raise remunerations for collective agreements, and most essential maintenance. The Union, V.G., a bright future, and the Piranos suggest that guards provide less than 3 billion in meeting this urgent need. We in the United States also want to secure the construction of the New Hospital and expand its role. We want the Landspians to be responsible for providing expert services in the country, but today people in the country are receiving specialist medical advice when the doctors are suitable rather than in accordance with local needs. We in the United States reject the development of health care systems for special interests of certain health groups. We all own our health systems together. It's supposed to be in the best order, serving us all regardless of our economic status. The first step is to provide sufficient resources for the hospital next year. Among other things, the position of the memory of the part of the council in this financial debate is about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u122	Mr. President. The discussion that has been presented in these last days on the budget has been both enjoyable and perfunctory. I don't think I've participated in a discussion that has been as lively as any person's argument about the value of the budget as well as some of the suggestions presented here. I would especially like to thank you at the beginning of my talk. The members of the management team, as usual, have participated in the discussion, and many people have given me very fine talks that have informed me of the situation, not only about their positions but also gave me new light on various subjects that we have discussed. I miss looking over this well - arranged hall that I'm not the reason. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson because I was going to commend him for a talk he gave a few days ago. As I tried to do in my speech on Saturday, he killed on various factors that have not been discussed here. I specifically mention the housing issues that I consider very important and completely lacking to be discussed here in the discussion. Likewise, I mention the fiber - optic barrier that I felt was a struggle for. A senator, and in fact, a man. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson, discuss in a very positive and informative way. Third, there's a problem. A senator a few words, just like me on Saturday, about one of the big cases missing entirely in this bill's vision, the case of the elderly in the future. Happily, the nation is spreading health technology, and we all live longer, grow older, and thus have a higher quality of life. However, that means that soon the group over 80 years of age will grow very quickly, which in effect means that we have to take care of the unstealed matters and build at least every year that corresponds to a half of a nursing home so that my generation and others close to my age can suffer well in our old age. For this, I was going to commend him. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson, of course, is no more here than many of the members of the board. This financial bill has been hard to deal with, and not unforeseeable, Mr. President. Of course, it is because now a financial bill is being presented in the setting where the work of the former government, fine jobs of this government, has been built by what the governor of the Lands Bank has called blues. Under such circumstances, it could be taken care of if the government's income stocks were strengthened and used to pay down the significant debt that has not been paid in the past by that government and to attack the need to meet an accumulated investment in the interiors of the state. These are the issues that have been under, of course, because we have a special situation. This is the first financial bill that is put forward when Iceland is fully out of the crisis that has been in common with us for the past seven years working against. The discussion has also been made up of the fact that this is a table for, or should be, the government's setting has brought in more detailed suggestions on changing the budget than ever before. It has also shown how they can be financed. None of these suggestions have been obtained in the eyes of the administrative body; none of the administrative parts have made a sound here to discuss one of the 33 anti - government proposals. This is, in effect, the essence of the debate at the council, i.e. The loss of the management sector towards the smaller parts. Well, you could say that it crystals here yesterday when it was the highest. The prime minister literally roared over the world of Congress to see that he would not be written into the budgetary bill. How can it be, Mr. President, that when the government's leading force presents 33 well prepared proposals, the bigger part and the highest. The prime minister is not prepared to discuss one of them? I think this is because over the last few years there has been an extremely sad development that is at the root of the situation that is repeatedly created in the Allied Council of Irons. I call this the promotion of the Ministers. I know I don't have to think about it for the highest. The president that one of the things that we were literally directed by the Generals' research committee to learn from the collapse was that the council would take on greater authority, that it would be separated from the preceding Ministership of ten years before. Soon the council succeeded. The General Assembly became much more independent, had a stronger influence on budgets, and bowed down to the authority of the European Commission. That's why I agree. paritaprevir The Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson to the position that appears repeatedly at the International Parliament can be attributed to the constitution. There is a need to sharpen the three - part arrangement of authority in the community. You have to make it absolutely clear that it's a reminder to the legislature. They can't come here and cover the council on their dirty shoes like the highest. The prime minister does when he passes over the council that his will is ignored, not listening to what might come to the conclusion of the council. This is what I'd like to say, Mr. President, at the beginning of my speech. Some argue that members of the Parliament use their freedom of speech to handle matters that are important in the community. I say for myself that I'm not going to give the highest. Prime Minister orders me, order me to hold my peace just because he who does not want to come to the council is not suitable for his duties. Here's what we got. A member of the council was to raise questions to the secretary and representative of the European Commission. And what has been the result? What happened yesterday when it happened? paritaprevir The Ögmundur of Jónasson's son demanded the highest order. A minister of education would attend a council to discuss the subject of the State Radio? Yeah, at some point in the middle of the night, it got to the top of it. A minister of education, but he thundered in his seat, disrespecting the council to answer in no one single question that was directly addressed to him. Hv. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir threw to him three clear, specific questions, and none of them answered. How many tops do we see? Minister of Ministers now? No one. Not one of the highest. Ministers are willing to conduct their panel duties here and participate in discussions about the part of the budget that concerns the sector. It's the highest. Health Minister still in the days? Has it been seen here in the last days? Yes, he threw in his beautiful Norwegian nose yesterday, but otherwise he hasn't been here. V.E.G. A health minister has been busy going to such shelters that there is no radar available in the whole world that can find him for the General Assembly of the Icelanders. He's afraid of the discussion. However, the issues that have been under and most of the controversy are about just him and his party. Three cases make it difficult for the government to give up the discussion that she has had here. I could add that, Mr. President, to the point. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, who never does this for lack of time, is shown at the Senate Hall when it comes to the budget bill, also, did not take part in discussing the budget bill yesterday. The person who demanded a night meeting so that the budget could be held in his home, slept in his green ear, did not hesitate to care for his duties. Thus, her respect for what is going on here is respected. Mr. President. I was there in my speech that three lawsuits under here had really set people on fire. That is, first of all, the state radio matters that have not been discussed here at the highest level. Secretary of education. It's the land hospital's business. The members of the board seem so embarrassed by the response that they do not engage in the discussion. Hv. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson, whom I have praised for his conversation during the day, however, has not been very perplexing when he has written about the Land Hospital and has given the wrong number, so it is heartwarming to know that when we talk about the matter. Every member of Congress on these matters leaks from the hall. There are not a few of the men who have taught false information about the Land Hospital because they are afraid to come here and stand for their claim. Hv. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson, for example, said in a publicist yesterday that there had been a 30% increase in donations to the National Hospital from 2012 to 2015. This is wrong. There is no evidence that these elevations occurred. Of course, since the time we were bloody above our shoulders in the middle of surgery, there has been an increase, sire. Then Iceland had no choice. Then, in the face of grueling financial difficulties, people had to resort to extremely difficult measures. In some cases, it was not an easy trip to the Generals' platform to defend these measures. So there was not as much pleasant a discussion as there was when there was room for blues to show. That's right. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson's son said that the contributions have indeed increased from the bottom, but far from saying that they have increased by 30%. Well, maybe now it's a good time to have a good time. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson is a good arithmetic, but I'll lead him to the math account of a professor who was published in the same media as he published his nonsense a few days ago. You should be right, Mr. President. The modern government has certainly dealt well with the restoration of the Land Hospital, but it is a major factor in what it needs to be. When we took up the difficult cuts at the Land Hospital, it was always prejudicial that the year - old government, us, or others, would attack building the hospital. It hasn't happened properly. Today, when the director of the National Hospital came to the head of the budget board and received the disgrace and a considerable discussion, it was natural. The chairman of the legal committee for a perpetual reproach, he showed that it was a very strong argument that it needed 2.9 billion to stay gone from last year. On the other hand, there is a gallop of reasoning. A chairman of a budget board like a snorkeling water from a goose. This has proved true in our case. True, budgets for management during 2015 are 11% lower than they were during the past year before collapse, i.e. 2008. The price at that time is 5.2 billion when considering the major projects that have been taken to the Land Hospital between these years, 2008, and 2015. If we just look at the budget ourselves according to our status, then 3.5 billion will be needed, i.e. They are 7% lower than they were on solid prices in 2008. The 2016 financial bill does not indicate any change in this position. Yet, things have changed since then. Since 2008 the population of the capital area has increased by 6.7%. Of these, the number of people 70 years of age and older has increased by 13.2%, and this is the proportion of people who need the most care. Of course, as their number increases, dyspnoea increases more in the hospital. At 80 years of age and older, the most needy patient in the hospital has increased by almost 20%. In whole, the population has increased by 4.3%. It may also be that by this time, the number of tourists in Iceland has increased by nearly a million. It has been calculated that this is the equivalent of an average of 1,59550 you have. Iceland had a population rise. In a country of 330 you. It's important to a man. The health - care costs have increased substantially because they are growing rapidly with increasing age. Consequently, the incidence of chronic illness has increased substantially and the need for service as well. When this is taken into consideration, it can be shown by accurate calculation that 2.9 billion are needed that the Landskeeper receive what he needs into his business. That's what I'd like to talk to you about. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson because he was the only senator in this discussion. Of course, he's like the other members of the government that you would like to have at a word place. Where is it? paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son, who has bubbled out in the last days, breast-fed for a special performance. Governments to the Elderly and Despair? Hv. paritaprevir Brynjar the son of Níelsson have repeatedly defended the government's conduct and fraud toward older ones and micropunchers by the fact that their former government was so poor. Certainly it is true, as I have already said, that the first government was due to the terrible circumstances in which she took over the years of independence and forwarding, to cut down considerably. What did we do about older ones and micropunchers? Yes, what we did was to protect those who were on the edge. Not only that, but they also raised the straddling criteria and the survival insurance it had built on it. Of course, the other is absolutely accurate, as we have seen, that there was an increase in the number of declines and changes to the prospects they were before Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, the then social minister, reduced the number of people who have never been made most of the time. But all we did was bring it back to what was best before the crisis. The important thing was that those who had no income from pensions, no earnings, remained intact. Not enough of that, as I said, but kept the living insurance on the price. And how was this 2011, Mr. President, when a bargain was made in the middle of the year? At that time, the increase was transferred directly to the basics. At the same time, a general labour market was negotiated about 51 of you. K. $1.4. What did the company of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir do? Yes, the poor and the elderly were given it in a way that did not go wrong. While it does not agree with the fact that, on the other hand, there is a gaping collapse, no human can come here and say that the former government has not spent the worst. It was her vehicle through. What has the present government done about the elderly? People come here and be proud, beating their breasts over their voice, and being generous toward the aged and the poor. What does this speech involve? What does being generous involve? What has happened to elderly ones in the past in this government? It turns out they got a lousy $10,000 when taxes are taken into account. What do all those who have brought their eyes here say with blue stares and promise to work hard for the poor? Hv. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson, boy. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson, who was here a few minutes ago talking about how he wanted to contribute, where are they? They dare not even sit under this speech because they are ashamed of the only thing they have done for the elderly and the desperate is give them a lousy ten thousand. What else have they done? Yes, older and poorer people are the only group in Iceland that can't get a back - up rise. Although there was an increase at the beginning of this year and although there was an increase in the beginning of the next year, this does not change because they are the only group that has not had any increase in this year. Great is the shame of the senators responsible for this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u123	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson for a powerful speech, and especially will I agree with his concluding words in his speech. I've found it rather strange to sit under some debates. Councilmen who talk about doing all they want to do for the elderly and disability other than when it comes to the practitioner, i.e. to vote here in this room so the elderly and the poor get real dressbacks, make all the money down, and nothing is made of, and they don't pay votes which are basically meant to improve the quality of these groups, as they did in vote 2rd. of budgets that were just voted that these groups should receive their paybacks. Thank you. A senator in particular once again for bringing in this matter, for it is very strange to observe this procedure. All right, so I believe quite that snooze. Though these groups have not seen a direct location in the way they conduct their votes at the General Assembly, members of the Parliament want to improve their terms. Now, however, when the big plan is considered, when the government's future plans for the next year are considered, the policy is to reduce the activities of the combination. Is this not an aspect that we should discuss even more? Councilmen, i.e. how do they feel it is possible to improve the terms of these groups but plan at the same time to reduce the affairs of the State? [[The president calls.]] Well, maybe. A senator would help me just to shed light on this?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u124	Mr. President. No, I can't help you. A senator on that. I had more hope of death than that. paritaprevir The Brynjar of Níelsson's son would not be here when I gave a speech because we've had a place of words from our seats because of it. A senator is a good candidate, and he has expressed his opinion most by his superiors. But he's not here today. I expected that. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson, who cried in the public chair earlier, said that he would feel bad about the way he has treated the elderly and the desperate, would be in the audience. I was expecting what? paritaprevir Willum Þór Þórsson, who declared that he wanted to put his weight on the scales, simply did not know how, to improve the interests of the elderly and the poor. I thought these were gonna blow. People would be here to talk with them, but they do not have the courage to come. They are too cowardly to discuss this face - to - face, and they disappear when it comes to material discussions. Why? Because they know that they cannot resist the evidence. So I'm gonna have to grieve. A senator by which I don't know any way to get these things to work. Senators in this room. Yet, it can be. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson is a brave man and he sits here, although his countenance is after this morning. But even he, the wealthy man, had no intention of discussing the issues of the elderly and the desperate in this morning, so much is certain. [[...I've got a speech later...]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u125	I have a speech later, just listen to her.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u126	Yeah, I'm listening to every speech. I do my job, but I don't get out of a Senate hall like any senators who apparently come here just to say what they think, but I don't have the courage to stand up for it. But that will never be said of what. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson says he can't take it. In his due time, he too will be dealt with with with with with successfully. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. A senator who says I don't know the way. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u127	V.E.G. President. No, praying may be asking a little. A member of the government side to describe the thoughts or intentions of other members of Congress. Each one of us can, as it were, speak for himself. On the other hand, I want to keep talking about it. A senator on the long - term plan and how a community can be advanced. I noticed why. At the beginning of his talk, a senator made it clear that there was no room to pay off debts. In fact, in the early stages of this discussion, we have discussed that it is extremely shocking that huge changes are being made in the discussion. We called after them a few days ago and said that there was good reason to interrupt the discussion to cover things properly and to see just how they stand when these big numbers are combined, such as thinking for a crew contract with a forgotten teacher. Similarly, this agreement was made between state and rural society, which is said to cost about 1.5 billion. Whatever it is. Councilmen have agitated that this means that government funds may be turned over just right on the right side of zero, so we are not about to pay off debt now. Then there's the future project at the highest level. The government has the intention of reducing the activities of co-administration. Counts 'em out. A senator can do this together? Can we pay off debts? Can we improve the quality of a pensioner? Can we strengthen our health care with this long - term credit for the money? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u128	Mr. President. I gave a 40 - minute talk Saturday to show that the big lines displayed in this financial bill are not paying down a significant debt and at the same time the combination is being reduced. I'm not surprised. We're gonna go for a second. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon pointed this out. paritaprevir Last year, Bjarnadóttir and probably more were chosen when we discussed the national budget until 2018, rather than earlier this year. That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. It is clear that the government was headed for both. First of all, it showed that a significant payment on a worthy debt should not be made. At the same time, it was totally clear that neither was it meant to increase the amount of alcohol taken together. Now it's a question of why. paritaprevir The Árnadóttir Þóra Aarnadótir how I like the tin. I don't like her enough. This is because we are now in the blues of goodness, which hopefully lasts a little longer, but we don't make use of the government's resources. This is evident in many places in the committee's list of parts, of course, that this year's debt is not being paid off. Second, considering what the majority themselves say, there is no chance that there will be a subsidence in the next three years. The government is missing out on a golden opportunity to do two things, creating expirations to pay off anonymous debt, thereby reducing the State's interest charges and using the benefits of investments in major community infrastructure projects. In spite of this, the government in the blues is providing only 10 billion rest, which, in fact, reduces almost 50 percent of the debates due to changes in the budget. This makes it the third year in a row that this government keeps only an equation. Prior to that, a government served as five consecutive years to improve the state's office. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator can see where this will develop. [[The president calls.]] That's not a good way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u129	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Aphrodinsson is one of the few people who have talked about education and culture in their talks on the budget. I'd like to start by thanking him for that, but now, the state radio issue is very upset, and the Secretary of Education has been informed in the media that he does not get a bill out of the government. The Government Board was informed last April that the Ministry of Education expected the bill to leave the government, and he knew at least from the support of three Ministers to the bill at that time, i.e. Secretary of education, secretary of finance, and prime minister. What would have happened since then? Has the highest. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. Secretary of finance change their mind? Or could it be that prime minister and financial minister had come to a smaller extent in their own government? Hv. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson is an experienced man, has served as a government minister. How does this look upon him, and what does the senator feel this will mean?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u130	Mr. President. Governmentally, this has led to a position that is unacceptable to the highest level. Secretary of education. He has informed us that he has shaped policy in the affairs of one of the department's most important agencies. He has put that policy before the government, and it turns out that within the government, he does not have the support of policy. In this case, he really has no Mexican option except to resign. That's how I look at it. I'm telling you, he's been staring at rocks completely. Of course it can. A minister will continue if he wishes, but this is a key question to consider that this is what, by permission of the Supreme Court. The president is usually called a ◯cabinet-plan. V.E.G. A minister is not accepted in this situation. However, not all growls have gone to the grave. We still haven't finished 2. It is possible to get to the highest level. Minister must be brought to shore before the 3rd. End. I wouldn't be surprised, first of all, because it's a big deal, second of all, because it's a key office and third, it's been repeated by key members of the Agency, which they can't easily run from. Last year, for example, this program of public speakers left behind. paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason in his discussion of the state's financial status, with permission of the President: The panel has always wanted to protect the State Radio, stand by the State Radio, and we believe the Kingdom News is a very important media medium. The government radio serves a public service role and cultural role... All three of these are of utmost importance. Hv. paritaprevir For a few weeks ago, Daðason Dadson made this same discourse with the permission of a president: ▪ Mein's personal opinion, and the long - term opinion of the Frustration Party, has been that it is important to have a national radio as a powerful cultural media medium. [[The president calls.]] In other words, w. paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason is chairman of the Parliamentary Party and cannot run from this declaration of support to the State Radio.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u131	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson for an honest answer. I agree with him, it is an unacceptable position for a minister of the government not to succeed through the government of the policies he himself represents, has stressed and presented publicly. It is worth considering that the directors of the government are putting the Minister into this position. On the other hand, it is acting studies that may not be appropriate for us to think seriously about the scene. Here's the budget for the discussion and state radio status. How does the state radio feel about the situation? A senator in view of the fact that this bill is most likely not involved and that the radio rate will not be the target? We know that the State Radio is stuck with a heavy pension commitment to which it was left when it was converted to an official community about a year ago. This has proved to be a very serious problem with the State Radio operation. All of these measures destabilize the Agency, which, in spite of all of them, seems to be doing quite well in turning defensive. How do we view the situation of this important cultural institution? In view of what now seems to be happening, what is being done by the Ministry of Education?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u132	When the Minister does not achieve a policy regarding a key agency, he is hardly cut off in the government anymore. Then he has become what is sometimes called in English, by permission of presidents of the United States of America, has become the subject of aapprehensibly English language. I'll review a recent example. When it seemed as if I couldn't establish my policy on developing cooperation in the past government, I went to Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, then prime minister, and told her that I would no longer sit in her government. The consequences of their course and actions must be met. You don't sit as ministers just to collect your pay and be a member of the government. There are people there to follow a certain course of action. As for the future of State Radio, I think, as I said before, this case is not over. If the government doesn't come to the top of the government in any way. Rather, the minister of education leaves him on the line, after he has been informed that he has pledged to the representatives of the State's Radio for bringing this issue through, would it really be the same as getting him out of the government? It's the same thing as writing him off. I don't think that's gonna happen. I don't think that's what it's all about. On the one hand, I'd also like to say that the State Radio, of course, needs to be revised and reevaluated. Despite this situation, I don't have the anxiety for the future of a cultural institution that I believe it will suffer irreparably. In spite of everything, I feel that there is so much vitality and vitality in her employees and so much affection for them on the part of the nation that she will never be asked for by tribalism.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u133	President. I'd like to spend some time with the state radio position of my talk. The Agency's position is peculiar, both in business and in internal position, but much less is the most unusual political situation that has developed in connection with the minister of the jury repeatedly, which was in front of only plans written in public discussion but then took the form of a bill that would fall from the radio charge that comes on the day to sit in government. We have at times pondered the political situation that arises when such conflicts occur within the government and when the government's policies are not supported and how this will affect the position of the minister. Then I think it is good to also mention what happened here at the last council when, if I remember correctly, the income worm was taken in advance, all the financial issues were taken in advance from the Congress of the Agency. Everyone who has observed politics in Iceland and elsewhere in the countries around us knows that if the budget is weak, the government is weak. The political memento, which the forwarding team gave by general warning on the budget and financial matters, sent a political message that the government does not fully support one of the administrations. This led to considerable contributions between the administrations, as the result was that food taxes were reduced from plans of 12% to 11%, and financial ministers reported something they called all counter measures. Hv. A senator and head of the Economic and Business Committee, Frosti Sigurjónsson, joined a group of skeptics at that time and actually went so far as to say that the counter-arguments would have to be so powerful that the result would be that the measures would improve for all community groups. This he repeatedly put in the media and in the public talk, i.e. that the increase in food taxes and counter measures would be not just to the most efficient groups, but to ensure that the counterweight measures would be sufficiently strong for no one to take a cut off. What was presented in this section was primarily twofold, on the one hand, a 1 billion - to - increase child improvement, and 400 million in interest. This led to the forwarding team of candidates for counterwarming action and to the green button in payment, believing that they had been convinced that the counterweight measures were mild enough. Now, on recovery and processing of budgets, it has been reported that of the 1 billion in child damages, 600 million have been withdrawn because the thresholds proved to be effective and were not changed. The same thing happens in terms of growth, with these 400 million turning 200 million, 200 walking back to the state's budget, so that of the 1,400 million are back 800, and after that, there are 600 million who are then the counterrequisite measures considered by the movers. I have not heard any candidate want this discussion to be reactivated, nor have the candidates who said that all the tenths of the community should come out better from the postoperative procedure, follow it better than before. I feel totally lost, and I mention this here because a similar situation has come up, even though it is about one particular matter, which is the highest position. The Minister of Education and Culture is already in place when the bill for the fall from the decrease in the radio charge is fixed in the government. What does that mean? What does it mean to have a case in the government? Let me remind you that when we're talking about these less than 400 million that we're not talking about uncivilized payments from the state fund, we're talking about a further $1,700. Instead of becoming 16,400, the public pays away 1,400 bucks. More each year to the State Radio, and they go to the agency without charge. Since there is no damage to the operation, this is primarily a political stand on the State Radio that has had to live in the annual development since this government began. When the Minister cannot establish such an important policy through a government in which he is in question, he may have a position to present any case. It was interesting when the highest. A minister came to meet with the General on our request, which was enjoyable because there were others in the council hall who were not shown up, that he did not engage in objections or talks or conversations with members of the council. In talks presented here, the highest. A minister made it clear to the council that there will be a change in proposals both for the income video and for the financial bill where these sums will be present, i.e. In a material sense, the Council will have the opportunity to take sides with the members of the same organization as those who sit firm in the government. It is a bit unfashionable that the Minister has repeatedly given up his position and the situation with the media, last in seven news reports last night, but has not since the hearing began in the discussion here and discussed the case with the Council. When it comes to such conflicting matters and we know that the matter is supported by the government opposition, that the matter could even be a majority of support if the Minister has any support in the administration categories, that might be sufficient, I feel that the minister does not discuss the situation at the General Assembly. It is clever to have him here silent in the Ministry class during this discussion, as it happened here, at a non-Christian time of all the standards between two and three in the night. But this is the situation, and I wanted to explain under this discussion that a change in proposal is on the way and it deals with the same factors as those locked up in the government so that it's the highest level. The minister here has allies in his position, and then he can join us in gathering forces in the councilroom and vote for the hearing to waive the budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u134	President. Hv. A senator introduced something of great importance, and I would like to first mention the Minister's bill that the radio fee will be what it has been. It is true that the amount of radio pay is the same, so they are not talking about the increase in income, so it is not going to be about the funds already in the state funds, so to speak, when it comes to talking about these funds to the State Radio. It's in the government now, as they say. The government is not a multi-organized government but each minister is responsible for his own cause, and I wonder how other ministers can say to the minister responsible for a lawsuit that he cannot do what he intends to do. I would have thought natural that it would happen before the council, and then it would be discovered that the Minister did not have the backing of a government body. However, it is quite clear that he has the support of all the government opposition to this case, or I suppose, so it is very strange that he is taken in such a government contractor and he forbids to submit the bill for which the probability is greater. I'd like to ask you what. A senator would agree with what was said earlier, that the minister would not be pleased if it became evident. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u135	President. It is absolutely clear that according to all the conventional analyses of political status that have come up, the minister's position is very weak. It's not like it's any matter on the Minister's Congress List. This is a matter that he has spoken very strongly and that he will work at it. It is not simple to imagine how a minister should stand down if this is being choked in the government and found any means of not completing a vote here or claiming that there is something different in the matter than what a minister is doing. I know it myself by my being in the government, although it has been in many ways during the last term, that, of course, it happens to be in the government between meetings, natural. While there is no multi-organized administration, as the senator points out, there are intersects, bills, or suggestions that come from stewards against and touch other ministers in some way. We can name travel, water issues, energy issues, or something that truly comes on the table of more ministers. I'd also like to mention a case like a whale, which you might think in advance was a lawsuit that was heard under the Environment Ministry, which is under the seabed. There may be times when this matter has to be discussed between a government meeting. It is as clear that the matter is responsible for the minister's responsibility as for the normal developments, he is allowed to bring the case to the Generals, where the government is not a multi-organized government. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u136	President. The true face of the government, the right government so called, is always more clearly evident. She does not hesitate to reduce the sum of large companies that are doing well, to reduce the sum of the income in the country, and to make most of it. She'll be quick to do that. She wants to change the tax system to reduce the tax burden of those who have it rather than the others; she works hard against health care; she does not want to improve the quality of the elderly and the poor. The media has been fighting, as the kids would say, and was talking about last year when income bills were submitted and on notice, as the senator points out. However, what the senator said earlier crystals that the counterweighting measures in the diet tax are largely taken back to the budget now. Since 600 million are taken back because of child development and 200 because of the growth reforms, it is not surprising that the candidates, e.g. That good man. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson, don't you talk about this? They're not bringing this up. They just sit, they don't sit down, they sit deaf. Isn't that strange?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u137	President. This was shown during the discussion when we were discussing the budget where these figures are under control, since the head of the Economic and Business Committee does not intend to request analysis of the counter-important measures and how they have been affected, that the less part of the Economic and Business Committees did so. In view of history and these actions, it is unacceptable that some analysis of the impact of the operation and how much of it has actually been accomplished by completing most of the amount. I think it's very important that a smaller part of the Economic and Business Committee request this analysis so it's in place. In terms of the political infrastructure of the Future Party, I think in many ways this is well reflected in the existence and presence of the long-term and acute crisis of that class, i.e. Almost going mad over a matter at some point that seems to be a big deal of justice and sweeping public opinion and the general discussion with them, as when the candidates said they would not be invited to raise the food tax, they were with the public in the country, with the homes in the country, and all that was persistent in the campaign in 2013. After all, it doesn't matter. When the throwing light is no longer on the decision, the food tax, when it has already been completed, and there are other years of age, and there are only other types of applications. Then there's something else that matters. It exposes exactly how relaxed the follow - up was, and how small was there then when everything came to a complete extent to the great political crisis that was passing through this issue in its own time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u138	Mr. President. Impotence at the highest. A minister is foolish enough for a man to lie down below his roof. Hv. paritaprevir Sóggis Svavarsdóttir made that the subject of absence at the highest. Secretary of education from this discussion. We've been through a lot of trouble here because of RUS. V.E.G. The minister of education came here yesterday and became a complete disgrace as he sat and thundered here on the bench, refusing to answer questions or questions. Senators. But what do you think? A senator on the performance of the minister of the elderly and desperate matter? Has a what? A senator saw the highest. Minister, Eygló Harðardóttir, in these last days? No. V.E.G. Minister Eygló Harðardóttir is hiding. She does not want to be seen at the council because she is responsible for the position that has come up in the affairs of the elderly and the desperate. It is her responsibility that the only thing that the elderly and the desperate have got out of the current government, when taxes have been taken into account, are one lousy 10 of you. K. At the same time, these come to the highest. Ministers and ministers. Councilmen of the board, speaking of it as a gift to the elderly and desperate. Yet, there is a prerogative. Councilmen have betrayed the poor and the elderly; they have left the group alone who cannot recover. Whatever. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son slips out of his seat, so the situation is just an increase at the beginning of the year of 3% and the increase at the beginning of the next year means that there is no increase. There are others, including why. A senator and me and the highest. Ministers, all in the community have been restored, except for the elderly and the desperate. If they're not here, where are they gonna come? Can't say why. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir, it's a clean, dog-slashed gizzard at the highest. A social minister who handles the concerns of the elderly and the desperate will not even be seen in the discussion?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u139	President. Here, very clear wishes were made during the second period of the night, asking ministers to attend the discussion. Secretary of education came here to shut up for an hour. They also requested the highest order. Minister of health, Kristján Þór Júlíusson. He did not come here, and he has not been present in any way. In fact, he has hardly been present if he is changing because he has been invisible and when he has arrived, what he has to say has hardly been heard. V.E.G. The social and housing minister, Eygló Harðardóttir, has truly been hiding and lying down anyone who wants to, for it seems to be the highest. The minister of education and culture is not the only one in the government of Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunollson who is left entirely alone with his own business. V.E.G. The Minister of Eygló Harðardóttir is in that position. Now it's been two and a half years of this terms, and it seems she's having a lot of trouble with all the cases, getting them on or getting them through government or on any other level. It is odd that it is not even that the chairman or director of the Convention Party will adopt a review for her case or follow them in any way. We can also recall a march of the highest order. Secretary of travel with the natural pass. At the time of that confusion at the General Assembly, all the government ministers returned to their walls while experiencing their political humiliation, which it has not yet been raised. This dissension and problems of the present government may be particularly prominent here under the financial bill, which has been a characteristic of the government since the first day that this is not a group of people who control the country. It's a dislocated team without a lead.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u140	Hv. A senator may have added: And then comes the highest. Prime Ministers and organists like street boys over the council not to change a single cane, including to improve the interests of the elderly and the disability of the elderly or to correct the major problems of rent - rent housing, for example, much less for land hospitals. Mr. President. It is only hoped that when you see three of the highest standards, your mother will be iced. Ministers don't dare to go to the council hall. They don't want to come here to discuss their affairs. V.E.G. The minister of multitude, the daughter of Eygló Harðardóttur, pleads the cause of the aged and desperate. The congregation is anxious for all the benefits she has gained for that small group, I will say, as the government will do to him. What's that as high as possible? Minister Eygló Harðardóttir has advanced before them? It's 1 0 thousand when the tax's taken off. Where's the bottom line? A health minister? What has he accomplished? He doesn't even feel like fighting for the Land Hospital. He's just saying, the General's got the budget. He does not come here trying to communicate and try to make sure that the Landspians get what it takes to live with what they did last year. That's $2.9 billion short. There has been brief evidence from all aspects of that matter. What was the answer to the Generalis, strictly? Yeah, yeah, yeah. paritaprevir Thus, Vigdís Hauksdóttir, president of the budgetary committee, attacked the director of the Land Hospital, who was just doing his job, had come up with an indistinguishable argument, that he was resorting to spiritual violence. As we've seen before. A senator pointed to the highest thirst. Even the Minister of Education is not answering questions about his subjects. Then you wonder, " What is left of this government? ' It acts like a confused herd under no premise, where one pulls one way and another in one direction, and we stand by the position that the elderly and the poor have been cut down by the troll of this government, that the Landspians don't get enough money to keep away since last year. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] And the highest. A minister of education is like a very smoother person against the U.S. Radio.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u141	President. It's natural history. It's sad. Like what? A senator mentions it more than tears that this particular group, the elderly, and the desperate, deliberately be left behind under these circumstances when men beat themselves in the chest at this point and then find themselves comparing themselves with 2009, which was a natural period that hopefully will never come back in Iceland, when all Icelanders went under the yoke, each one and every one of them, including the elderly and the desperate, truly. Indeed, it was shared by older ones and poorer ones. But what is the situation now? Everyone's getting dressbacks, more or less backward, and people who don't need them, people who have enough, that you don't mention government leaders. There's no shortage there if I'd thought so. But people who live in poverty, economic poverty, are deliberately left behind. And then we're all welcome here, and, fortunately, we'll see into the highest mentality of our minds. The financial and economic minister I sometimes thought was the one who was the most arduous of the government's counsellors, but what a shame. What a terrible thing to do when the Minister shows us into his mind. When he finds himself trying to make the shoes look good because he doesn't want to work, he does. He finds himself saying here that people can be starving to work, sick people, long - suffering people, disabled people, people who don't hear or see, that they can be taught by starving techniques to get into a job market. [[The president calls.]] This is where we live. If this is to be done well with the homes of the country, it is clear that some homes are not there. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u142	A respectable president. This time, I would like to briefly review our changes in the smaller parts of the refugee and foreigner business, the affairs of refugees, and the assistance of immigrants. The changes in the government's proposals account for 200 billion. K. on this project. On the one hand, money is expected to assist immigrants, social help, and thus to be a welfare project. However, additional funds will be given for the treatment of applications for asylum at the Foreign Institute. This is a very important subject in view of the recent discussions and weeks that have resulted from two Albanian families, which have been very much in the news and from the provision of the National Institute of Iceland, to withhold and dismiss them from their land. The reason for the U.S. National Institutes of Iceland is that Albanes generally do not meet the conditions of refugees because they do not suffer persecution in their country of origin and they do not live under the political conditions commonly viewed as a fugitive. True, they are in search of a better life, but there are many, and to gain the right to take refuge, some material things must be fulfilled. However, what has led us all to reflect on this discussion is the fact that the treatment of the situation in this country has taken an enormous amount of time, so long that in the fall of this discussion, the children of these families would not be attending school. The reason for the treatment of the matter was that there was not enough money in the Foreign Institute to speed up application procedures. Therefore, it will be used in a court of law by the National Institute of Iceland to create a link between candidates and the country, making it more difficult for them to abstain from asylum because the passing delay creates a link to the country and conditions that make it inhuman to dismiss the people out of the country. Therefore, it is important to ensure sufficient funds for the treatment of applications for asylums that we know will increase over the next few months and lose in order to speed up the amount of money we can do. At a meeting of the Board of Directors and Follow-up Committee last week or during the past week, when we discussed the review of The State Reconclusion of the Organization's Office, I specifically asked a representative of the Ministry of Internal Affairs how much it would be possible to speed matters up, even though all suspenses were respected. The answer was that matters could be completed with complete requisitions and by appeal of a decree would take place within a month. It must be our goal, a respectable president, for people who come here, who fail to meet the conditions of becoming refugees, thus not automatically entitled to an asylum, get their release quickly. So it is in our power to prevent them from forming links between candidates and the country that can then cause the failure to do otherwise than give refuge to the candidates at the end. Last night during the Spates at the State Radio, there was an interesting discussion on this subject and, among other things, was one of the talks of a procurator welcomeing refugees in Norway. It showed that the Norwegians do not provide refuge for the Albanian population, and it is very difficult to obtain a leave on welfare grounds for the Albanian refugees. However, it was also found that most applications in Norway are supplied in less than 48 hours. Here I think it might be a question for us whether we can speed up a matter rather than take care of all the rights of the people. The premise is that governments are ready to defend money in order to increase their speech speed. The second choice is that we can get more and more applicants who do not qualify to be refugees. Of course, they are here for a long time, and we are responsible for some form of fire and shelter. All that costs money. Then there will be a greater chance that when the situation finally comes to an end, people formed an inhuman connection with the country. In this way, increasing funding to increase the rate and number of payments may be to save in the press and to reduce the need to provide shelter for those who are not considered refugees in the narrow sense, with more space and more space for refugees who are actually fleeing terrors and horrors. I miss the financial bill so much that I don't see any intelligent material coverage on this subject and that there is no attempt to evaluate the benefit if we were to create a budget that would be unpredictable for refugees up to 100 million. K. which a foreign agency might go in to get things done faster so that those long waiters would not need to be formed and people would get their own money quickly and safely. They would all profit from that. We set priorities in behalf of those who are in the greatest need in that way and pay for the quick and effective payment of refugees who are truly in need of asylum. I'll then briefly mention the other aspect of this proposal, which means increasing funding in order to make it easier for immigrants to adapt. No one needs to be deluded about how important it is that money is available to help people adapt to Icelandic society, learn Icelandic, and settle down here. It has been neglected on our part, but it is unwise to neglect this national cleaning project.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u143	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a speech that will address a very prominent case at this time in the political discussion, i.e. We're dealing with the NGOs and the Foreign Institute for Refugees. Hv. A senator pointed out the need for additional funds to be added to this party so that there can be a better outcome. But what I got into my speech yesterday and I wanted to swerve at what happened. The fact is that the long budget debate we have is long because it is political emphasis to appear in budgets that have not been approved here at council, cases have not been submitted. I mentioned yesterday's transport plan, a development team plan. I mentioned a case that we have repeatedly tore up - to - date, which is a policy change in high school affairs, which is shown only in financial terms. I can mention examples such as various parts of the country, such as the northwestern committee. Political decisions are being made that are rendered solely in financial terms. It's not policy. It is not a debate that will be held at the council in order to address the issues of opinion. On the other hand, in such matters, there is no need to be. A member of the Senate noted policy labor and cross - political committee for new alien laws that have not yet been submitted. I'd like to ask you what. A senator's opinion of this is how he describes the administration. We've got policy. However, it does not appear. It does not take place sufficiently in the budget bill while other policy measures have not been completed and money is being mapped in various directions without the completion of policy. I'm worried about this development, Mr. President. I think we're headed in a demented direction. We're intruding a debate over a huge political opinion in the only discussion on the budget, so that the focus is normally scattered, so we cannot properly inform the public of the standards that exist.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u144	A respectable president. I share this concern with you. Senator. She's a cuddly beast, this government. Where there is political solidarity, it does not use it, and in other areas it prefers to break it up if it is available. It is of interest to note that this picture is drawing up on the government plans during that winter that when funding are paid, there will be nothing to be done at the National Parliament until spring. There are no other cases. In other words, it means that the government's going to press, like a rough one. A senator rightly points out, all political opinions into the budget bill because they can be settled in one piece and they have no reason to reason here on any legal policy. It is very strange that the government did not rely on its efforts to implement a transport plan or a developing teamwork plan. That's very interesting. In particular, this game is a fire, for it is not given at the time of our lives that it would form a parapolitic controversies on the affairs of immigrants, the affairs of foreigners. It's done here. How commendable it is for that present to be the highest! The local minister of Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir was to begin a transnational policy in this series, and it is to all classes to praise that he has brought it to its end. But governments have a rich responsibility not to let it go down, since the danger is that if we do not have all the political powers around these policies, people will have free cards in the next elections to make foreign or prejudices with disastrous consequences, as we have seen in other countries. [[The president calls.]] Thus, the great success achieved by parapolitan protests on the foreign matter is a political advantage for the nation as a whole. If the government doesn't do anything about it, it's playing with fire.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u145	Mr. President. I can agree with what. A senator's concern about painting a group like the affairs of foreigners is a delicate group of subjects. For example, we know this from our neighboring countries and the political situation that exists there, which not many people would have anticipated some 1,5,520 years ago or so. There have been significant changes back then. I agree with what. That is why it is very important to take care of the solidarity that has existed in this country. But the comparison between all these matters, whether in the case of foreigners or other matters, may be less sensitive to the discussion than to the importance of the painting, we can say, is overwhelming in the government. This is hardly a matter for the council, but it is being tried to take the shorter course and make decisions through the budget. I wonder what. A senator sees some ways to change it at the council. Of course, there is no doubt about such a course, avoiding necessary discussion, thereby avoiding legal procedures, such as. in the case of a transport program where a legal process is available, but we do not have a transport plan. The last transport program was completed in 2012. It's come to a good degree. Ministers feel that they do not have to bring a case into the council, and it is appropriate for them to put down some money on a certain project or procedure without the normal material discussion of it at the council. I personally feel that this is something of a natural nature. A prime committee should directly address their meetings because this work is reducing the credibility of the council. That should be a concern for all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u146	A respectable president. In this context, the analysis of the General Assembly on the cause of the bank crash was a bit harsh, in terms of administration and the legal practice of the counselgiver, in order to ensure that the Minister's office had been too much and a lack of respect for legal procedures. This is where we are sitting with a government that just ignores all legal procedures. I agree with what. A senator, of course, will reduce his confidence in politics. This also increases political conflict, for we are locked up in a conflict of budgets that are the only material, which produces a package bell, with the most powerful powers in the governments and even the moderate forces that would have appeared, as in the case of the State Radio, a good example, if a person follows a general legal motion is overwhelming. During the last term, we saw an example showing that a legal case was handled with a minister's molding but with a greater part of the council. It's never been seen in this terms. The ruling party is in charge of these packages, and there is the most powerful guide to the chairman and vice president of the budget Committee, which is the ideological leaders of the government, and they set up the main lines of the government, from which they come to judge the living and the dead, to decide how houses should be built, to determine how government agencies should operate without any legal authority or a special commission to do so. This is reverse development. It is negative in all ways. I think we should consider whether the Generals agent could support us in this regard, force the government to proceed with legal procedures.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u147	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a fine talk on the affairs of refugees and immigrants in general. This talk has been very prominent in society recently because of the position of the two Albanian families who came to this country and applied for residence permits but were not classified as refugees and were expelled from the country. I generally feel that this is a brain of something that really needs to be revised, and also in our European legislation against people who don't have the status of refugees but who are interested in going to Iceland and improving their terms and living with more security, better health care and the like. They have long - suffering children, and it is not surprising that they seek the safety of being in Iceland. In recent years and decades, foreign workers have often come here to Iceland and help us keep our employment going, but their application has always been a factor. I know why. A senator knows that. Counts 'em out. A senator's need to review this and as much as possible and to be justified at the time? What Has Changed? Why don't we jump it all up and invite them people who want to be here as active participants in our business life, culture, and society?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u148	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's question. It's very thought - provoking. In the case of a job permit to people outside the EEA, the license is given only to the individual, not to a family, and there is no general right to bring a family to the country. It is true that the National Institutes of Iceland says and, for example, confirmed the Norwegian authorities yesterday during a radio interview in the Spatels that the Albanian community is not at risk. The situation is not that they generally have the right to consider refugees and the right to take refuge in them. Albania is an application land to the European Union and has been accepted as such and requires a specific confidence. But then you can look at it from another point of view, for as soon as Albania has become a part of the European Union, these people have full freedom to come here, find work, and bring their families here. I think we need to find something in between. I don't think we've been able to make a way for people who want to come here and work with us and do their part for an Icelandic community. It is normal for them to depend on some conditions or conditions, but it should be possible in some way. I do not share the point of view that making a decision in any case on the basis of some humanitarian concept will result in a spectacular precedent. Similarly, Sweden is committed to accepting everyone they claimed to be taking over three or four weeks ago. They've changed the rules. Of course, there is always a decision to take for a while more rigid or more extant rules. In Iceland, the situation today is that very few refugees have come here this year. So there is good reason to relax now, but it may well be that there will be a great flow next year. [[The president calls.]] At least we're going to meet the Syrian refugees. [[The president calls.]] Then there may be reason to lean back on it, and it should also be possible to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u149	Mr. President. It has been reported that the AllSAP agent has requested to the head of the Foreign Institute for Public Affairs and investigation of the applications of these Albanian families for the granting of humanitarian permission on health grounds, particularly since there are children on the other side. I'd like to hear from what happened. A senator on that matter and the case of the National Institute of Iceland. We know that this particular case, which has been a great deal in the discussion with these two Albanian families, has been set up on the board of the General and Education Committee and is being considered a potential citizen's rights for these families. I understand that a person who had at least one family head working, I don't know well enough about the other family situation, applied for citizenship for that family. I'd like to hear from what? Senator on this. Of course, we take a matter in our arms and try to solve it in some way, but this case has touched the heart of all Icelanders and may be the means of breaking down prejudice in this language that I think is there. Then I'd like to hear from what happened. A member of the Council of Norway's affairs and the number of refugees they have taken to heart. [[The president calls.]] They have a 48 - hour rule that will proceed with certain matters within that period.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u150	A respectable president. I think that the delivery of the Norwegians during the 48-hour rule is due to their accepting a large number of refugees in other respects. Thus, they want to filter out those who come from countries where there is no war and no general fear and emergency in the same way as in the area where refugees come from. The number of refugees in Europe today is, of course, so vast that some of the countries where refugees are most concerned and open to some extent, they are now being given a luxuriant application. Norwegians are no exception. They have granted many asylums. We're not in that position. We've neglected to win the applications rapidly, as I mentioned in my speech earlier, and the result, in part, is that we have a certain humanitarian obligation not to close our eyes to people who have had to hang around and wait for an answer for perhaps a year, so it's our own self-importment. With regard to the families that have been most discussed here, I would feel that it would be better for the families to receive leaves on humanitarian grounds if they could simply call back the decision not to charge the decision and pass the charges to the decision because if they receive citizenship, health insurance will not begin to register until six months and so on. So I would think that their rights and positions would be the best thing to do by simply canceling the decision not to appeal, not to accuse the decision. If this is the case, a large number of Syrian refugees who are in real trouble are creating no precedent for the other Albanian families to come here. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u151	A respectable president. Perhaps it is going to be in the tray stream to add something to this discussion. I hope that I will be the drop that fills the meter in the 2016 budget discussion and it'll be over as soon as possible. I think it's time. The discussion has been long and thorough. I'm going to add a few points. There are a few things I find important this time. Actually, I'm not going to go over all the big things. There's no need to repeat all of them in this chair for long periods of time. I think the 2016 budget is the most important budget of the government during the season. It's the second last act of election. So it is vital that we do well now, as always before. I have to say, I'm very comfortable with a lot of things in the budget, but of course not everything, so I'm going to save all the money and it'll take about seven hours to vote for them. How would it be if you agreed with every part of that great fire? I think the financial committee and the people who have been there did a good job. They have worked hard and have worked hard and have provided us with good financial provisions. It is most important in this context to remember that these are the third budget in a row that we put forth without a tilt. That's a good job. In the beginning, the policy was set to return unscrupulous financial laws. True, many things have been good for us since we took over the 2013 government, so there have been a number of other things that have increased. With the stability bill and the agreement with the breakup control of the fallen banks, there will be room for subsidies, which, in the end, will hopefully be the best cohesion for the nation's population, when the nation's debt decreases even hundreds of billions, and the government's subsidies may be reduced from 70,480 billion a year to perhaps 306.535 billion each year. We can see in our hand the tremendous impact that the government will have on talking as near as possible to the Land Hospital business in one year is being added to the next and next to the budget, becoming more involved in health and education, and the vital aspects of the state's budget each year and all, of course, of course. I also feel that it is important to think about the present time that a difficult bargain and a long way ended, according to my opinion. Remuneration rates were considerable. I hope we can keep the national sink on the right rope and we don't lose control of inflation and we don't cross-cut prices and pay. The country's lowest wage is set for about 300 of you. K. in 2018. That's the goal that was set at the beginning of the contracts. I think a lot of people owed ups. My main concern is the fish farms that I fought a little bit for. It turned out to be a big bargain, and perhaps the biggest compensation was that all fish farmers are now paid a petition, so for many it was a huge breakthrough in the last contracts. Though not paid by all fish workers, a bonus is now not measuring into the increase, perhaps a minimal bonus is not in the range of 1,830,200 k. every hour. For the people who have been living under the basics of the nation for years, that is a tremendous increase in pay. The benefits of sensibilities and microenergy pensioners have been further improved. Berries rise by 9.7% on January 1st. Further improvements have increased by 17.1% since the beginning of 2014. At the same time, according to the information I have received, it has increased by 7.1%. Of course, it's a huge improvement for these people as well as for everyone in the country in a remuneration market. Indeed, this improvement will benefit all the homes of the country, and it may be that the ideals in the country are improving. I think we can all be happy about that. It is important that this is the way it will be. I wondered when looking at the work market that I'm special interested in, I don't talk about the fish industry where the technology has become so intense, like the other day when I visited one of the magnificent companies in Grinsavík, Visi, that if you were to take out the fish industry again and go to work in fish, you would probably have to take a course in Technical School before. Such technology has become available. It is of utmost importance in our society that innovation will remain in the shelter of strong and strong corporations in the fishing outlets of the country. Hence, we need to be careful that they have the means to build up, tax, and so forth. Then I would especially like to mention insurance in this regard. As many freshly remembered, annual spending was replaced with a decrease in income taxes in collective agreements during the year and in summer. It was a big deal to finish my contract with. I've heard in the community that especially those who are less paid feel that they should have enjoyed one of them. We're talking about the lowest paid in the country maybe 1% of the labour market. There are only a lot of people in a job market at the lowest wage, but most of them enjoy some form of bonus or extra pay that a pensioner does not enjoy. In spite of the substantial efforts of a pensioner, that group of people is still extremely poorly established and complex impairments keep pensions at the lowest level. I think it is very important that this group already be intelligent and evaluate what they can do to prevent and destroy poverty traps. The pension system is an equation system, but it is important that we level them even more. I've said and I'm still saying that we have to improve the benefit of this group further. We have the opportunity to do so by paying the least of those wearing a retrospective pension from May 1 or June. I'd like to come to that kind of work with the head of a pensioner. I think I owe these people a righteous bargain, as I did myself a few days ago. As far as I'm concerned, we can still make this dream come true for these people of a more light Christmas celebration. I believe we'll get together to finish this conversation well and protect our worst - seated brothers and sisters. I repeat what I've said before in this chair: we will be judged by the way we treat the older citizens of this country. I am content with how we have been able to accomplish many good things. A financial committee has supported good business in the third sector, and it is our duty to support this project in a creative way. I'm going to mention a few of them. There's an organization that's run by the third sector. There are treatment homes for alcoholics. These homes are run by amateurs and huge attendances, along with months of waiting. It is not unusual for every year three to four people on a waiting list to reach Krysuvik. This is a eloquent example of the seriousness of the situation and of how important it is for us to strengthen the activity that is being driven on Smokejanes with tremendous effort. I have with other members of Congress, and especially so. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann's son Pálsson went there and met these people, and we have studied the work and helped the people in various matters. It's good to feel appreciated. The same is true of Hilvekot in the Mosfells. There is a powerful help in this regard. There are 30 residents in homes that the state pays with 20 beds and that averages 70 on a waiting list. It is extremely important for us to protect this operation, so I don't talk about the mothership of the U.S.A., at Vogi, a hospital in the world's highest order, compared to the results it receives. The two mentioned in this list are also people who go unconventional and are certainly successful. With regard to this disease, it is quite clear that what is appropriate for the sick is different. I think we can be very proud of the way we look back on these two institutions and many others we've helped. I'd also like to discuss the provision of income and taxation of the government. We've increased national resources in a fairly rough calculation of 122 you. A million. K., i.e. A total of 122 billion. Some of it comes over and over again, but overall it might look like this: As the first government had decided, 10 billion wealth taxes were passed out. It was, and it is, indeed, an unfair tax, especially for many older citizens who lived and lived in large houses and had little money but had to pay enormous sums of taxes on account of their property in these houses. That tax was taxation of property that had repeatedly been paid taxes in effect. We've taken out 2 billion electrical taxes. It's good for all the homes of the country. As I mentioned earlier, another 15 billion tax reductions due to international labour agreements are being carried out next year. It was also an enormous enlarging in the collective agreements of the year. I, who has rather served as a spokesman for the moderateness of taxes, rejoice in itself over the fact that this phase has been reached. In the years that followed, we will likely consider some of the ways in which tax doctors can benefit the homes. The insurance price has been dropped by 3 billion. It's not much, it's not as much as we planned. The demand for a job has now been high, but as mentioned earlier, many of the conversations, the exchanges, and the 15 billion people in the middle of the interracial group have already been in demand. Still, I would have wanted to see if this wasn't even the case when the demand for the money in that fund is not as great as it was, if it could be postponed in that fund for a while to cut down the insurance money because the state's budget is not able to take all of it all at once. It is just one of the ideas people need to discuss, of course. I think it's important that we consider how we can meet our companies in the country, but, of course, government funds can't take on any tax reduction compared to what has been done before. There are also endless demand for additional donations and improved interest in the households. For example, there is the birth stock fund that pays for the insurance fee. [[Up front.]] And as soon as we're giving in, it's also hard to cut down the insurance fee so that we can't both give and get into it. We need to examine it. Next year, unless food supplies deliver 6 billion, customs will be removed from all products. The correction of debt was 80 billion, and 6 billion each year is a means of saving for young people and for those who want to set aside to pay their loans, to the head seat. [[Up front.]] It can truly be said, without exaggerating, that 122 billion have come back and returned to the improved interests of the households, with a decrease in debt, a decrease in fees that actually meet a slight increase in the value tax and then a toll count and other items I have listed here. As a whole, we are returning much to our country's homes, which, of course, is the objective of all of us. I think we can be proud of it, even though it's natural in this financial bill, it's different to all of us. That's normal. We are certainly going to improve the health and education system over the years and increase the general prosperity in the country. We all agree on that. Now that the space is growing, we will show it. I think we're all anxious after that time, and we're supposed to be. We need to continue setting priorities for our health and education systems and for those less fortunate in our community. I'm a big professional. I'm very interested in the construction of professional life. What is most important to me is to create a variety of well - paying jobs. Me and the Icelanders have tremendous opportunities for our resources. The waters around the country are filled with fish that produce enormous value. It is important that we pursue sustainable fishing and use it in the best possible way. I just repeat what I said earlier about a modern fish house that you really need to go to Technical School to start working there again. That's the technology. We can see how to produce consumer packages in the large freezers and carry fresh products directly to the market. These are the opportunities. The interaction and market may be the most important link in the chain of the fishing road to increase prosperity and value in that sector. All the innovations that bloom and grow out of these fertile soils have we seen in Grindík, in Isfjordur, in the West, in Cape, and elsewhere. The big companies there are the source of a lot of fermentation for smaller companies. Traveller's on a bullshit cruise. There is an opportunity for an assembly, but surely we Icelanders need to make more money from the tourist. I think it's very important that we don't give up on charge of any resource fee from every tourist that comes to the country, some fixed dollar fee. There's been a lot of talk about it in this room, and I don't think we should give up on it. That's extremely important. In most parts of the world, tourists are known to pay a specific price, and we need to get it. I feel that it takes way too much time to argue over what kind of price this should be. It's simple in many places. We have a tax system to collect this, and it doesn't have to be a complicated setting around it. This brief talk may be too much to go on, but I stress that we find ways and are not trapped in arguing about the form, but I try to find a common way to increase our country's income. I think it's very important. We also have a major industry in the country that has created people with enormous income and good wages, and in its shelter, there has also been considerable innovation. All of this constitutes one strong chain that provides the basis for the nation's prosperity. We need to take good care of her together and maintain our employment so that we make a decent salary and service here, as I have said before. Again, I'm going to thank a legal committee and those who have reached the high level of work that depends on the 2016 budget. It is a great and challenging work, but it is unappreciative, as we have heard in these last days. I may have taken it too seriously when we were asked to be perfunctory at the General School before I started a career at the council, but I've taken the Polish in the hill not to speak more than I need, and I'm not coming from any unnecessary situation in this chair. I have not brought down the humiliation of beinglittled by others or their knowledge. It's not my style, but too many people are that way. I think we should stop it and speak respectfully to one another in this room. [[Up front.]] Happily, that is what most people do. To me, everyone is doing their best in their work, but we need to consider that the reputation of the Parliament and our senators in this way and by showing honor to the people of the country in all our jobs is good for us.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u152	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I notice that governments speak repeatedly as if there were some transformations in the economy when the new government began, but now in 2013 it was achieved to reverse the trend and to return, so to speak, a slanted business. Counts 'em out. A senator that if the government that would have been in that year had the result become much worse? Or are we not talking about the fact that it does not really matter who is sitting in our seats behind us? Rather, are there so many external factors that affect, the tourist stream, the macro, the raw prices, and other factors? I sometimes feel as if there were some huge heavens that fell from heaven, that government that took over in 2013, and that everything would be in coldwash if it hadn't taken over. Do I understand this hearing right now?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u153	A respectable president. Thanks for the inquiry. Although I may not have said that in my talk, I have made this comment before that we took over at exactly the right time. Things had just started to swing, and many began to lie down with us. Even though I did not have that brief speech on this day, I have never kept it to myself. Of course, who is seated in the chairs? But how we have prepared the soil is also important. In a sense and in many respects, it had been done fine even though I was not listing some aspect of it here. However, the government was, and I agree with you, a delivery of heaven. I think you're right. True, many items were beginning to lie down with land and nation when they began to take over.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u154	A respectable president. Just to be told, I don't think the government is a heaven's present, but I like to hear and think it's a reasonable approach. A senator he came into this room in his answer. Of course, it's not that black and white, as I think some executives act. I have severely criticized the debt of the government. I felt that it was an operation that was far too expensive, so I did not really limit my efforts to help the worst, and there was an enormous amount of money in that operation. This is one hundred and ninety billion plus. I would have wanted to defend them in another way, especially now that we have to build wood. We watch Land Hospital, transportation, and what I know, also reduce the debt of a state fund that is very important. I thought it was disappointing that the Independence Party should, I'd almost like to put people in line with the government on this campaign. [[The president calls.]] What does it say? A senator of that?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u155	A respectable president. I appreciate that question, too. The debt was simply the government's campaign code. That's what it was all about. This was done by a great variety, and if home isn't the most important structures in the country, I don't know what the most important structures are. If we have a damaged home, the community will be sick, so despite the fact that there are some offenders in such a massive operation, I think that, overall, since I know and where I have felt it, the debt made a huge difference for many homes in the country and made much home again. It was all a smoking mess. Homes are the key to a stronger nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u156	Madam President. What was it? Just a senator saying in his speech earlier? Don't you think he needs to explain it a little bit more? Hv. A senator has spoken most of the interests of the elderly and the poor. He said that he was proud of what the Independence Party had returned to the nation. Is he proud that in the time of this government, the elderly and the desperate have received an increase that after taxes are ten thousand. Is he proud of that? Same time as what. A senator says that he is proud that the government has returned to the nation of 122 you. So, millions, can he hit on his chest and claim to be proud that the elderly and the invalid receive ten thousand? Madam President. Hv. A senator said that older ones are very poor, and they need to be improved. He wanted to get to it. As I know the holy book that says your speech should be yes, yes, and no, no, and I ask why. A senator: Will he support a proposal that suggests that the elderly and the elderly are restored to an up - to - date May 1? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u157	Thank you. The manager for the query. As noted in my case, I have, like other members of the government, entered into the fact that there have certainly been many deficiencys and we have returned them to the elderly and pensioners, that is clear. Of course it is, and I completely agree with you that we need to raise and improve the benefits of these people. It's totally clear, I want it. I have said and told it in my speech earlier that I wanted to find a way to make up for the six months I received myself this year. I want to find a way to do that, for example. by taking half of this 9.7% increase and returning to May 1 or June 1 if an agreement is reached. I am filled with the desire to improve their terms and meet these requirements that I find normal demands in the condition of society.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u158	Madam President. Hv. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson disappoints me. I thought that was it. A senator would stand with his own conviction. His convictions are what he has described, and he wants the elderly to be raised, but he does not intend to vote for them, unless solidarity is successful. Hv. The chairman of the council is here like a watchdog to watch his head. Senator. What was he saying before, Madam President? He said: "We will be judged by the way we treat our older citizens and the disability of this country. Hv. A senator has come here and in the press and said that he regrets that he has not taken up the suggestions for raising the elderly. Now he comes and what's he saying? He's still running away. Will he not maintain his own convictions? Isn't he really going to vote with a suggestion for an increase, for a retrospective compensation for the elderly and the desperate? No, that's what he was saying. Then according to his own words he shall be judged, and he shall be found wanting for his own words, both for the aged and for the poor in the land. [[The president calls.]] I was deeply disappointed in what happened. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u159	A respectable president. Hv. A senator sharpens his voice and wants answers. I have publicly said that I have regretted saying no to the proposal. I've said it and I'll say it in this chair; I said it in my speech earlier. [[Up front.]] I've said that I'm going to stand up with these people. That's for sure. Of course, it's not possible for me now, here in this chair, to say yes to a suggestion that may not be presented. I'm saying what we have to do is bring these people back what they're saying. I am totally on the same page as you in it, and by all means I want to ensure the peace that we have to make with them people. We're obviously wrong that we didn't play anything better out of this situation than we did. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u160	... breaksoutofdeath...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u161	I am not subject to any hell, I will completely uphold my own convictions in this case when it comes to that, absolutely. No matter where the watchdogs come from, they'll have no effect on me.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u162	The President reminds the senators to use the proper comment when it is due. Senators are addressed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u163	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for a good and clear speech. I'd like to take this opportunity to ask you why. A senator whether he intends to accept an adjustment form from the smaller section, which agrees. The Commission and monitoring committee on the 2014 Commission report of the Generals' campaign. It suggests that the U.S. Marshal needs about 15 million. K. extra funding to be able to do the initiative research. Basic research is essential in connection with the ability of an agent to carry out his job independently and take the initiative to investigate matters rather than simply care for matters that come on his table. I'd like to ask you a question about attitude. The senator's opinion of this and whether he agrees with this change.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u164	A respectable president. Thank you for the question. I'm just not exactly involved in this case. I haven't really studied this suggestion. Regarding Generalist Generalis, it is clear that it is very important for him to have time for his work and activities in order to carry out the assignments that come to him and to report it to the General Assembly. But the 15 million that a senator talks about, I haven't studied that case in particular, so I can't answer it without the evidence in front of me.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u165	A respectable president. I appreciate that answer, and I appreciate it. A senator to examine the opinion of a man. Board of Directors and Follow-up Committee. This is a short and easy - to - read report, which includes the need for additional funds to do research. And so it says, by permission of the president: It highlights the importance of the office so that it is enabled to operate professionally and to carry out the legal tasks assigned to it. In this regard, the context of budgetary funds for the agent and the post of the European Commission was discussed in connection with this. It is very important in my opinion to ensure the financial security of the Generals, and I hope so. A senator agrees with me.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u166	A respectable president. I thank you again for the leader. I just have to admit that I may not hear what you said in your previous inquiry when you were talking, you spoke a little low, but I'm saying that it is extremely important to have financial security and that at work he will be able to handle the important factors and share it with you in it. I'll be studying the report.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u167	The president would still like to remind the senators to use the proper address when it is due. Senators are addressed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u168	Madam President. Hv. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson has gone to the field and declared support for the suggestions that the smaller section offered regarding the rear - moving elevations to the elderly and desperate. I, along with others and probably groups of elderly and desperate people, insist on what to do. A senator explains whether he will support a revised proposal in these areas at 3rd. He owes his people the answer. It's been said that the blues and blues are in society, and you ask yourself, and I ask why. Senator: Should the elderly and the poor always be some leftover size? Men praise all the beautiful groups and speak to them so that they will come in order to do so, but in times of trial, priority is always in behalf of others other than those to be remembered. Like the Independence Party, people continue to buy favor by promising that later flowers will come better. [[The president calls.]] But when is that? Has a what? A senator fought for these opinions within a sect of independence? Or is he the only human to have such opinions?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u169	A respectable president. Thank you for the inquiry from what? paritaprevir Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir. I'm not going to judge how many members of my body are supporting my language on this matter. It's enough for me to speak for me. Others will speak for themselves in that matter. I've made it clear that I've done wrong when I didn't vote to the proposal, I'll at 3rd. See what the situation will be, because there is nothing certain that this proposal will be moved back. There may be another conclusion. I had one suggestion to do that earlier. I totally agree with what. A senator that in some way we have to make up for these people the money we received at the same time that I will work on them. That's the answer I can give right now. The vote will reveal what I do, but it will certainly have their interests in mind. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u170	Madam President. They will be very attentive to the way they react. A senator will vote on this case if a new proposal is made that I calculate firmly. Hv. A senator also has to answer why this government, which he speaks of as being heaven's pass, will cut down on health and health matters, but always prioritised in behalf of the rich and strong and fictitious powers, and has relieved taxes from most of the resources and subsidies, wealth tax, and energy tax. All of this counts. If it is not possible in this situation, when economic recovery is great, to improve the benefits of those who have fallen behind, when can the benefits be improved? It always comes first. At the time, the bank manager warned that the country's lowest wage would be raised, as was fought. [[The president calls.]] You ask yourself, " Why are these groups always placed in the back seat? '
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u171	A respectable president. It's funny if I'm the only senator in the greater part who's gonna tell you that they're gonna have a bicycle in it. I guess you have to put up with that, too. As far as I know, we've put our taxes on demands and banks and the makings and fishing costs never been higher than they are today. [[Up front.]] They weren't that tall during the last term. [[Up front.]] I think we're working very hard on taxing the project. I don't think the debate over the interest of pensioners and micro-employers doesn't have to go on these tracks because we have really set priorities for hospitals, for Land Hospitals and for health care in the country. No one will be able to take it away from us. In recent years, there have been billions of health and education systems, and like most others, we are on the right track.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u172	A respectable president. I certainly come here as a guard dog for the Independence Party party. I'm going to make a comment to the speech that happened today on the part of the day. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir to ooze. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son. I do so here and now, with the words that I will be chairman of the Independence Party write a letter to the president of the Parliament requesting that the speech and word at hand be discussed. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, Ponta All Congress today, on the part of the campaign. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir and that President knows how and whether it is morally right and proper for senators to testify in this way and for senators, whether they like a member of Congress or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u173	Madam President. I hope so. paritaprevir Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir's daughter informed Birgitta Jónsdóttir's daughter that she intends to settle the matter this way because I feel that everyone has a right to answer. It's nice to have watchdogs, but what? paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir has none like that at the Assembly Hall right now. However, I do not come up for the exchange of words. I want to draw attention to another. I couldn't understand why. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson different from what he was saying to the council that he was making a suggestion where men were trying to meet his language and opposition to the elderly and desperate position of government. This is the language that has become mostly bitter. If they succeed in making peace with this matter, the action of Congress will go far beyond that. I propose that this meeting be postponed and that the motion be made. A senator says that work is being done with the opposition so that it can simply be completed. That's all we're asking for.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u174	A respectable president. What good news that is! paritaprevir In any case, we would like to be able to understand them, as did Ásmundur Friðriksson, who wrote down on some proposal to meet the requirements for improving the ideals of the elderly and the desperates and that their elections from May 1 will be corrected. I heard why. Last year, a member of the U.S. Senate tells us that he is a member of the U.S. Senate. It is good if men are trying to make such a suggestion, and surely she would be delighted if it did not succeed from June 1, but we still insist on May 1. That's why I'd like to agree with the words of my platoon brother and my boy. þm. Acoustics, Össur's son. [[The president calls.]] I think it's wise to postpone a meeting while we're checking on this further.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u175	Madam President. What an interesting word that was! Friðriksson It would be necessary to bring at least a portion of the increase, 9.7%, to be taken on January 1, the following year, to the elderly and to the disability until May 1 or June 1 or this year. Of course, this is a step in the right direction. I agree that I think we should postpone this meeting and go together, opposition and government, to examine these ideas. Maybe it'll be. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson's hope in the dark here that we can work things out. I don't know. Or is it just empty words? I'm not gonna judge it in advance. But it's also very bad if people are shooting up like this and there's expectations, and this thing goes into society, that whale. A member of the board wants this and wants the other, if there's no point in it. So now it's a test of how strong a dog is. A senator is a member of his administration.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u176	A respectable president. I'm going to start by saying that I was a companion to each other. paritaprevir Jón, son of Gunnarsson, is in the last two councils, and he serves as such. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller sits today. My contact with what? paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson was on his way nowhere but slow. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir described this morning. Other issues discussed are why. paritaprevir Ásmundur the son of Friðriksson, and then they're in charge. Government opposers have set up here on the President's conference board. The fact is, the opposition is a code of speech that it does not really realize for itself what it is for, where to lead us, and when to end. Then there are those who call the government opposition to the table to discuss unique matters that turn to make up the elderly and the microgeries. That may be the problem. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson offered the mayor of Reykjavík for the weekend's work, which announced that food should be cut down for the elderly and the Corinthians. [[The president calls.]] It was once the Hopestar of the United States, and it was still looking to him because of the UN's leadership problem today. [[The president calls.]] Maybe there's a reason. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's love to volunteer this person, the mayor of Reykjavík, for this job.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u177	A respectable president. I'm not going to discuss my authority in the Independence Party. I don't know what their standards are. I'm not going to leave... maybe there'd be a lot different things if it were, yeah. [[Up front.]] But I said in my speech earlier, to be perfectly clear, and I'm going to repeat it: I'd like to come to such a job along with a representative of a pensioner and think I owe these people a righteous bargain like myself a few days ago. Of course, you can't make more of it than I'm saying here. I don't have a discussion on that subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u178	Why not?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u179	I just talked about it at a council meeting yesterday and I've been talking about it for weeks at my council. It contains everything that needs to be said on my part of this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u180	Isn't that the scene?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u181	Madam President. It has been in the process of this discussion that the principal sorebone between government and government opposition is whether to pay back the elderly and the micro-piercing benefits to May 1. We're in a hurry. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson has confirmed here that he wants to come to that job, he made a mistake when he didn't support the proposal. He has confirmed that if a similar proposal is made, he will vote for it. At the same time, he has made it clear that there is a debate within the council of independence and that the members of the management team are likely to find some form of compromise, perhaps according to the circuits he mentioned earlier. This can be discussed with the government's opposition. [[Up front.]] We are willing to reach that work and make peace in the matter we have been arguing about. It's called paying for Congress. I want to be a part of it. I think this conversation could be concluded very quickly, so I feel that it is time to postpone a meeting and try to find the place of peace. þm. Ásmundur Friðrksson says that there is, in effect, fire in some part of the board. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u182	V.E.G. President. I've always found it most successful to sit down and try to negotiate the smells of things at this time, and I've been there many times. So I would like to agree with what has happened to some members of the council that this meeting will be postponed so that the Board of Staff can meet to see if there is anything like this in the pipe, to correct the most controversial issue, i.e. progressive elevations to the elderly and disability. I feel that a lot of executives are hurting their stomach because of this attack on the elderly and the desperate. If it's true what I've heard that more of the budget committee has been at this lunch hour to discuss that matter, I would like to ask them two representatives of the forward Party, which are sitting here, the head of Congress members of the prosecutors and the procurators. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson, whether there was a meeting and whether this was a work point. An affidavit in that case would make it easier for us to be a senator. At the same time, I'd like to hear from a health committee like what. The þingmaður of Elsa Lára Arnard og Silja Dögg Dönsótttir, who sit in the hall, hear from them about this discussion. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Finally, I'd like to say, a respectable president, with a friendly request, that I am next on the rosary and I wish for the minister of Social Affairs, Eygló Harðardóttir, to be here because I intend to direct to her three, four questions on the subject of the most debate in the council. [[The president calls.]] I wish that the minister would be present at that speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u183	The president accepts that request.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u184	A respectable president. Sadly, the word appears to have been too much read out. paritaprevir Ásmundur Frider's Friðriksson. This does not change the fact that some members of the body have been readily heard today that their will is to meet the elderly and the desperate. Happily, there is a spirit that soars. Ásmundur EinarDaðason just sad to hear how much this fine man is willing to meet these people in our country we've left behind when everyone else gets benefits afterwards. I find it boring to see, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u185	Madam President. These are the three biggest cases we've discussed here, the government possession, which we want to have more and better conversation about with the rulers. Therefore, we have requested that the case now be visited by a financial committee to know if there is any surface or if there is any appointment. Some of the senators in this room who are more than 20 in politics and who have spent a few years at the General Assembly are aware that this is a time when people sit down and try to find solutions. I don't know if people think it's best to keep it on Slugggy or New Year's Day or what. Of course, there are certain issues that need to be overcome. I would say that it was for the best of the council that people would break off their manics and sit down looking for some kind of reconciliation, I don't really want to talk about negotiations, but I want to know if there's anything on it. I have not exactly been offered what I understand, but I do not sit for a council meeting and therefore do not know all about it. [[The president calls.]] But as I say, here people aren't quite wet behind their ears, especially members of the House of Independence and Proclamation, and they know that this is the time to sit down and talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u186	Madam President. Hv. paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason always comes up here like some coral boy and talks down to us at the government stand, saying that when we're discussing budget for 2016, we're having a filing. It's so far from here. We simply have strong opinions and strong feelings in this matter that we naturally consider to be spoken of and returned to society, how the right government resides among groups that we should take care of, the elderly, and the microbubbles, and so many other things. How sad to know that these young men, the highest! Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. Secretary of the budget and what. The head of the Parliament of the Prosecutors, has no greater understanding than this of the ideals of the elderly and desperate, that they are always some leftover size to push aside and otherwise to come. It would be interesting to know whether the ranks of a group of candidates who, with many fine people, hear no voices in that direction, would want to do something better. Have candidates really become so stiff - necked? [[The president calls.]] Different from me before, the Socialism Party was ever referred to.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u187	Madam President. Then I'll add a peck to point out something else, what I thought already. A member of Parliament and a council chairman of the Front Party Ásmund Hædson spoke up here. Is it really the one entry each time? In the debate on the terms of the terms of the terms of advanced age and disability, the chairman of the Organization for the Organization's Office on the matter of what Reykjavíkurburg is doing? I don't think it's a very objective or a good reason for this discussion, and I just want to ask the president to encourage the members of the council to do so, instead of bringing some misgivings, to sit down and discuss things seriously and without saying how we can uninvolved from this and end a council in any way. This will be the only way people will sit down and talk to each other.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u188	A respectable president. It has been repeated on the members of the House of forwarders, and it was the same with regard to standing by. Ásmundur Friðriksson's administry of what has been done for the elderly and desperate, as well as for any man who is heading for the next few years, 300 fars. K. The minimum. It's happened in the middle of nowhere. paritaprevir Lára Arnardóttir. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, who. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson and that's the way you could keep counting. Of course, it is painful for the government to be in a discussion that has long since been emptied and cannot be called a filibuster. At the very least, this is an old - fashioned method of working for the government side of the business, not to be prepared to sit down and negotiate when this discussion is over. It hasn't been. Of course, there are exceptions, so I'll take to film what you've felt at the moment. Councilmen who have shown a willingness to sit down and discuss when the discussion can end. But that is not true of other political parties at the council. It is also remarkable to observe how the spirit of government reacts when you point out the obvious, what is happening in the city under the direction of these groups, where the process of cutting down is being done against the microorganisms and the elderly. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] What I was pointing out earlier is this twin and this old - fashioned practice, which is the policy of government. That's what's sad, respectable President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u189	A respectable president. In view of the words here brought about misjudgment by members of the council groups, I have not taken this matter into account in any way and therefore have not been wronged, nor intend to be wronged. However, I don't know that there are any special negotiations going on. There are two issues that have been discussed, we can say three, and in some way we need to resolve what goes on at the government stand, that is whether a prime minister of education who runs with a government on the rise in radio fees, and whether more money will be placed in the Land Hospital, this is what humans have been saying. According to this, the minister of education is still working out and the health issues involved in an effort to examine certain factors. This is what takes place behind the scenes, as people sometimes talk about. But I agree with what. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, we are here many older than two winters, and we know that in one way or another, we negotiate in every way we complete Congress. [[The president calls.]] It's always been done. [[Up front.]] However, this is not necessarily done by people winding down from today's financial bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u190	A respectable president. I can tell you what. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller said there wasn't a meeting in a greater part of the budget at lunchtime. I can also repeat what has often been said here that there is no offer on the way to the government. That's why we can continue our discussion of the budget. This masquerade, which has rightly become a matter of this economy, is now a matter of moving a research agency under the Ministry of Development. Here is a request for the bill to go to the committee. I encourage Congress to complete 2nd. on the budget bill and refers it to a committee. Let's finish this discussion, let's get the story inside a committee, and we'll discuss it there. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u191	V.E.G. President. Because of the comments made by several executives on whether or not an offer is being made, I want to say in my part: I don't think the government is waiting for any offer from the government. We're waiting for the conversation and reconciliation, and trying to reach a conclusion, as usual, as I think I will allow myself to say at all times during this season, it has already been done at the end of Congress. [[Up front.]] I think it's relatively easy, but the obsession with government officials stops it. I wanted to object, because the mayor of Reykjavík can't answer for himself here. I noticed, and it is probably in accordance with the Council that the city of Reykjavík is reimbursed 14 billion because of the increase in pay during the year. However, this is not done by a government fund. A General Assembly makes other conditions for society. In this regard, the section of the Committee's Committee on the topic is referred to and left off. It is said that this could become a currency of no less than 126 billion dollars. [[The president calls.]] If this is done, the more part will tell you that there will be the most infringement in terms of due time. [[The president calls.]] The majority of the legal committees have stopped and left this case. I don't think it's acceptable. It's in the big picture. It needs to be displayed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u192	Madam President. I'd like to start by praying. paritaprevir Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir, a council member of the Independence Party, is sorry. It was unfair of me to accuse her of misbehavioring here in this discussion, for she certainly has not shown any harm. It wasn't fair for me to take her under the hat of making her fall under the fact that I thought it was the Speaker of the House of forwarders. paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason, present a misdemeanor in this discussion. That's why I want to use this scene to pray. paritaprevir Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir is sorry for my words. She didn't deserve it. I thought it would be nice to hear that a minister had some health issues. It would also be good to know when we expect to hear about when they have finished speaking. Mustn't this happen while we're still discussing the budget? Otherwise, it must be rather unremarkable.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u193	Madam President. It was a pleasure to hear what happened. The procurator of the Independence Party, and it's good to know that some matters have gone into the water. This is so that a discussion will result in success. I believe in some aspect of that happening. It is also true that sitting down and speaking together does not mean that the demands of the government will be fully met. That's what we're aware of. But we need to talk. It's just the nature of the time we're facing each year with regard to budgets and, unfortunately, have been over many years or decades, which is the case. I don't know. Congress members of the mail we receive from older ones and microplies who announce that they will be standing outside the Senate daily until the council closes their request that the increases they feel are in debt this year that we will need to discuss with the budget bill will be minimally in line with the lowest increase in salary last May. That's what it's all about. That's one of the things we're here to talk about. [[The president calls.]] Whether or not people want to call it a filibuster or not, I just don't care. We're trying to achieve some improvement on the budget bill and I think there's something moving.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u194	Madam President. It's certainly my wish, as it did for other people. U.S. senators say that something is moving in the issues we have fought for. The majority of the cases are ideal for the elderly and disability of the land, and then the U.S. radio's affairs need to be handled, of course. I've asked the president to put me on the rosary, and I'd like to ask the President to see that he has the highest order. The Minister of Education and Culture will be in the audience when I give my speech because I will talk about the Kingdom News and the state of it and what the consequences will be for the service of the Kingdom News, especially through the country. I'd also like to talk about the affairs of the National Library, where the head of the legal committee is also missing the highest level. Secretary of education regarding their residences.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u195	V.E.G. President. There's some vague report that the government is having something to realize that handling the budget is not quite working. But I want to agree with what. paritaprevir It's a Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter. We've put the focus on pension insurance, Land hospital and State Radio. But the Ministers of these seminaries, the highest. Secretary of education, the highest. Ministers of society and housing and the Supreme Minister. Healthcare Minister, the discussion has not shown here unless they have come to vote for a longer conference. That's when they've been on the watch. But they are not on the watch to discuss their own lawsuits, cases that lie under damage if the suggestions of the greater part are made. So I would like these three ministers to be here for the discussion and to be a little reformed and to be on their side of the litigation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u196	The president has received wishes from you. Parliamentaries and put them in touch.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u197	A respectable president. The point is that there is some vague news about the budget. It's not. That was so that the more part would sit down at lunch today, but it didn't happen. We'll probably sit down here this afternoon. Of course, we need to prepare for our follow - up opinions. I hope you're not getting your men worked up here even though more of the legal committee is meeting. When the matter comes back to the committee after the end of this discussion, which is uncertain of the time, the smaller part has not yet told us what needs to be spoken for a long time here, we need to have some overtime done so that the matter goes faster to the 3rd. I can fully confirm that there is no such thing as news of any kind, since the matter is primarily at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u198	Madam President. Was a what? paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir to say that there is nothing to work on seeing the end of this work here and how things are going to be done? That's how I understood it, Madam President, and it really disappoints me. I hope that the more part of a meeting as much as possible is to try to figure out what is up. But I wondered, " Could it be that there is so much controversy within the governments that nothing continues to go on? ' It goes very clearly towards the highest. The Minister of Education and Culture where he will not be allowed to bring a bill into the council. It's stopped by the council and probably certain members there. And more of the budget is up front at the highest level. Minister when it comes to the National Library's policy. Something great is happening. [[The president calls.]] That's probably the explanation for this roundabout and how things are all stuck here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u199	A respectable president. I can testify that there is no quarrel with the council or with the government except those that show up from this platform. There is mainly a controversy in the memory of the section that is being made up at the council. Here's the debate. Here are the big words, so they're completely corrected. paritaprevir Harðardóttir Hardydirdóttir told me before I did. As mentioned in the news, a great deal has been reached between the state and the local community. Contracts were made on the affairs of disabled people. Among other things, we in the majority of the section are preparing texts in terms of the latter opinion of the 3rd Environment Committee. But surely, a respectable president, the situation will not continue because the government will not be able to tell us how much she needs to speak about. The main concern of the head of the budget board is that it is being met and prepared even more well. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u200	Madam President. Hv. The chairman of the legal committee said that the problem was that we in our smaller parts didn't want to say anything about how long we were going to talk. We will talk as long as we need to, until the more part of the council is ready to sit down with us and review our main emphasis on being a fair bargainment to the pensioners back to May 1, adequate funding for the Hospital and adequate funding for the State Radio. We stand in line for this matter, for the sake of public interest, and for the civilized and successful society of having these factors okay. We have many things to do, for our ideal fire burns in our hearts. We'll have no problem with that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u201	V.E.G. President. Before I have my case and the clock starts, I'd like to ask the highest. The President for my request of the highest order. The Minister of Social Affairs will be there when I give my speech because I intend to present him some very important questions on the subject, i.e. the age of the age and the disability of the soul.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u202	The president may inform you that messages have been submitted.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u203	Yes, but as a speaker who is about to give his third speech, it is not enough for a message to be delivered. Is the Minister coming, or is he not coming? That is actually my basic question because I would rather not begin my talk until the minister is in the hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u204	The president reveals that the answer has not been received from the highest level. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u205	Then may I ask that my time be stopped and we wait for a minister to give us an answer? I believe the petition was made on sufficient notice, but I respect it to the President and the council's staff that the ministry was made to minister, but I don't respect the Minister's lack of respect for the council, I don't like it. But I have more speeches, and they only increase the number of those I have to take until the minister of that court comes in and represents his case. The reason for this question, a respectable president, is exactly because I notice that management members, I don't know how to say it without getting a bell, delivering styles that I feel all are the same, reading some style about what has been done during the election season, etc. I feel that some executives have this argument to say that it has been so intense for the elderly and the elderly during the term that there is nothing more to be done. That's the conversation I'd like to have with the Minister of the jury responsible for this case. A respectable president. The fact is, despite all the percentages of government officials, they speak most of a percentage, talking about a 17.1% increase, they are being misled and observed. They are being deceived because within that number there is a 9.7% rise that will appear on January 1. The facts are simply this honored president, whom we shall review. Let's take special care of the disability benefits. During the time of this government from the summer of 2013 and with the actions that were then under way, and the government surmises so greatly that it met the elderly and the desperate have received 10 of you. K. monthly increase. I'll say and write 10 you. K. It's misleading to talk about percentage increases. We can talk about this in terms of Presidential and Minister's wages, etc., that's a lot of numbers, but a relatively high percentage on the top of little and nothing is an increase. That's what makes these 10 stars. K. an increase in the terms of the season. If the government is pleased with that, I'll repeat what I've said before, we'll only know that the management members think they've found the wide banks that are going to attack now to make up the budgets for the next year or to do the rest of the budget for this year. [[Up front.]] A respectable president. I challenge the chairman of the budget board, anyway. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, to ask for an answer and come back and discuss this case because that's the only chance I have to have a conversation with a dog. A senator. Where are the senators who were in the hall earlier sitting on the welfare committee? I'm gonna name two senators of the Foreign Party, okay? paritaprevir Elisu Lára Arnardóttir, who often comes up here in the council and presents very good talks about insurance, housing, and so on. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir who also hasn't spoken up. These are members of a welfare committee that should be concerned about the interests of the elderly and the poor and those who may be least of their members in society. The fact is, the fact that I was saying this about a dollar raise, and one more fact is that the increase in January 1st of last year by the government, which was 3%, makes 4 of you. K. by taxes, that's all. May I remind you, a respectable president, on the same day, the government groups raised a tribute tax on food? I allow myself to claim that the 120 you have. K. as a result of internal taxation, increased house warming, increased insurance, telephone, and housing, i.e. Real estate or rent. 4 Yous, this amount. K. In a month, it's not good enough for this. A respectable president. Do we need to discuss more the reasonable requirement here that causes the greatest conflict between government and government today and that is what we are to settle down and try to make peace? It is a retrospective increase, a self-recognised retrospective increase in social security payments for the elderly and disability. I took this example, 10 of you. K. ... inalltimeand4you. K. This year, which vanished like dew before the sun. On the same day as the elderly and poorer, the higher government groups received food taxes. We can play with numbers. 60◯70 you have. K. Food expenditures per month are probably not high, but a 5% increase is 43 yous. K. increase in the year. Let me remind you that the increase was about 48 yards. K. This year? It's gone. That's what we're talking about with 2nd. The budget, and we'll discuss 3rd. Funds for this year and as long as we need to, until the government recognizes this attack on the members of society that has to be remembered and that is what needs to be fixed. Then there will be action as soon as possible. A respectable president. I have an article from the Chairman of the Independence Party, written five minutes before 2013's election on the justice of the elderly. [[Up front.]] It is remarkable that this article does not mention disability. It says: ▪ The elderly should enjoy their early years with dignity. Yes, of course I agree. It even says, by permission of the president: The suicide party will improve the status of the elderly. Reinvigorate income connections and help self - help by allowing all over 70 years of age to earn money without impairment. During the 2013 operations, this 10 is included. K. increase. Allowing the elderly to work at something after 70 years without making money, yeah, that's fine, I'm very into it. [[Upwards: good.]] But, a respectable president, this is not the case with microbubbles. Like many of them, they have no opportunity to go to the job market and earn money, and they commit the hunger lice that the rulers now take from their fists a little bit. I also have a letter that was written just later, that is probably three minutes before elections, from Bjarni Benediktsson, president of the Independence Party, who was sent to all the elderly in the country, all of whom, in order to mislead them and say, "We're going to improve everything else, etc. None of this has worked out. Wait a minute. legislatures in the hall. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson: Why don't you come up against me, let's have a conversation about this matter? That's our only chance.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u206	It's enough that your friends on a professional committee are listening...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u207	A respectable president. It's not just my friends from a professional committee, it's also a partner, I challenge him. I also have an open letter written by an invalid to Bjarni son of Benediktsson. Have directors read this letter? I'm asking why. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir: has a why. A senator read this letter? Has she been putting herself in the position of these people in society for five minutes? Can she imagine what the situation is after that?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u208	A complete find on the budget board...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u209	I'm still encouraging. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir to come back and discuss these matters with me. A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir speaks a lot of speech. I don't care what it's called, Mr. Honorable President, I'm so offended by the way older and desperate people are treated that I will deliver many talks from this case to discuss this matter. [[Up front.]] I will not stop until ministers come here, so fuck off to join the Ministerial class, and sit in for answers and answers. It's not like yesterday when Illugi Gunnarsson, chief. Minister of Education, came over here to review a speech and questions for Birgitta Jónsdóttir on the State Radio, sat and answered nothing. A respectable president. To the shame of this government, it is one of the things needed to correct. I'd trust myself to do that, a respectable president, and I'll say it again and again because I've been there before, and I'm telling the government, now think about it. We have often had to sit down and reason. [[The president calls.]] Everybody's never getting what they want. Everyone has to give something up. But we can work something out. This is one of the issues that have been discussed here on the issues of the Land Hospital that need to be corrected. [[The president calls.]] Now we can afford these matters so well. [[The president calls.]] That is why, in fact, we are even more angry about this unfair attitude that government officials use in the land as elderly and desperate, as well as in the health system.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u210	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller for his speech and for taking up the requirement, which includes Iceland's Scaring Alliance, the entire community of disabled and desperate people in the country, has presented, and thus obtains the requirements of the society that can rightly be called a labor union disability in Iceland, into the council chamber and the discussion. Hv. In his speech the amount of money spent on pension recipients was not enough to provide. He identified factors that could be said to have made it even more difficult for pension workers to support themselves as well as for others who have small amounts of money to play for a living, such as an increase in food tax. There have been some changes in the tax and customs environment, but these have not exactly resulted in the help of this group. I'd like to ask you what. A senator is already making all kinds of changes on the system whether it would be a good thing to make changes. For example, there is now a full account of worth tax collections of drugs and tools. Would it not be something we would need to consider on this variable? This would help to increase the provision of these groups. Is that not one of the things we should think about in this discussion? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u211	V.E.G. President. Yes, we should, but we are to do so in my opinion that the elderly and the desperate have a decent salary to participate in, and then the insurance system, of course, comes in there, helps tools, and things like that. You're right. A senator says, and I have often listened to both the elderly and the desperate talk about it, that the full worth tax of drugs is very burdensome, that is indeed true. I can agree with that, too, as a boy. A senator put it quite well, that the Quantum Community is a labor force of disability. That's right, just like the older citizen's national union is an older citizen's union. The contract is the highest. Government. We sitting in this hall, 63 senators, are part of it. Hv. paritaprevir At the height of his command, Hjörvar's Helgi put it well. The prime minister would really be the chairman of the advice of the older men and the desperate. That's what we're criticizing here, and what we're talking about, a respectable president, is that the Davíð Council of Gunnlaugsson Gunuga's son has concluded that the lowest disability improvements have increased by 10 of you. K. during the whole season of the month. That's all there is to it, by taxes. There's nothing to talk about being 17 up there. "K., something like that, when the state takes everything to himself. That's why I'd like to shoot it in here, a respectable president, that the retrospective increase of 2015, with the most debate in mind, would cost one six billion if I recall correctly. But the financial expenses for that will be only 4.5 billion at the most because of the government's receiving tax from all the added tax, so that is all there is now. If this year's budget becomes 2,335 billion, as I predict, it is certainly a table for a carrier. We, who had to go through the evil march, said that we would cut down both the elderly and the poor, and raise the taxes, and do the same and this to save the land from bankruptcy immediately after a collapse, said we would bring it back. [[The president calls.]] It is my conviction to speak for it here because there is now a table for a table and we want to return it. [[The president calls.]] We want to keep our promises.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u212	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I have, like, a what? A senator, sitting here in the hall listening to the discussion, and we have given reasons why we feel it is not only natural but also fair that pensioners will be paid their compensation again, just as other groups have received paybacks this year. The respondents of government officials, to the extent that they have risked their discussion, are always on the way to some way that disability will come into the future. I'd like to link it to the state finance policy we've just been discussing. There's a lot of trouble with the highest plan. A government is still reducing the extent of the average consumption and has been mentioned in that topic, but at least tens of billions in the years to come, depending on the year we use as a reference. At the same time, we know that the number of older cities in this country is increasing in the years to come. It is not a contradiction. Is it possible for the members of the board to say that we can't go to these increases now, that this will all come into the future, as soon as it is the plan of the government to reduce the consumption of the combination? Is that credible? Counts 'em out. If this is the big plan, would a senator be able to do something for a pensioner in the future? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u213	V.E.G. President. Contract agreements made since collapse, and especially the last with considerable increases in pay, are agreements in which we take part in adapting the Icelandic society to the values today after the collapse. I don't think the dollar's going to get any stronger. 7% of this year's scholarship is because of external circumstances and a great number of tourists. If the harbor bank wasn't so active in the currency market and bought a lot of currency, the walk-in number would be lower. Therefore, the government, the government, as an agreement with the elderly and desperate, must do the same. We also need to increase the pay of the elderly and the desperate to match the future vision of an Icelandic crown, which many have so many with the number of gangs, and that the exports are needed. Then we have to admit about the collective agreements of this year and perhaps, in particular, the collective agreements that the government itself has made with a huge party which certainly deserved and needed to be obtained, that this too must be done for the elderly and the desperate. Then I just want to mention it once more, a respectable president, that in 2016, the klundering continues, because there is also a 5.5% increase in the general market in May or June next year, which is not being added, and it doesn't exist. A respectable president. My final words are that I noticed that the council members who were in the hall, and I challenged to come up against me to discuss this matter, even though it was just in opposition, even though they didn't speak, have given up on it. I'm sorry, I don't have any more answers. [[The president calls.]] Hv. The members of Vigdís Hauksdóttir, Lára Larra Arnardóttir, Silja Dögg Ginsóttir, Jón Gunnson, og Páll Jóhann Paulson, what shall I say? Didn't they scare people back? [[The president calls.]] You don't want to talk about this? I can see why people have bad taste in their mouths, but I know why. þm. Jón Gunnarsson is on his way to the end of the list. [[The president calls.]] That's where I'll come back.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u214	A respectable president. I come up to ask for the highest. The minister of social affairs comes here and reviews these matters with us because many claims have been made in this chair. It would be good if she would come in and discuss the situation and tell us why people are not going to try to raise older citizens and disability who have to live at 170 you., 190 yous. And if she feels that it's okay and whether she's ready to have a conversation about making some plan into the future about how we raise these groups so that they can live with dignity in our society. This is important because we all get hurt that people have to live on 190 o'clock. K. and housing and other costs need to be paid, and we all know that this is not possible. So I hope to the highest. Let the minister speak to us, and let us talk to him about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u215	V.E.G. President. Now I kind of take advantage of my position to talk about the President's conference board because I want to use this opportunity and thank you very much. Minister of Social Affairs for being here. In fact, I missed her coming back earlier. I had a short talk with the highest. Minister and I'd like to say that she has presented evidence for her absence here that I consider completely valid and would not have asked to the highest degree. A minister would listen to my speech or accept questions if I had known them. Still, I thank the highest. Secretary of finance for being here and notices that she's going to... [[Up front.]] [[The point is: Even if she was a financial minister, we wouldn't mind.]] Yes, it would be better if the social minister and the minister of finance were the same person now, then these contracts might have gone better. A respectable president. I have received a complete explanation, and I would not have requested the presence of the Minister in the meeting if I had known it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u216	Madam President. It is a pleasure to see that the ministers react and come and listen, and it would be best for them to participate. The issues close to the minister that we've discussed, of course, are the issues of disability and older citizens. There's clearly a disagreement between the government and these groups on the interpretation of calculations and other such, I think that's the case. Here, ministers and their foot soldiers have given a certain number, which the Quantum Community and older citizens criticize, both before their introduction and believe they are less than they should. That's what it's all about, that there's gonna be an increase of crowning to be the same as in underpayers. I'm very important to be past the highest level. Minister to see if there is a plan going on, because a certain candidate's will has been made available to improve the terms to 300 levels. K. Is there a plan for this? It would be interesting to see it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u217	A respectable president. I'm sorry I didn't get here earlier, so I could have answered those questions as well. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller was included in his talk. I would like to take advantage of this opportunity, although I do not have strong comments to the President's conference board and say that the policy of the Agency is to improve the minimum. This was concluded at the last platoon assembly, and it will improve this year, be at a higher level of more than 1 you. K. higher, and it appears that all presupposed to be back in the year. I would also like to point out that there are many other factors that I have placed great emphasis on in order to improve the quality of their materials and to be found in the budget bill. These include increased housing support to tens, to develop, to fund donations for the remuneration fund, and is the first time that donations are being made to help people to be more effective, and they will be presented between the 2nd and 3rd districts. The agreement now available between the state and rural society for contributions to the disabled.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u218	A respectable president. There is good reason to be concerned about the position in which the greater part of the government holds the economic situation of the nation and the state of the money when we are about 2. budgets shortly after special discount agreements have been reported with foreign claimors in renovations on broken - down banks. [[...you wanted to pay all the money out of the country.]] Which is known then we agreed in the last spring on a so-called stable tax that would have returned to a government fund in 2016 a substantial amount of money that would certainly have been remembered in a government fund. So it is true that despite the good agreement here on the shape of spring law, the government in the fall, despite its many warnings and comments, will go on a campaign to negotiate with these foreign demands, if they had not already been signed in June or spring, on a special discount against this tax system, i.e. that the foreign claimors, sometimes known as vultures when it was suitable for the last campaign, will be released from the Icelandic economy before anyone else in Iceland, before the public, before the capital. They were given a substantial discount, so hundreds of billions of dollars from the stable tax run against negotiating the case. This was done by the government with the indicators that with these treaties Iceland's interests were fully assured for the long future. What happens next? Yes, next, the administrative body comes up here just a few weeks later after he has given this hundred billion discount in dealing with foreign demands, with the evidence that we are fully assured for the long future, and suddenly he says that there is not enough money left to work in the Land Hospital. Also, there is no money to raise the money of the elderly and the poor in the same way as it does for the rest of the country. This must be a real concern. If a government fund is so weak after a discount deal with the foreign demands that government officials feel that they are not worth the expenses of a government fund, you must ask: Is there a table? Today, what the governor has called the ◯blage of charity. Here are some practical outside conditions that are not in our hands. Oil prices, fishing markets, energy in Iceland, and other such factors are useful to us and make it much more damaging to us now than in the average year. If the management departments do not have the necessary business of the national hospital at such times, you must ask: Have not the foreign demands been too far overdone? Has it not been a mistake to give them a hundred billion discounts and to let them out of the country before anyone else? Would it not have been far wiser to let them pay the stable tax, making it a lot of money into the budget in the coming year and then be in a position to do the necessary things, as well as having any table for the table? This is what I'm saying. It's not that it's best for the executives to come here and say they like to do the same with the elderly and the poor, but it's just not money to do it so quickly. Or that they would like to secure the land hospital, but they just don't have the money. They have just given a special discount to these foreign demands on the presuppose that there is plenty of room here for the long future. Then it is to emphasize that all of this is a matter of political decisions and priorities. The prime minister of Davíð Gunuga's Gunnlaugsson has lighted a wealth tax of himself by not extending it to millions of dollars each year, but he has no confidence in spending money to raise the wages of the elderly and the poor in the same way that others in the country did. The wealth tax returned to the state budget of over 10 billion dollars. In this way, the cost of meeting microorganisms and the elderly is over 6 billion. V.E.G. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. Financial minister and their members of the administration team have all this ideal period had the political option to even do both at the same time; significantly reduce the wealth tax of five points. The richest homes in the country, yet they have to raise the wages of the elderly and the desperate from the same time. Similarly, the board of directors has made a decision to reduce the fishing costs completely without need, thus creating themselves a situation that they now complain about, not to have for their good will. We must encourage those in charge, more than Ásmundur Friðriksson, who, of course, is a reason to thank for his declarations on this matter, he has come to our conclusion in the smaller part, so it has been taken, but at the same time, especially the senators of the forward Party, are urging to show that there is going to be blood in someone after the Independence Party over the forward party in the food tax business last year. Then you thought that the group sensed that it was called after people there tried to get up on social emphasis or emphasis for the public in the country. That is why it is urgent to consider a 2nd bill. if the advance party was on our side, at least To make these, of course, changes to the bill. It is only a matter of priorities in income and expenses to have enough money to do the same with the elderly and the desperate and the rest of the country. Nobody is asking to do better with them than anyone else in the country, just that they get the same treatment as anyone else in the country. What I wanted then in the second part of my speech is that the blackmailes of the greater part remind me of the former prime minister Davíð Oddsson and his behavior in the years before collapse, the instigation of politicians, which, in turn, led to the collapse of our system of government. A message sent by the rulers that agencies that do not allow human will to be cut down and sold, that if they are in good good standing, if they are in charge, if they are in charge of their oversight, if they are held by democratic debates, or if they do not follow those governments, they will also feel the knives of the government. Why don't we just shut down a national interest? Someone told me. It was exactly this message out to the system: Don't you dare contradict the views of the dominant sir, then you will feel the water. When you look at the cutoff to the U.S. agent, this is the case. I ask careful members of the board to see that the matter is not being carried out in this way but that a parapolitical solidarity established by a board of administration and monitoring committees will be carried out and the role of the agent will be corrected. Of course, the administrative part must show minimal effort to tolerate coverage on the Government Radio, without any intention of cutting the radio charge for revenge because the government's bad deeds are reported. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u219	A respectable president. After this talk, why not? paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar gives me an unusual chance to ask about something that has long come to my attention. He brings charges against ministers, such as those that they removed a wealth tax from themselves by not extending it. It is now in the matter of that government as a matter of course. A senator was involved in creating this mass - speaking wealth tax, and it was laid on three years of age. There is also a strange judgment of the Supreme Court that may have many words, and I don't have time to discuss now. It may well be that if the discussion is delayed for many more days, I will judge the subject because once again a wealth tax is debated that the wealth tax may be able to stand because it is temporary. Time ran out, and the government now which lifted that wealth tax never made no attempt to do so, but he just ran his course as originally intended for him for three years. So I ask why. Councilman: Why did you good people not have this money tax over time because it is so much economic saviour and justice? You had four years now, huh? Councilmen, to put him on forever. It could then be said that he would be removed, not that he would have his final years with the rules of a former government. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u220	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. In terms of the wealth tax, it was put on to equal lengths of currency. It was a provision taken because of a financial emergency in Iceland, which explained that the Council had had had to set laws that prohibited people from taking their money away from the country. They're still in effect. The currency capitals had been extended, and of course the wealth taxes were to be extended in the same way. Then you're right next to what you're doing. A member of the council that this strengthened the legal support of the tithing tax. This may have been primarily because he was placed on something significant. Perhaps that was why I could have made sure that the government could have struck two flies in one blow, that she could have dropped the tax and cut off the bait so that he could be a permanent tax, for perhaps he walked a little too far in a few things, but at the same time kept his lung of the income from that five you. The richest homes in the country to support the raise of older ones and poorer ones in the land in the same way that others do. This is where I think it's true too. A senator has to look around the world to see that 1% of the richest people are constantly gathering more money at the expense of the poor. Truly, property taxes are among the few tools that we can use to prevent something against the disturbing trend for the public economy that the rich grow richer and the poor get poorer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u221	A respectable president. As long as he lives, he learns. There is nowhere to find a rabble about it in a paper with a bill to legalize a wealth tax from the middle of 2009 that a wealth tax and currency head is placed in and monitored in some way. Not a word or a cane. So this is the first time I've heard this relationship. There is no mention in the judgment that entered the Supreme Court of that relationship. So I'm saying that you can come up with this kind of follow-up and make you believe it's the truth, but I don't think it is. I will discuss this wealth tax and various incentives to penalties and restrictions so that no human will ever have anything. Still, I still cannot answer the question: Why was that unreceptive tax not laid? There's no problem with the problem in the report. But now it's suddenly discovered that the bait is on it. I've just never heard that before. I thought all the work of the last government was flawless, that's a lot of confessions here. But as I say, I'm no closer. I've asked a big question here, and I get an answer in currency capitals. Not a word of it at the highest. Secretary of finance who offered the bill. I don't think I have it any further.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u222	A respectable president. I'll personally give Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir to say hello from what happened. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason's son that all works of her former government were flawless. Well, that's a nice thing to say, but I still think it's a little unrealistic. Although many good things were done during the last terms, there were, of course, various things that can be criticized. What it's all about is not what it's about. paritaprevir Will Bjarnason has heard somewhere, or not heard, or now for the first time. It's simply about that when times are difficult, such as those in 2009, and as still in many Icelandic homes, why? A senator, it is only natural for those who have been carrying the banks to do more than others. The 5 of you. The richest homes built 10 billion especially in the form of a wealth tax were probably and I'm sure it was. There is plenty to be done to the 10 billion people, especially when basic services in the Land Hospital cannot be provided simply for the benefit of the elderly and the disability of the others. We're not talking about any demand for them to improve beyond us or to be raised especially because they're low, just to be able to see their dignity in making them rise as much as the others. As it turns out, it's only a political decision for a why. Senator to protect 5 of you. The richest homes we made paid taxes, but we withhold the elderly and the microlooms from the same time that the rest of us have enjoyed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u223	A respectable president. Here is a little talk as if the present government is not setting priorities in behalf of the problems most critical, such as health, Landspionage, and especially the interests of the elderly and the desperate. Let us briefly review what has been done in two and a half years, the time during which this government has been ruling. The immediate priority was to reduce the rate of failure as reformers in the days of the former government. As early as the summer of 2013, the rule was taken away: Pension funds lost the basics of life. It was just a few weeks after the government went away, which is now expedient by keeping this group in first place. The autopayer market was raised. A cross-requisition agreement for improvement in the social security of pensions was extended. The cut-off rate of income insurance was reduced to 38.35% on January 1, 2014. Hence, the cutting off of the last government has been almost complete. This means an improvement of 7.4 billion. ... highertoday thanit'dbe. It's a matter of count-ins. If we go over what is planned for this year and next year, the improvement will increase by 14.2 billion on January 1, 2016. The increase is 9.7%. Inside that number, there is $3.9 billion. increase in pay development during the year. This increases to 4.3 billion the elderly and the poor first received in January 2014, a 3% increase in pre-employment patients. A total increase in older people's improvements and disability due to pay development during 2015 is therefore 8.2 billion. If we take up the elderly's benefits and disability from January 2015 to January 2016, this total will be about 18.5 billion dollars. Together, action in the terms of the year's election will be 26.8 billion higher than it would have been, which would have been directed to the elderly and to the desperate. It is very difficult to pretend that this group does not have priorities. Do we need to do better? Yes, we need to do better. I think we all agree on that. And we want to do better. To that end, we need to, as I came into my previous speech, remember, of course, how we build a welfare community; industrial creation and valuable things in our community, so that we can trust the welfare community, trust the foundations. It may not be necessary to go back in time at an assembly to review how the discussion has been about this aspect of the matter. Of course, we find great joy in the way evolution has actually been in our professional market. There's a huge bomb in the tourism area. They are taking over a number of trades. Though there is certainly a storm cloud on the horizon in that area, a marine bus has been relatively strong. Evolution has been a success. How will we look to the future? How are we going to trust the rest of the country, to build the solid foundations of society? This will be about the use of our energy resources. It is nowhere so obvious, and nowhere else is our experience so clear that the innovation, the development of industry based on electrical efficiency - I'm not necessarily talking about big industry to be stated, it's always being turned out as if they're talking about an aluminium in each event. I've spoken against, for example, members of the North. For example, I consider it a very unrealistic idea north of Skaga Beach. The diverse industry, a wide variety of job opportunities across the country, based on energy efficiency, is the only thing we can look to as a real-based structure thing in the future. Seafood will not play that role. As a result, technology development and development are becoming at the point where we will no doubt see further integration in fish farming. Travel services are distributed in different parts of the country, they are also distributed over the year, and although they have become very strong, they are certainly of great importance and are not going to be the main basis for dwelling in the scattered areas. This is accomplished by the use of energy resources. This is what happens when we take advantage of the electrical transport system so that electricity can be ensured in many parts of the country, creating young people with a wide variety of educational opportunities to live anywhere in the country. This has been handled by the council. It is exactly these classes that now criticize us for not having more money between our hands or other priorities, putting more on health matters, more in the elderly, and in the poor, and more fines, these groups have put a stone in our path when it comes to trying to promote society's foundations. People must be parties to themselves and examine the overall picture when considering these factors. This is the situation with the government of Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Guinlason and Bjarni son of Benediktsson. These are the steps that have been taken, and further steps are in store. I told you before that we could do better and that we wanted to do better. We'll do better. Are we on that road? Yeah, we're on that road. No one needs to get involved in the thought that it is the clear will of this government to continue in that course. We will do so by strengthening our income, trusting even more the basis for society, and thus making the knot grow, more so, more so as to do better in various areas. But let's just go over the fence here outside and visit the people who are critical of us today, home in Reykjavík, where they're in charge, where they're in charge, the same people who criticize us here. When I watched the conversation last night or last night, I could hear one of them. The chairman of the government stand quotes from Björgvin Guðmundsson, former General of the German Party. [[Take it up and down to the town councilman.]] And the Councillor. I have a fistula from him from earlier this year, where he says, among other things, by permission of a president: Today, the situation and election of senior citizens in Reykjavík are missing, in any way, for the city to be considered an age - old city. Thus, Reykjavíkurburg has to get involved in the affairs of older citizens, if she will achieve this goal. He's talking about the situation in nursing homes, and then he says, by permission of a president: The domestic care situation is also not good enough. This activity is highly subjugated. ... The city runs 17 social centers around the city. It's good. But over the last few years, cases have developed in this community center, that the city of Reykjavík has taken care of funding for this activity. The city has canceled payments for guidance at various courses... Low - paying people are driven by social centers. The tents that the city collects from its older citizens are not very high. ... But seniors suffer a lot when these charges rise. There are many examples, of the fact that older citizens have quit this social work because of the rise in registrations. So he says in the conclusion of the article that was written earlier this year: ▪ If the city was to be called an age - old city, the city would have to get involved in the affairs of the elderly. I can go on. Thus, many older citizens in High Search, Saturday, and Bustland no longer receive a visit from their once - a - month community service to the city. This is the result of the city's poor financial situation. The head of the Service Centers for Saturday and Hurfatis says that the ministry can make a difference in people's lives, to make for their self - respect. The staff are not happy enough to be affected in this way, but it is now time for endurance. In fact, it points out that the people could be replaced by so - called replacements for dusting and scavengering. The city of Reykjavík may just want to solve the way older citizens communicate with them with some robotic reform. Then one older woman contacted Reykjavíkurburg for this, and she was kindly advised to contact her children, perhaps by coming and cleaning their home. In a Capacent service survey, only about 19% were satisfied with the services of disabled persons and 27% were satisfied with service to senior citizens in Reykjavíkurburg, who are severely beaten in this Capacent service survey. When asked about serving as children's families, older citizens, and disabled people, the city of Reykjavík falls to the lowest, compared with the 19 largest rural communities in the country. Similarly, the capital city is in its lowest position when it comes to the services of high school, nursery, waste management, and sports facilities. This is the result of a service survey based on questions asked to the city and to the inhabitants of other rural communities. Reykjavíkurburg will also be at the bottom when asked for the whole company's services. In view of the city's inhabitants, the service rendered in the city is unacceptable, and it is certainly not comparable to the services given to other rural areas in the capital area. And now, the latest danger has been to provide older cities in Grafarvogur with warm food on weekends. Now they can eat what's out cold or what's cold, you might want to say. They do not get hot food and have to make sure to warm it up themselves. This has been denied by signing. This is the situation in the world of their dreams, members of the United States, left green, Pirata, and Birts of the future, who run the city of Reykjavík, the groups that are holding much criticism of us. They claim that in the second word, they focus on this sect, but there is a great twin in this because their home, where they have the opportunity to make decisions, to do good, to set priorities for these groups, these groups are simply downright down. If we look at their actions during the last term at a council, what is the credibility of the above proverbs? How can we be sure that if these groups were in power, they would act in comparison with the omens they present today? Other factors come to mind when reviewing the situation in Reykjavík. Hv. paritaprevir Robert Marshall said last night that we have a conflict case here. I think it's shocking politics. What a heartrending discussion! I think it's a pathetic statement. Recall, too, that in the spring, the city of Reykjavík was sentenced in a district, where she was forbidden to deny a woman who is an invalid for special rent. She put it under trial in courts - because it sets the priorities for disability. As a result, a woman who is one of 460 microns who rented from the covered house became icebreakers in the prospect of getting the rent that was due to them. And there is credibility. We watch airport affairs and everything in that discussion. Hv. Porta's members speak extensively for open and direct democracy. I have not heard their suggestion in Reykjavík City that the airport, for example, will be paid nationally. I haven't heard that. That may be unfortunate. The latest now is the parking lot. Since then, the city of Reykjavík has given up the parking lot. I think, a respectable president, if a community doesn't trust to run a parking garage, the rest should be at the board and then run a big company in Reykjavík.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u224	V.E.G. President. As we have seen in the previous article, courageous members of the governments come to the General Assembly and give a speech should be thanked for this. Jón Gunnarsson is a brave man, for I knew this, and although I do not really agree with many of the things he says and wanted to have more than two minutes to respond to what was presented, I would discuss these matters. But thank you for the gift of speech at last. I believe that other members of the board of directors in the hall are now taking a speech chair and discussing these matters with us. It's just this kind of conversation we need. We need to make a decision, we need to communicate, we need to analyze the problem, and I'm going to do it with questions. Senator. The senator read from memos or comments or whatever it is that all members of the board are reading about the rise to the elderly and incubating during the term. To shorten it. I'm going to say that it follows that it was done in 2013 that Bjarni Benediktsson promised to do immediately after the election with a reduced income and the rest of the number I mention. The fact is, I'm asking. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson: Is he proud of it, and he thinks it is sufficient that in the ideal period of this government, which has now been two and a half years, the benefits of the elderly and the disability of the elderly have increased by 10 of you. K. By taxes? That is what elderly and desperate people have every month in the history of this government. January 1, the last year, the increase was 4 you. K. by tax. Counts 'em out. A senator that there is he doing much better as he was talking about than has been? A respectable president. Let me take one example of you. K.? I think they disappeared from the increase in food tax. [[The president calls.]] I believe they've completely disappeared there and that these 4 you've been raised. K. The last January of January 1 has actually disappeared that same day. Let us also bear in mind, a respected president, that in society there were increases, including some. from public institutions. [[The president calls.]] It disappeared like the dew before the sun.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u225	A respectable president. It is true that the sums of these amounts are not so high, and they include frequent and frequent increases in these groups as other members of society, especially on the part of Reykjavík, which, in many respects, have been in the lead of raising expenses for these groups, as I covered earlier. Do I think it's enough to do? No, I said before I thought it wasn't enough. But do I think we're on the road to do better, and have we shown that by the numbers we publish here? Have I demonstrated that we are doing much better than others have done before? ' Yes, we do much better than others have done in the past. And we have a review of the laws on this subject. What is the purpose of that review? Yes, it is getting better around this complex group of subjects and trying to set matters up so that those who are truly in need can be met better. We can't, however, a respectable president, expect compensation to exceed the minimum wage in the country. The minimum wage is coming up. This will mean that the improvements in this subject will follow. In addition, candidates who accept these improvements are assured that if high prices rise above the pay raise, they will also be improved. They have the guarantee beyond the employee who is very important, and the basis for this discussion has been somewhat forgotten.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u226	V.E.G. President. I have to be honest and say I liked it when it happened. One senator said that those who are really in need need need must be improved. That's what it's all about. There's the disagreement. We're talking for those who are really in need. We're talking for those who've got 10 of you. K. an increase during the entire season and received 4 points. K. January 1st, last year's tax increase. I'm not going to cover this up again with credit taxes and other increases that fell over January 1st. In our difficult years, there was a agreement on a rise in the lowest salary. Then, in the summer of 2011, the government immediately increased improvements by 8% and paid one bill of 51 points. K. in 2011. A respectable president. It must be kept in mind. The most controversial issue now is this retrospective increase we're talking about the need to come in now. All workers in the labour market have experienced a retrospective rise. We got it, ministers got it, judges and everybody in the public system that goes under the advice of men. That's what this is all about. 172 you have. K. This is today. A 10% increase is 17 you. K. for tax. It's only, well, don't you think it's up to 11 grand after taxes? This is what it's all about. I noticed why. A senator took the roof of the majority books on the amount to billions of dollars. Truly, it is very high, but we must bear in mind that other numbers are also very high, that is, 47 you. Old people and poor people in Iceland today. [[Upcoming: 193 thousand for tax.]] I'm talking about after taxes. People don't live on what's for taxes. [[Up front.]] I just wanted to say this right now. I don't believe any more than that heart. þm. Jón Gunnar's son, who speaks in such a way, is drawing close to us about our suggestion that the elderly and the desperate will be restored to an even more reasonable increase in this year. [[The president calls.]] Happily, valuable things and things in society are so good that they have a table for food. [[The president calls.]] That seems to be 35 billion dollars this year.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u227	A respectable president. When cited in 2011 and stated that at that time, the government gave higher than - law increases and in connection with pay raises in the community, referred to as monopolitans and raises, it should be remembered and noted that it was after the decline and the improvement in freezing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u228	About them...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u229	This was to correct an action that could hardly be considered priorities for this group at the time. At the same time, groups of government that were then ruling for billions of dollars in their pet projects, including a general review of the national constitution at the time and applied for involvement in the European Union with all the costs it brought. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u230	You're opening up a new embassy right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u231	At the same time that humans used their pet projects, they cut down the social groups involved. The compromise is not credible in this regard. We need to do better than that, but there will be a person with household chores who will have about 246 you. K. a month in pay from the end of the year.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u232	For taxes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u233	We always talk about pay for taxes. [[The president calls.]] At the same time, the minimum wage in the country will be 245 thousand according to the cost.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u234	Mr. President. There are many good speeches. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson moved. This talk with him. A senator was pathetic. It sucked. It sucked to listen to what happened. A senator speaks as if it were a similar situation today in the blues of the goods as in 2009, when the government had to clear the flea after an independent party and a forwarding party that caused the worst economic shipwreck of the Republic of History and though further looking again, as was one of the main core points of the II Council report in its time. That's what I'm talking about. A senator is really proud to speak here on one side of the blues and what's going well but watch the other side of the grueling fact that the only thing this government has done for the elderly and the desperate is to give them after taxes a lousy ten thousand? Trust 'em. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson will make sure you live at 172. K. a month after taxes? No, he could not, and few members of Congress could. That, however, is the lot of many elderly ones. It was pathetic to see it. A senator speaks of this so ignorance that he had to run like a little puppy to a big mother in order to get information about a matter that he evidently did not study. It's terrible to see a man like a dog. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson is about to have to defend the highest. A social minister who is supposed to be a protector and shelter for the elderly and the poor, but who has had no way of exasperating the matter as much as anyone at the highest level. A minister has come to realize that although I respect her so much that after seven days of discussions, she finally starts to come here and listen to a discussion. I'm asking why. Senator: Is he proud that in the greatest good of Iceland's history, when the government took up good from the former government, the only thing the government has ever done to right the elderly and desperate to give them a lousy ten thousand? [[The president calls.]] And can he answer me if there is a group other than the elderly and the desperate who will not be paid in time? ' [[The president calls.]] Is there a group?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u235	A respectable president. There's a little bit of excitement in your head. paritaprevir My friend Össur's Skarphéðinsson. I've rarely seen him as he is today. I don't know what the hell's going on. He may be getting tired, but that's not unusual. There have been some night meetings, and although he boasts that he wants to be in the Assembly Hall at sunrise after he's been here all night, I'm not sure he'll be okay. Of course, no wonder! A senator feels that my speech was pathetic, just pathetic, and how did he say it? Well, we'll do it as a quote, a respectable president. This, of course, is because I traced these classes, these members, their actions, went back only to the park to them where they control everything and went over their priorities in behalf of these groups, or the rest, at home. They can come and spread during the council with some promise. I think it's populism. I feel this is meaningless, especially if you look at the way they're doing things in their home and how they were doing things during their last term. Well, luckily, yes, but it could be better. It is not for the work of the government that it works well. It's so far away. But for the work of the government, it may not be as successful as it could be because of having opposed certain welfare projects. We're not in the best of Iceland yet, but we're getting closer to it, and I think it might be even better, i.e. If these government groups are allowed to build up the welfare community they want to represent. This will be a society that can do well with all its subjects, better than we do today. Of course, that is our goal. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u236	Mr. President. I can assure you what. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson says that I'm ready to stay here many days and many more nights to stand in the place for the elderly and the desperate. They can't go anywhere but here. They've gone to the highest. A social minister who is supposed to be their Protector but who is responsible for making offers. Then it's just the General. It's the advice of the elderly and the desperate, and I'm proud to be able to stand here and new my freedom of speech to take on their share. But I'm not proud of any senators like that. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son in his earlier talk. It's exactly what he said. I think she's the worst speech that ever heard him speak. A member of the board is bringing his eyes full of crocodile rivers and saying, "What do you mean? " A senator earlier said, "I want to do better. How many members of the government have I listened to today? What are they doing better? They have done nothing but tear themselves down to your point of what the previous government did. Under what circumstances? It was at this point that 217 billion came through the gaps in the Kingdom Fund, left behind by the 14 - year - old Foreign Government and the Independence Party. Of course, a rescue mission was needed. But what did we do? We defended the worst of them. The whole community had a cut-down, but those who were only on the striped pads were not cut. That's the fact. How do older ones benefit from being poor? A senator spoke of as the greatest goody of republican history in response to earlier? Yes, it's a dirty ten thousand dollars that the government of its great grace will give them their taxes. Is there something to boast about and then talk to the other side of the saying that there is great goodness ahead and that there was much more good under this government? I have no doubt that this government is in a good mood, and it's done a lot of good things. But one thing she has forgotten is elderly and desperate. [[The president calls.]] Hv. A senator did not have the courage to answer the question: Are there any others besides the elderly and desperate ones who will not be paid for an increase afterward? The answer is no. They're left to the wind. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, Independence Party, and the forwarding party. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u237	A respectable president. As the call goes up more often, the situation will not improve. I won't bid on it if it's going to be a long way into the night like we're headed for it, but that's another matter. I think it's a lawsuit to shovel over my own sins, to shovel over what history is, and now we're telling us what the real priorities of these classes are. If so, I will witness to Reykjavík, a city with everything in it. I got it. I got it. A senator to cross the street and talk to his colleagues and party members, the mayor and others, and to see if they are not ready to help the worst. No, they're adding a spell to these people. We're on the right track. These groups were greatly cut down during the last term when they performed their petting work. At the same time, I and we were critical of men who were able to do expensive pet projects while cutting down on those groups. Although the lowest improvement was observed, it was cut one compared to the total package. I don't have my eyes full of crocodile tears, a respectable president. There was a word. Skarphéðinsson He said that this is the greatest good in all of Iceland. I didn't say that. I said we were here in much more good, but I said that the greatest kind of love would come and that, of course, was based on the basis of my speech. It's important. I hope, though, that in this discussion we will learn that this discussion, when it comes to how we will trust the support of our community in order to build a better welfare society, will become more objective in this ideal period. Whether the elderly or the poor are the only ones who receive such compensation is legalized. Law change has not been submitted on the basis of the smaller part of the council on how this should be done. A key factor is that older ones and poor ones are protected by the law that if they do not raise money, if the price is higher, they will be able to count it on top of their compensation. [[The president calls.]] This is the route that had gone and had been selected and was run during the last term, both now and now. A senator did not attempt to change them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u238	Mr. President. In view of what was said last, 2011 gives us examples of how to do this. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] And the wages of the old cities and the poor were increased in the same way as they agreed in the labour market to have said it. What has been performed can be re-administered. I wanted to go over a few things that may not be the big lines. We've talked a lot about the big lines. As a result, many things will be left out that would be worthwhile. Among other things, I would like to talk about having an unquestioned inquiry to the highest level. Secretary of education and culture, turning to National Convention on Reading and Studying Deaf Children. This is shown on page 22. 289 on the budget of the 02-430 team, the Deaf and Deaf Communication Centre, the proposed period of 10 billion. K. increase in donations for projects that involve teaching basic schools to Icelandic Sign Language, to mother - to - school lessons in bilingual and telecommunications students. My request is unwarranted from September. The minister cannot answer the question of how a study is conducted for Deaf children and how it ensures that they will receive the proper preschool and how much money has been spent in making such study material for the past two years. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] This too is a group of less fortunate ones.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u239	The president asks why. Senators back in the hall to keep their voices down. Hv. 9th. That's the north side. has been.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u240	Thank you, Mr. President. It is also a group who are struggling to find help in the community and who call for what is right in their own eyes. How sad! A minister should not have answered that question. Of course, there should be some in the minister's academic policy on how this study will be ensured. I also asked him what arrangements were made to follow Article 3. the setting of Icelandic and Icelandic Sign Language. The answer has not yet been answered. Of course, that should be clear. The 10 million funded are not to care for these things but to something else, i.e. translated into Icelandic sign language, mother - to - teach in bilingual and telecommunications from high school students. It's clear that this is not enough. That's all they say about this team. Because we've been here talking about seniors and disability, this is also a deserting group. I used my song in a cross. I'm gonna take on something special. The speech season is short, and you don't come in much. One of the less important factors is to strengthen culture beyond what is being done on the budget, i.e. The national cultural agreements. Unfortunately, this government has been misinjured by the Protocols of a part of the country that we started with the last term of an internationally accepted system where local people set their priorities and divide the public funds that date for regional and social development and the national components have been overseen. It is quite certain that if the purpose and aim of the parish plan are to be achieved, they need to be increased. The current government decided to put the cultural agreements right there. We are deeply concerned that our donations will be impaired. They're putting the contracts in there now through 2nd. On the part of the section and the work programme is unclear. We've suggested that national parish programmes get a generous amount of money to list decorations and art, and a lot of the sectors that receive contributions from the Ministry of Education and Culture, and to be part of a built-up plan. As we know, this is one of the great things that are being accomplished in national preparation. I'm going to turn my song into a cross many times. The chairman and vice president of the legal committee have been groping about spending a lot of money on health care. I'm not going to reduce the amount of money that goes to health care. More is needed, as we know. They've said that the health care is focused. Now there is a problem with the problem of shutting down their health care at Puppy Stadium for two days a week. No one wants me to answer these questions specifically until some time after the law has been approved. It's what it is. When people need to go to health care for long distances, such as in this area, the tendency has been as if we knew to withdraw the service into larger territories but have not looked well at transportation. As we know, they are not good in many places. We have to ask who. Chairman of the budget board whether or not there will be continued health care at Puppy Field. More than one part's proposals show that the National Research Centres of Iceland and the Natural Institutes for the Protection of Lakes and Laxár, in South Germany, RAMY so-called, and Iceland's Natural Institute for Protection. Some of us have approached and said that there is really no basis for this proposal. Today, we received a review from a My Lake Company or Strulley Strull where we are courted after a discussion with a board of budgets that this is not good. A rural government feels that this will not help to further further the work of the research center in the CEE unit and gives specific comments to the bill, which identify together as meeting facilities, equipment, and staff as being designed to take the research center from the Swamp. There's no other way to understand that. Then we're leaving the area, Lake Mey, where we're being investigated, and the link that is closer to the Mýcians. Instead, it seems that this government, who speaks a lot about moving jobs into the country, intends to take away this activity but not to strengthen it. I think it's reprehensible. I forgot about the health issues earlier. We've been talking for health care in remote perimeters that have been hit. All over the country, not only in my district, but in all the country, we get into a panel of concerned rural governments that can't have business in nursing homes. We know that especially where there are only ten beds or something like that, local societies are faced with the fact that if anyone falls off and cannot be used immediately, the Agency's lost. It is shocking that there is no fixed price for this small nursing home that is struggling to keep working, for the cost is the same. In fact, a happy new and beautiful home has been described as a fallout of this problem. Space would have to change into a nursing room, even one space, to secure the business. It does not cost a wealth of money at the end of the day. Sadly, the course of aging does not appear to be visible. Mr. President. There's a lot of stuff going on in this bill. [[The president calls.]] I just wanted to come up with a few things that I haven't found any attention in the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u241	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I wanted the senator to follow the proposals of the administrative committee that I seem to present on one side of the treatment of the Generalist Agent and the treatment of the State Radio, perhaps especially. In the past year, the U.S. legislature agent discussed a case that was not convenient for all in the administrative sector. That, of course, is the role of the emissary of the Generals. It is his own independent surveillance, and it is, in fact, one of the main committees of the Council here to protect. However, this is as good as being done so that the office is in the process of cutting down. As if in some way they were being punished for going to an independent job that led to the political conclusion we know. I'm asking if the Senator doesn't think we can count on a joint resolution made by a management and surveillance committee to correct this to become a reality with the changes to the bill and feel it's important. The question, however, is inevitable. A senator's assessment of the effect of this treatment on the National Radio. Today, it has been viewed as a neutral multicenter and a newsroom for the country. But what does it mean for State Radio to have a decrease in the radio rate of up to 400 million? Does that mean anything? Does this mean significant cuts on the program? What is the result? A senator that if this treatment remains so unchanged, that the Minister of Education doesn't bring his bill to land or coast and have no support for his own government?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u242	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar for the counter-reactivity. I agree with him about the U.S. Marshal. It's very important that we strengthen that institution. Therefore, part of the reduction has been observed in the paediatric population. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, proposal to add 15 million to the Allied agent, since there is a total of 13 million. K. cutdown on that position. I don't know if it's because he came to a certain conclusion in the so - called leak language or something else, but it's very important that an agent take the initiative. It's the independence that I have at least a feeling that the public would trust not to be dependent on any political minor or anything like that but that people would be inclined to decide and accept it. But to continue, he needs money. The directors of the legal committee have said that this is because he does not pay rent that is cut down. On the other hand, it is rather simple to think that he is well - possessed and that he does not have to be driven in some other way. With regard to RUSB, it is not to say that it would be their svana song, but it is arranged that it requires complete debunction. We wouldn't expect my RUSA to know the way we do today if this is going to work out. At least I'm very worried about it. Not that they have shown tremendous adaptability in the cuts they have had to cope with. True, much good people have had to disappear, but I admire how they have so far gone. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u243	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer. I wanted the senator to do that, because she's working on a budget committee, and so I've been doing quite a lot of financial work, whether there were other surveillance agencies to worry about paying the bill after 2nd. Of course, the leading members of the Commission have talked about institutions as if they were unnecessary but overlooked the findings of the Allied Research Committee on the importance of promoting the institutions we have. I also wanted to ask the senator about this magnitude in surgery by the State Radio, 379 million. Is it not true that one of the government's standards is about 10 million, so this could be up to 40 levels if it was just taken out by the people, or is this the operation on Channel 1 or Sports? Has the radio pointed to any of these large teams that they could cut down if they did? Finally, this may be: I'm not the right kind of luxury. For example, during the fall of days, a financial minister has particularly established a financial committee at an open meeting and declared that the Minister of Education would transfer a bill to a private radio fee and the government would post it into the council? Is this what it is, then, that a minister of finance is about to put his words behind RUS?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u244	Mr. President. As to the surveillance agencies, I have been concerned with the recommendations made by the Board of Directors of the budget... by special prosecutors, district attorneys, and those stakeholders, an equal agency. There are many experiences that you may experience as a thorn in the eyes of people. I'm sure I'm planning something on them. But that is how the surveillance industry has been described, such as why. A senator mentioned. Of course, these are all those keeping an eye on something. They've been talking about swelling out. In fact, all of this was justified in my knowledge, and it was identified in a report by the World Council of Research. Regarding VOLUME, I would be most concerned that the country would be even worse, and it would be impossible to continue building up jobs in the country again, as I know that a radio manager was interested. I'm worried about the baby stuff. He was very interested in building and producing Icelandic and good children's material, which, of course, cost money. It's expensive, but it's ambitious, so it's on VOLV. ROV has been in the lead for decades when it comes to Icelandic material. I'm worried about it as well as because every Icelandic musician, more or less, who has wanted to be with the State Radio has been given access to it because it's the Kingdom News for all of us. Of course, healthy competition should be there, and I support other radio and television stations to survive, and we can totally take up a debate about the advertising market and all that. But it all costs money, and democracy costs money. RUSH is part of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u245	A respectable president. You have been living under this discussion that we left classes have been more and less involved in cutting down the benefits or pensions of older citizens and desperate people, that we have been exposed to some horror of that class, and that, compared with all of that, there is now being a global record record increase in these groups by 9.1% increase. I have the trend in front of me in a table that is included in a committee list of smaller parts, from the base. Harðardóttir This table is from the State Insurance Institute - which states that in 2008, 2009, basic pensions have increased by 30% between the years. There were measures that led to this, such as removal of sexual ties and other factors. But this sums up what we equals do in times of well - being and where our priorities lie; from 119 thoust. K. for those who live with others up to 157 you have. K. in one year. Then those who live alone from 144 you went. K. up to 184. K. It was the work of an equal member of the Ministry of Social Affairs back then. When people talk about world record with what's going on here... A social minister should ask for the word and come up here and discuss with us what we have asked of her instead of groping into my speech if she feels uncomfortable with these figures and facts. [[Up front.]] A 30% increase from year to year. That's what we did. Therefore, there should be careful discussions of world record, or other records, in some historical setting of increases at this time of the year instead of speaking in a public assembly and telling older citizens and microplies that they will have the same peaks as others in this country. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u246	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I've said that the groups we've been discussing here do not eat a soup, not even a nail soup, if that's the case. When they're talking about who did what it was when and how I've been offended when both ministers of this government and her officers allow themselves to come up here and say, "You did this and that. You see, it was such a great choice for the last government to come to a bank of state funds, was it? I am completely offended by such language. Sadly, after decades of government situation, those classes now living under the state's budget left behind, as we know. It's really a miracle to have escaped from this as we did. Those who live on that low income took on similar loads that have gradually been tried to correct. We always said, "These are the first groups. I will not belittle the changes brought here by the government. They just don't work. They are not reasonable. The speech drama in which it is used does not give the conclusion that the Quantum Community will have when they add it together. If we take from 3% of the people here at the beginning of the year - because it happened before it was written, and there's something special to allow to calculate it into the collective agreements made in May. That's very strange. Of course, our primary concern is that people need to eat and dress. We're just confronted with that. The increases in this subject - and I also resent the statement made in the financial rationale when it comes to saying that pensioners get more in their pockets than average employees do. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. What average wage? I'm asking.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u247	A respectable president. The fact is, after more than a decade in the Ministry of Social Affairs, an equal worker named Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir came in, and it was decided, out of political vision, to make the most of the ideal pensioners in this country. And it was. They can be seen in their numbers and an overview of the basic life money paid from a insurance agency. That's the fact. There is a tremendous increase between 2008 and 2009. Then, in 2011, there is another increase of 10%. This is because there will be certain wages in the country, so the examples are certainly there. I would like to encourage this government to make these changes a role model and recognize that no one in this country lives on 192 of you. K. net. No one does that for the benefit of housing, living, and on and even giving gifts to his grandchildren, regardless of the younger ones who provide materially for a family. The government has to face but not stand here and offer us a lawsuit, such as that people cannot get comparable increases back and forth like the rest of the Icelandic labour market because they have some promotions right now during the New Year's season, which is just wrong. Then there will be raises in May, which makes it possible that Icelandic pensioners will be left behind when compared with the lowest wage. It's just facts. Let us stop this deception and begin to recognize the reality of the people of the United States who live and who live as older ones, who cooperate to improve their terms.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u248	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. As I said before, all we have to do is talk about the facts. We need to talk about the facts that people need to eat, and they need to make a living. It doesn't do it in any number. It's just that way. At a hearing of the budget hearing, representatives came, like the Supreme Court. A minister sitting here in the hall has expected to know that her people from the Ministry were there at a meeting after the meeting with the Department of Environment and the older citizen's Society, where there was evidence for their calculations and how they appreciated the situation. That's why I say we can play with numbers up and down and down to some particular conclusion or decide that we're going to find some particular conclusion. We cannot allow ourselves to talk about billions or percentages. I don't think so. There is also the need to consider whether the number of ones in the group has increased from year to year. Is that so? How much? What does it matter in this comparison? And so on. When people talk about billions or something like that, there is also a need to think that the number of people who are older and poorer, especially natural older citizens, is increasing. It's part of the total number, not what each person gets in his pocket to make a living. I received a retrospective remuneration back to May 1, and I don't understand the dissatisfaction to say that this small percentage of the lowest wage that is being said to be paid either in advance or after this year should balance the increase that comes in May of the following year and the increase in May. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I can't reach that context any more than older civilians and poorer people. But perhaps we are not smart enough to calculate, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u249	President. I'm glad to see that. Social and housing minister is present for this discussion, at least ... forthehours. I would like her to speak up and explain to them that people who are not able to share the same compensation as other people in the country why they are and how they and the government can justify them and say that they have never been paid more. A respectable president. Most of the money never has been paid more than now because everything goes up, the budget goes up. This kind of talk that sometimes comes along and says that there has never been more paid to this and no more - fortunately, a respectable president. When the money goes up, when everything goes up, the money goes up to the elderly, and the money goes up, but it doesn't raise enough. That's what we're saying. Their payments do not increase in the same way that they do for other people in the country. V.E.G. Last night, the prime minister told us that we could talk about this forever - he almost said it, he didn't put it that way, a respectable president, but it was the meaning - but there would be nothing added to the funds that should go to the elderly and desperate. I'd be fine if the Minister responsible for this series came along and confirmed that this is the case and confirmed that there is no hope for members of the board like that. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson, who came up here today, said that he was willing to try to correct this. I'd like to prove to you nothing other than that the government, the government, the government, and the rest of the council take care of themselves and correct this problem and raise their pensions to seniors and what poor people are supposed to live on from May 1st of 2015. I'm going to allow myself to be such a optimistic, respectable president to believe that something is happening in that case because, in general, I believe in the good in people. But if they don't, I'd like to go to the top. The social and housing minister, Harðardóttir Hardardddóttir, would come up here and say it to his clients who may be called, people sometimes call them their clients, because she brings this party. She explains it to these people, micro-punchers who are going to be here and who have been here this week and are going to be here all week, at least While the council is, there is nothing. I think it's honorable of the highest. Minister to show up here, but it would be even better if she spoke up. Here today, several members of the council have spoken up. I've mentioned what. Senators Ásmundur Friðriksson and Willum Þór Thor Þór Þórsson, both of whom have spoken here, paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson gave a talk that in many ways I found interesting and enjoyable in the way that he confirmed his dissatisfaction with the choice of nursing men and those who live under disability. He said he wanted to see it corrected. I heard it this way, a respectable president, that he wanted it corrected from May or June, that he somehow put it that way. It gave me hope that people would be a little moved to that, because they couldn't quite agree to the government opposition, that they could accept this baloney over time, perhaps from June 1st. I still hope so. Here, too, under the council, a fine councilman from the South Cathedral spoke for himself. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson was ashamed that we in the lesser part were talking a lot about this discussion, but we did not talk about the law of the law. This is my second speech, and I talked for 40 minutes yesterday about the budget and that's all I think what I've been talking about is about the budget. It is under the laws that determine the benefit of seniors and the life-creatures. But he said we hadn't talked about the budget. How do you know why? paritaprevir Does Páll Jóhann Pálsson have anything to do with that? He's never here. He certainly came, I noticed it, and listened to it. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson and I hope he's heard a lot of it. So a senator said it was fine. But there was one thing that struck me in public. paritaprevir Ásmundur the son of Friðriksson, he spoke of the diplomats. I am so bored when we talk about our common funds in this country, the funds we pay our taxes, the funds to go and the much better, but not to a sufficient degree, to pay the wood in this country, all the basic services, our education, the health system, and other things, and men call it a state suit. I find it boring to say it, I must say it. But in many respects, I was very happy with a talk. paritaprevir Friðriksson, and especially what I don't think is going to happen too often, that he wants to join us and change the way the government intends to conduct the salary of senior citizens and desperate people. People have spoken about it, and it is certainly true that, fortunately, there has been a reversal of government affairs. A man should not take the name of his Lord in vain, a respectable president, but thank God we succeeded in turning it around. We were, I think, with 217 billion in pitch not so many years ago. What have they become, six, seven years? It's all turned around, and luckily, it's always going better and better. Now in the country, I think it's right to put it that way, a respectable president, blue eyes. Yet, a respectable president, in these financial laws, will not succeed in having more money than the current financial year, perhaps a little more left over. It's headed for a lot of expansion. Why is that, Mr. Honorable President? This is because taxes are being minimized excessively. It's happening again what happened in the years before collapse: the money policy and government policy are not in harmony. It's a very dangerous thing for the economy, a respectable president. This can lead to expansion, which can lead to our going to another yarmulke. What do those who are in power say about this? They say, " It's all because it's all because there's been so much pay raise in the country. ' A respectable president. I hold on to it and have claimed it, and still claim that one of the biggest problems in the country is that there has been too little wages in the country. Today, public and public markets have seen significant pay increases. What we need to do now is not shout and scream and say that there have been excessive pay increases, so inflation takes place. No, at least now we need to keep our pockets that the amount of money we can buy will result in the pay raise, at least for the time being. to short-term, to last, it will continue to bring us up to a different level of pay, as it were. That's why I'm very unhappy that the government has chosen the way of paying taxes to help the pros to set up a bargain last spring. They are mostly among the most successful people, middle carers, and even those above them are now in the highest tax level, they are also to be paid taxes. What the government was to do was cut down the insurance. She could easily have dropped the insurance fee; she will spend in two years 11 billion to lighten the cost of the money she has been paid. She should have turned down the insurance. In this way she would have helped the executives to earn a higher salary. I can't believe that those who run the companies in this country don't want to live up to higher salary, they don't want to run a fancy business where the people working there get a good salary. More importantly, a respectable president, if the insurance bill is dropped, it will help mostly small and medium-sized companies. It's the most precious business in the world. No, a respectable president, it is not right to say that there are the most precious companies in the country because every business in the country is precious. The seabed is precious, even in abundance, as it is precious. Every business in the country is precious. But to small and medium-sized companies, the highest expectations are now to increase their jobs in the country, to make the economy more varied, thus strengthening the economy as they have been told. This I think is the great challenge. If people buy them well, they pay more taxes, and then we can build a good community system where we have good health care, good health care, good schools, good government radios, cities of older people, and microchills that they can survive. That's what we should try to do, a respectable president. I spoke a little about the other day and yesterday in my speech, and I want to come back to the cancellation proposed by the Board of Education for the Generals. Granted, it is not large amounts of money, a respectable president, and perhaps strange to specifically mention it, but it is very symbolic that a financial committee should suggest that it be cut down 13 million. K. In turn, a board of administrations and monitoring has, from me, suggested that the funds for office be raised by 15 million. K. What for? Yes, this is especially suggested by the committee that the agent can take the initiative. Now I have to admit, a respectable president, that two years ago or so there was a discussion at the Senate Hall, and I didn't give much money to make an earmark of special funds, so to speak, of these initiatives. It was simply because I was, and I still believe that an agent was very good at setting priorities, setting priorities for the tasks he has taken. Still, I've changed my mind, a respectable president, on this. I don't think that it's right to name some particular money to the office that should take the initiative check, but I believe that at Congress we should stress that we want to add money in there because we feel that initiative checks are a very important thing. We saw their importance during the past year when an agent began to check the intervention of the Minister of Internal Affairs on the subject of a natural police investigation. But what is an agent doing right now? Now he's starting an initiative check at the Foreign Institute, the management department of the Foreign Institute. Why does he do that? Yes, he does, because the director of the National Institute of Iceland has said that last night in Castisview, I think it was, that she did not know if she had a medical check on the health of the little Albanian children who were moved out of the country with their parents overforcrowding at dawn. Then comes an agent who says: "This is exactly one of the reasons why the U.S. Can they receive this service in Albania? The director of the National Institute of Iceland said no, she didn't know if it had been checked. Then saith the emissary, This will I look; and I have written a letter from the Foreign Institute of the Gentiles, and I pray for it. This is yet another example of how this institution is one of the most essentials in the country. [[The president calls.]] You can't save a cent to her.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u250	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. She spoke only of the tax political bitch at the beginning of her speech. We've been going over it a little, especially in terms of progress towards welfare and other things. The day has come when this government is cutting more off GDP or up to 2% while the government during the last term dropped by 1.5% of GDP, which we thought was too much and especially when it came to health. I thought about the income tax, or just taxes, usually. Because we're talking about the context of the parts, the government has increased food taxes, and the social and housing minister is often talking about a variety of other measures that it intends to perform. Some may have appeared to some extent, others not. We'll cancel the sugar tax, and other things that have led to the end of these groups having more shit than they had before, including the rest of them. because of this tax politics, also because the tax dropped on the middle, but not on the bottom. I wanted to wonder about certain things about senior citizens, and, however, desperate, especially, but both groups take advantage of e.g. aid and medicine. There has been a request that the tax worth be removed from drugs specifically, but even from relief tools or transferred to lower tax levels. I'd like to take in this cheek because, like a dog, it's a question. A senator and we've spoken of them as taking in far more income than can be done on more fronts, much more than the government suggests. to meet these needs. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u251	President. I'm going to say it quite frankly right now, I'm not sure that it's the right way to turn the value tax on drugs and aid tools. There are so many things that would be good if we could lower the value tax, that would only be good if we could lower the value tax. I believe that in this regard it would be better to increase the wages these people receive, the pension, the disability pension, so people should pay for these expenditures rather than bring the taxes in particular because there are so many others who use drugs, not just older citizens and desperates. So I'm thinking that it would be better to improve the terms on that side so that these groups would be more comfortable paying for necessities. On the other hand, the food tax was introduced. It was natural for this government to increase the weight of the natural tax in the shopping basket of those with the lowest income. That is why I found it very remarkable what I had proved to be true not to say entirely unregistered, as I did today, that there were 1.4 billion in what was called countertwinment because of the increase in the food tax, and 800 million of it was taken back to the budget now. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u252	Madam President. I agree with that, and you might say that many people take advantage of drugs and other drugs, but that's probably because people in general need them, that's not necessarily a choice. That's why I think it would be okay with people who would need it rather than lower, for example. tax of flat screens and stuff like that, just to put things in perspective. Of course, I agree that the terms are what needs to be improved. Of course, for many years, we have fought for the issue, that the country's lowest wages are increasing, and that is also true of the benefits of microenergy pensioners and pensioners. I don't understand the logic of the present government. We are faced with 50% of microenergy pensioners who do not have other income, e.g. Not from a pension fund. People hold back from seeing a doctor. [[The president calls.]] There were other meetings with a financial committee, and you don't really leave the meeting that it hasn't returned to the government, its calculations do not work with the calculations of these groups or their assassins. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u253	A respectable president. No, you're right. It seems like those in charge of this country don't realize that it costs living. Hv. Sadly, a senator referred to the health care that elderly and desperate ones need to make more use of than the rest of us. There's one thing I think the need to look at quite specifically, that's how much people are paying off their own pockets for health care and all kinds of services. The tents were raised on aid, and there was an increase in all kinds of items on the last budget. I think it would be inexplicable to get a good overview of how much we're paying our own pockets for health care.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u254	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for an interesting speech. I cut it by what I did. A senator said that one of the biggest economic problems was too low, if I understood correctly. I'd like to discuss it a little bit more because I have a different view of it. While I want people to be well paid in general, my view of Iceland's problems has been mostly $1.9, especially what pay raise can do. They can lead to inflation, which is the result of our living in a tiny economy that has very little currency, which is used in very limited areas of very few. That's what I've seen as the main problem. I'm especially interested in what you're talking about. A senator said in connection with the insurance fee. I have long wondered why the insurance bill is not just the same thing in someone's bones calculated to unemployment figures at any given time. I don't quite understand why it's a personal decision. We all know that the premium for the insurance bill is unemployment, so that's how I understand it and why. A senator may correct me if I'm wrong. There are some of these things that I don't understand why we're making political decisions when conditions should really exist in mathematics, in the numbers we have. I'd be interested to hear more about it. A senator meant, and whether I have understood him correctly in connection with the pay, especially how these two things hang together, if a low salary is the main problem and the insurance bill, as I understood it, is a way to make room for more money. If the insurance bill were simply determined by some economy such as unemployment, it would be. A senator that affects her attitude on low wages and its role in Iceland's economic problems?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u255	A respectable president. The insurance bill is made up of a number of things, and one of them is what goes into the non-employment budget. When the crash occurred, the insurance fees were raised substantially, and if I recall correctly, it was in good cooperation with the labour market partners who could be said to pay for it because the insurance bill is paid tax. Since then it has happened, I don't have this in front of me, but I think I'll remember it right that the insurance bill is still 2 percentage points higher now than it was before it started to rise, though it has dropped something a little. The bottom line is that the share of employment insurance has dropped, but the state has taken it into its own budget. So the insurance bill is made up of a number of factors other than the one that runs into a unemployment insurance store. After unemployment has dropped and less money is needed, the state has taken a larger proportion of it into it. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson would call it a state whore. So it's been taken into the big fund, but I don't want to call it a state whore. It has also happened that today less of the insurance fees are now being paid in the stock market than was supposed to be done. [[The president calls.]] Still, nothing is being done to remedy the birthmark.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u256	A respectable president. I have often wondered why this arrangement is legal, having an insurance fee that then does not go to employment insurance, since the idea of insurance is exactly to offset the need for unemployment, especially because I have had a certain taste for the insurance bill in which it seems to me that it means that I've had a degree of resistance. I think it's very nice about taxation, whether it's the job or the employee side or what, that it's very clear where the money goes because it makes politics clearer. During the 2013 election campaign, I remember that people started talking about the insurance money because it was clear what was meant. If people started talking about income taxes, they suddenly had to bludgeon the entire discussion with everything the state does, which was clear to the prerequisite value of the insurance fee. Therefore, I cannot understand why it is a political question whether to raise the price or to reduce the price, unless it seems legal to use this price for something that is not expected. I wonder what. A senator agrees with me that this price should be used to obtain employment insurance and that nothing else should be done. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u257	V.E.G. President. Part of the price goes to a non-employment fund. This part was increased during the most unemployment period, since that part has been reduced, and it goes to other needs. That's legal because it's settled here and everything that's decided here is legal, because we're putting the law in the country. There's nothing illegal about it. It may well be that it is unwise and possible to do things differently, but it is legal. We can call it insurance. I think the paymen tend to object much to paying taxes and say that pay taxes here, which are now the insurance bill, are much higher than they do in any other place. That's not true. It's just as stupid as it is when you say there are more holidays in Iceland than there are in other countries. It's also a lie.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u258	V.E.G. President. I take a silent note of just what to say. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann the son of Pálsson so that the senator who ended his case did not speak of the budget. If there is a senator who has spoken as thoroughly about the budget in this discussion as it can be, it is. paritaprevir Valgerður Bjarnadóttir. It has specifically stood in place in the matters of disability and the elderly, where the Community has a clear change, it had in its budget, 6.6 billion, and less than 5.5 billion in the next year's budget. It's a matter of the budget, and we have a why. A senator specifically stopped. It has also made a special point of dealing with the health system, where citizens of the Land Hospital claim that there is a lack of at least 3 billion to allow the Agency to meet properly. This has been specifically discussed by the senator. But I'd like to direct a question to the question. A senator who turns to the U.S. Councilman. Hv. The senator was chairman of the Generals Board of Directors and Follow-up committee and is very well aware of the activities of the Allied agent. She said here that in some respects she had changed her view of the emphasis in the office. I would like to ask the senator to explain in a little more detail what it means with those statements. I know she did so in her case, but I think it would be interesting to get it clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u259	A respectable president. Simply put, the discussion was about strengthening an agent in particular so that he could take the initiative. I thought that the office of an agent needed to be strengthened. But I said: " I don't think there's any reason to be especially supportive of him because I believe that an agent has the right priorities. I believe that the office of the Trustee of the Generals is exemplary not only in the way he always stayed within the budgets of his last difficult last term but also in the setting of priorities there. Since then, however, my eyes have been opening up to the tremendous urgency of this initiative - thinking situation, such as the initiative in which it took place during the past year, which was natural history. That's why I'm just saying, "Yes, you were wrong, bitch." This need to be stressed especially, and perhaps also because this man does not always become an agent of the Generals; therefore, the Council may need to emphasize that it wants this role to be clear from the office. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u260	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. In his decisions, an agent puts up an opinion. His views are not legal, but they have, in my opinion, greatly influenced the administration even if they do not have a legal influence. Counts 'em out. A senator would be an ideal arrangement for an agent by his actions to win the view that his words and decisions will be heard, or would some sort of recovery be needed to build on? I'd like to hear what you're thinking. A senator on this subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u261	President. We have courts. If humans want to be punished or done in such a way, we need courts. The Director of the Generals is naturally primarily concerned with the administrations and the execution of a proper administrative board. I'd like to make it a requirement for those in high places and in the administrations that they know they should listen to an agent. An agent is not a punishment. An agent is a guide unit. What an agent says, his opinion, is guidance rather than punishment. And so I believe those who work in the administration should consider the opinion of an agent. They should view this as a means of maintaining their work better, not as punishment for their wrongdoing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u262	Madam President. It is imperative that we do not leave this budget behind, we do not pay the budget, nor the budget of money, without handling the elderly and the desperate. It's very important. I've been saying before I've just wanted to recall this before I turned to another, in 2015, pensioners increased by 3%, but in 2015, those with the lowest salary and in the VR, or in the Flea Alliance increased by 10.9%, since May 1. Each month they have a 10.9% increase over the entire year, while the elderly and the micro-terrestrial have an increase of 3%. That's the difference right now, and the board of directors don't want to pay and improve the interest of the elderly and the desperate back in time. According to the suggestions we are here, the administrative body suggests that the elderly and the desperate rise by 9.7% on January 1, 2016. Remember, those with the lowest salary received 10.9% on May 1, 2015. Then, those with the lowest wage return on May 1, 2016, to 5.9%. No matter how we turn these percentages back and forth, the group of elderly and desperate will be worse than those with the lowest wage of both 2015 and 2016 if this works. Based on information received from the Ministry of Health, as a financial committee on December 9, 2015, there will be a total of 246,902 benefits of a single patient with domestic support. According to contracts made by the VR and the Flea Coalition, the lowest wage will be 270 you have. Dec., others made slightly different agreements. There is a difference, however, between less than 247 of you. K. and 270 o'clock. K. that will be the gap in 2016. We at our government stand put the emphasis and hope in our heart that if government officials cannot intend to accept the lesser part's proposal, they will come with a change, for it is a shame to leave this group alone. Social Security Act was not set to make sure that this group was the poorest group in the community. The laws were set to ensure the exact contrast, that these groups did not remain. Madam President. It is also very important to deal with the situation of the Hospital. It is very important to meet the growth in the area, to increase the number of patients. If this is not done, the Land Hospital is asking for a cutoff of 1 billion. It's also unacceptable. In addition, there is a debate over the price of doctors, about their watch organization, and the National Reunion is considering to a budget board whether there may be 400 million missing the calculations. These two problems are of utmost importance, and the budgeting bill cannot be divorced as it is prepared. The care of the elderly and the disability of the elderly must be addressed, and there must be a response to the expansion of the land hospital. There's something else in this financial bill. It is assumed that the radio charge will drop from 17,800 to 16,400 in 2016. When I'm at the highest. He told us to go to the top of the budget. The Minister of Education and Culture would bring a bill to the council, which included the fact that the radio rate would be the same in 2016 as it is now, in 2015. Now we've observed it in the news at the highest. The Secretary of Education and Culture can't get through the government with their bill. It is said that the members of Congress do not allow themselves to be allowed to go through. What does this mean, Madam President? This means that the State Radio has to cut down, first of all, about 400 million on the radio charge, but for that, it would have to cut down about 100 million dollars on an elected basis. Radio rate is expected to be the same in 2016 as it is 2015. As we know in 2015, there were a huge change in the number of people we know, and it's estimated that it's going to cost the radio over 100 billion. K. to cope with it. If this is to be done, the radio needs to cut down about 500 million. K. Hv. legislators have put much emphasis on the settlements, and I'm very pleased with that emphasis, but what will be kept by members of State Radio if there are to be a cut down of about 500 million? Where do people think the canal will bite? Will he bite in the capital, or will his service be cut down all over the land? Certainly, as we are talking about half a billion, the land is likely to be more expensive. Will they be taken down? I don't think that's likely, and I feel that it is. The members of the Management Board should examine their thoughts on this subject and here explain how they envision the future of the Kingdom News with less management funds. Finally, Madam President, I would like to point to another. So these are executives setting maximum policies. The state minister of education and culture before the door. They say to the minister: No, we don't agree with your policy, we want to cut down the TV. We want to change it, make it totally different from what it is now, reduce public role, etc. Other suggestions for changing the suggestions are the same where there is no severity. The members of a large part of the legal committee offer a policy proposal for the National Library. It suggests that it must be allowed to sell 22 Lath Road to host the National Archives. This is by no means in harmony with the National Library's policy as the Ministry and the Supreme Court. A minister agreed and published in 2014, last year, talking about the location of Laura 254 and that it should be rebuilt for the collection to be suitable. It has laid high costs of design. That's why. The members of a large part of the budget board that likes to be used for hotels or resorts for tourists, the National Archives of Iceland, the only collection mentioned in the Constitution that serves the public, the management department, and the educational community, go with a god each. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u263	V.E.G. President. It comes as no surprise to me that the government wants to sell its place from the National Archives. This is in harmony with a policy followed by these political powers. I thought men had learned their lesson. Not far away is the old Land Phone house that was sold, and the cell phone then rented it by new owners of expensive sentences. It was decided to rent a home under the offices of the Generals but not to have a home. A general body of money has invested it for a substantial amount of money and has since rented it for an enormous amount of money. This was a very foolish arrangement because renting is more expensive than having it. Why, otherwise, would renting the public house have become a lucrative business path? However, I came up, not primarily to say this, but to agree with the question. A senator who reviewed the grueling development of a general labour market compared with what was going on in the social security of microgrows and the elderly and then stated that it was wrong on the part of the Generalis to complete the council without any acceptable smell. I would like to ask the senator: " Where does the senator focus primarily on his eyes? Is it that the social security and economics and the elderly, the health system and the radio? I heard it, but in a few sentences, I'd like to hear each other's voice. A senator points his eye when she wants to review the budget before the council goes home.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u264	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Of course, the most important thing is not to complete Congress without adding the interest of older ones and desperate ones and meeting a number of patients in the Land Hospital, so that there is no need to be cut down. They may be virtually the same group because the growth in the Land Hospital is due to the age of the nation and the growing population in the Hospital is older. According to this, the administrative body wants to make sure that this group, the elderly, who have fulfilled their roles and disability that cannot earn a living, will become the poorest group in the community. They are also to be cut off at the national hospital. It's a monster that can't be tolerated at all. No senator can walk out with dignity after providing such financial provisions. This is about people's lives and limbs, but of course, it is very important that the State Radio is made possible to carry out its important role. For society, it's important that we make the mess so that we can do it. As the environment under the budget is offered, it will not work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u265	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for tore up all the material that I specifically mentioned, ideal invalids and the elderly in the first place, then the subject of the Kingdom News and its interests, and the third, the health care and the hospital. I want this discussion to be held in place, too, that there are few health - care budgets that are also depressing, such as winter. A member of the Parliament has carefully established newspaper articles and in a discussion at the council recently, pointing out that there is a danger that the cut-off there will be able to involve this operation into private business. If you turn off the ability to perform tasks, you know that there is an open tap elsewhere. We have seen in this bill when over a billion people are inserted into the private business to cover the costs of contracting professional doctors. On the other hand, such budgets are wanted by agreements at the Land Hospital. I wanted to mention it with my health care because of it. A senator has repeatedly done so. I'd like to hear a little more about that information from then on. A senator, and second, what is the result? A senator that if there is no match for the Land Hospital, rather than on the budget bill? It will lead to lay-offs, considering why. A senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u266	Madam President. I'm like a whisk. A senator is concerned about the health care of the country. There are a few hundred million of my memories being put in to meet home nursing, psychological services, and something else. In particular, there should be an increase in the number of clinics in the capital area by three, and changes are expected to take 70 million to pay rent for eight months. These new clinics are expected to work for eight months. No special funds are to be expected to fire them. Rather, they are to create a new system that is supposed to go along with patients. Then there's an idea, too, that I'd like to draw out here, that when the budget is given the suggestions for the rent money, 70 million. Noon, November 23 is included in the text, by permission of the president: ▪ A health - care minister has decided to offer up three new clinics in the capital area in order to increase the access of the population to the ministry. When these adjustments are published in a document at the council, this is taken out by an interview at the highest level. He said very clearly that the three clinics were being offered and supported by the top of the world's headquarters. A health minister of all of that. [[Can't stand the daylight.]] But it's as if men were afraid to take the discussion. We've called for that, including. in paragraph 1, the memory of this discussion will be transparent to the surface. To save the health care program by personal management rather than by means of money, there is an example that doesn't work out.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u267	Madam President. Hv. A member of the U.S. government radio department, the elderly, and the desperate and the Land Hospital were included. A discussion about older ones and disability has been very powerful in these days at the government stand to achieve the correction of their benefits of paying them back successfully, as other groups have received. One feels that governments do not feel very comfortable caring for the fact that there is nothing to be done about them. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson has published that he is sorry that he has failed to support the government's proposal for this correction. Willum Þór Thor Þórsson told me yesterday, reminding me, something that would be good if the group that needed the most part of these groups could be cut off. He put the elderly and the poor alike. See what? A senator points out that it is possible to work with a member of the board to find some surface on this because, as she has mentioned, it is unacceptable that we senators complete Congress without anything being done? Counts 'em out. A senator may be more at peace with his own conscience if he flaunts something in this direction than if it is not the political will of the highest rulers to move on in all of this?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u268	Madam President. I have to admit, I don't always understand the management hearing when it comes to the social security and ideals of the elderly and the desperate. Some people are talking about earning money elsewhere, and some are doing well. It's all true and true, but we're not talking about that group. This is the group that's been talking about, like, just a striped pension, that's exactly the group that's been talking about. That's the group that's going to be according to the Department of Health with 247 you. K. monthly remuneration in 2016, after all the ups men now add up to the south. The lowest salary will be at the same time 270 you. K. Is it just as good? Are the terms better than the lowest wage? I can't believe it. Government senators get caught up in this kind of account thing and shit. They must review their 12-year-old maths and see that this is not working out. To argue that raising the pension by 9.7% since January 1 is the same as increasing the lowest wage by 10.9% from May 2015 to 5.9% on May 1, 2016, is only a joke. People are being confused. People may well be saying things well, but we're not talking about the best-set group, we're talking about those with a completely striped pension. That is not the subject of this discussion; nor is it part of the budget bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u269	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for this. This is the point. I just want to come into the business of VOLV and the worry that I share with you. If the radio charge continues to be 16,400 kr. Next year, they don't raise to 17,800, like a proposal at the highest level. Secretary of education is on the outside. The government radio has been a huge fixture in the media between us and a great cultural medium that has been following us since 1930, for 85 years. You somehow realize that this institution is being broken down slowly and bites. The government radio has been very ambitious in the future, and the last losses have been made in various ways to meet the people of the land, both in a more powerful child plan and in the development of a nation's home. In all of this, there has been an expansion that would be good for this medium that the other media have not followed in their footsteps. How can you tell? A senator predicts the future of RUS? Today, some 500 million are being cut down by not raising the radio fee, and 100 are being improved. Is the radio being broken down slowly and biting in front of the nation's eyes, and is no one going to raise a little finger? Will they within the governmental parties that represent having kept seeing this passive action? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u270	Madam President. I'm concerned that this will take place on a national program and on the cost, travel out into the country, etc. If you are running a national radio and have to cut down about 500 million, it is the easiest thing to look at the most expensive parts and stop taking field trips and making calls, talking through a computer or something like that. It won't be as well, I think it's going to be first. 500 million are a lot of money, and the Agency has had to go through a lot of cuts and reexamination, so I think this is going to be a big impact. The radio government has made that clear. More than once, it has established a budgetary committee to review the situation and to show that reducing the cost will have dramatic consequences. I just remind you of the report on the General Assembly on State Radio. I'd like to read what the Senate Committee wrote on this in their report to prepare an arrangement adopted by all members of Congress. This is the case with President's permission: ▪ The provision of the fourth - power media, where the Kingdom News must weigh the weightier responsibility. It is important to make such arrangements that the State Radio can perform its legal role as a powerful news medium and the field of education, culture, and communication. Then the State Radio has to insist that it prefers careful research. For this to happen, it must be arranged so that the State Radio can expel and live up to the demands. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u271	V.E.G. President. Yesterday they requested the highest order. A health minister, Kristján Þór Júlíusson, would attend this discussion, including to discuss the state of the Hospital and Health Care Professional in the light of the budget discussed here. I feel that he is now involved in this discussion more than even after the information that came from what happened. paritaprevir Oddný's Harðardóttir, a member of the General Assembly Fund, explained to us that in the original work data that came before the committee, invitations were made at the New York Centers. It says that further discussion of the matter has brought about the loss of this expression, whereas it was at the height of its expression. Secretary of the budget of a radio show at the Wave of the Waves agreed with previous evidence on the matter that there is a right to offer out the health care providers. [[The president calls.]] Don't we have a right to discuss this, chief? President? Is not normal at the highest. Is the Minister of Health coming here to represent him? What is right in these matters?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u272	The president will request that they contact the highest level. A health minister asked him to come here for a discussion. Senators.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u273	President. I agree with my wish. paritaprevir Ögmundur of Jónasson's son to the highest. Your health minister please report to the meeting. There was a request for his presence here last night sometime between the clock. 1 and 2. For some reason, he could not cope with the meeting. V.E.G. While a minister of education came along, he failed to participate in discussions with members of the Parliament who specifically addressed him and discussed the subject of the Kingdom News primarily on his arrival. I think everyone must be aware that a conversation with a health minister is needed before 2rd. The budget concludes, and what stands out there is repetitive and well - supported wishes of the heads of the Land Hospital for increased financial gains for various reasons, as a result of maintenance, pay expenses, and general management. I insist that the senator's wishes be called the health minister. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u274	Madam President. I also insist. paritaprevir Ögmundur of Jónasson's son to the highest. The health minister comes here, has a place of words for us, at least listen to what we have to say and answer for various things. I'd also like to remind you that I wanted to go to the highest level. The Minister of Education and Culture listened to my speech. But I had to react and move back in line, so I understand. Well, the Minister of Education and Culture didn't realize it and probably intended to listen to me later tonight, but I'm going to re-establish myself because I wish to speak of the State Radio and National Library. Secretary of education and culture in the hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u275	The president says that they are trying to communicate to the highest level. Secretary of health.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u276	A respectable president. I agree with this request. Similarly, when this bill is being discussed, I would like to see the highest legal committee in the hall. Not only have they brought back and forth changes during the discussion but they have called certain ills from our seats about what we've been saying. It would be important for us to have that conversation in return so that I also wish to be called to the head of the legal committee, along with the health minister, I agree with it, and to the minister of education and culture. I also want a social and housing minister to be here because she came here earlier and while we were going over the figures on how the lowest income of a pensioner had increased by the Department of Social Affairs, about 30% between 2008 and 2009, she ran out. It was while calling after a conversation with her about how they could resist calling out that this was some kind of a record when it is the case with starving pensioners in this country. [[The president calls.]] I'd like these Prime Ministers to come here with the lead of the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u277	The President will see to it that all Member States that have been identified, the leading legal committee, are called at the highest level. Secretary of education, the highest. Secretary of health and the highest. Minister of Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u278	Madam President. It doesn't have to call out a search team to try to get to the highest level. A health minister? V.E.G. The president here informed him that messages had been made to him that his presence was requested at the General Assembly. But it was not the very best. Mr President and now sitting on his chair behind me, which gave exactly the same information in the middle of the last night? At that time, messages were being received to the highest level. Minister for his presence to be required. So it's the highest. Secretary of health lost? Haven't anything asked him since last night? I'm really supposed to ask you what. paritaprevir The servant of Ögmundur, the son of Jónasson, is expected to come here day after day and desire that he be treated with his democratic right to speak with the Supreme Court. The Minister of Health, and it is constantly being arranged for the council to reach the highest level. Minister? It's not time to get to the top. The president will stop this meeting and leave the night to the highest level. Health Ministers are afraid to come up with a discussion about health matters in connection with the budget?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u279	A respectable president. I thank the President for bringing a message to this committee minister. It's just a routine, but I don't think it's sufficient for the Commission to attend the discussion. I don't think the debate will be able to continue at the Senate Hall unless it is available to the head of the legal committee. I don't think that's what happened to 2nd. budgets, that it has been performed without leading the legal committee to attend. It is simply the organization in this house. If they are not available, it is possible to delay the meeting until these senators have reached him. The discussion cannot be conducted without the point of being present. Here's 300 motion adjustments from what? The members of the council of Vigdís Hauksdóttir and Guðlaugur of Þór Þórðarson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u280	Madam President. I agree with that. My fellow councilmen who have spoken to us in the highest house. Ministers of cultures, Ministers of Social Affairs, and especially Health Ministers, as well as the head of the legal committee. I think that I am next on the program with a talk, and I would like to have the head of the legal committee in the hall. Since it's now 7: 00 p.m. I think it would be wise to go to the top. The president is now taking a lunch break and making sure they're at the highest level. Ministers who have been requested and outside the budget board have room to come into the room, be in the discussion, and join in the discussion ahead. I suggest this where it's seven o'clock. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u281	Madam President. I think it's a matter of time before the council is out of control. Today, members of Parliament wish to speak with the executive executive who makes the most payful case. Day after day, they get the answers that are being received to the highest level. Secretary of health. If they don't do anything against the Council, they'll be fine. Congress officials are privileged to enjoy the unscrupulous privilege of speaking at the highest level. A minister for health matters, for example? Those members of the council who are to use discussions to speak with the executives of the executives about the classes they are responsible for are said to eat what is out of nowhere. They almost control the fact that answers are the best. One president, more and more, day after day, is told that he is being driven to a total of counsellors. [[The president calls.]] Hv. paritaprevir The Ögmundur of Jónasson has been asking for it for days and still nothing at the top. Secretary of health. Is it not true, then, that we call out rescue crews and the emergency society to try to find the highest. Minister and get him in the house?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u282	The president would like to remind us of an agreement he felt he had made with members of Congress yesterday. The members of the council respected a speech lesson against the removal of a bell beat by the president. President hopes we have an agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u283	V.E.G. President. I'll respect this agreement that I was first hearing about right now, but I don't think it's unnatural. Thank you, too, the highest. The president for stating that messages were introduced to the relevant party to come to the meeting, but I must say in my part that I find it very strange that neither president nor vice president of a legal committee should be at the General Assembly Hall during the discussion of financial matters. Then I want to tell you the other thing, if anyone thinks it's some act of ours, if anyone should think I'm playing when it's personalized, and I'm demanding an answer so that I know what we're dealing with, what we're sharing, that's a big misunderstanding. I think it's a serious matter. We have now been informed at Parliament that the worksheets originally set up for a financial committee requiring a change of invitations and privatization have been changed. [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. However, a minister of finance has agreed with these views - I had forgotten that for a time I was going to respect an agreement and immediately step out of a pita.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u284	A respectable president. It's been Dutch here since the day one, when we started discussing the budget that the members of the administration have just taken us apart, people trying to find a purpose in life by standing here and talking into one thing. They should rather come here and listen to what we're saying. What we are talking about is that additional donations are needed for health care. We're here also protesting that people are smuggling through the budget all kinds of massive policy changes, as we have considered, in terms of privatization of health health care as well as education policy changes in which 25 years of age and older have been pushed out of high school. It's these big policy issues we're discussing, that I don't talk about the ideal older citizens and the poor. This is serious stuff we're talking about. It's not just some good people's power at a government stand trying to find a purpose. I think the senators and the Ministers should jump into the hall, have a conversation with us about these matters, and explain why they do not react to their pleas for change. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u285	A respectable president. It's simply come out first of the highest. Kristján Þór Júlíusson's health minister has repeatedly failed to offer an invitation to attend the discussion day after day. Kristján Þór Júlíusson's health minister is afraid to take the discussion, not relying on political discussions, neither on his separation from the Land Hospital, nor on his personal development plans. This is similar to the minister, for what he has been able to do during the election period is to avoid discussing controversial matters with him. But there was a second minister in a problem called here yesterday. V.E.G. While the minister of education did not trust in discussing RUS, he showed respect for the council and the president for the discussion and for listening. I exhort Kristján, the Þór of Júlíusson, that, though he is afraid of the discussion, he may come to the minister's office, and listen to the matter at least. paritaprevir Aggmme Jónasson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u286	Madam President. It may not be strange at the very height. Ministers do not want to be seen in the Assembly Hall and want to remove the difficult discussion that has been difficult. Heavy has gotten into society, and people are watching how they are affected. Parliamentaries speak in this discussion. It is very pronounced that the head of the budget board has not been to observe the discussion, not today, and not much of it was seen last night, and I understand that in the federal hearing, the chairman of the budget committee and the head of the committee are discussing the budget so I feel that the monopolitan is going to be granted a break and then may be at the head of a budget hearing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u287	President. I think that in the minds of most of the Icelanders, the core of the council meetings is that we here know that there are other agencies, both in committees and in preparation for the everyday lives of members of Congress. In 1st. 65. g. According to a contemporaneous song: It is important for members of Parliament to attend all meetings unless they have to be banned. Precautions should be announced as soon as possible to the president and considered the need. I want to know who's incursive. Chairman of the budget board and vice president of the budget Committee, Vigdís Hauksdóttir and the Goddess of Þór Þórðarson, who are legally obliged to attend the discussion and, of course, in addition to objective views. [[The president calls.]] Also, I would like to ask you about the alibis of the Honourable Minister, who has been persistently proclaimed and subject to the same legal process, as well as to members of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u288	Madam President. I'm going to use this speech, which is the fourth of this grand case, the budget for 2016, to be primarily wearing national glasses on me, and to review only the factors I've inspired but just want to go deeper into. They turn to the transport program, application plan, network and communication plan, tools to build up on the land what the government puts into practice, and the local, national, part of the country, work with the government in setting up priorities and building up. In my first speech, I criticized the lack of funds and the money I needed in the programs mentioned above. There is shame in the fact that transport plans are not yet available. According to the 2016 budget bill, in response to the revision of more of the legal committees, a fourth contact with the Western Union was sent by a financial committee. I'm just gonna grab hold of this business, with President's permission: ▪ The Western European Union considers the proposals to be a greater part of the World Commission at 2 Corinthians. The budget of 2016 reflects the state of the government's long-term long-term strategy, such as its transport plan, national parish, national planning, communication plan, and communication plan. In the case of transport and telecommunications programmes, there is no record of a reevaluation of the estimates, such as by the General Assembly, or that economics do not reflect the objective of the local government, such as the national parish and nationalisation programmes. In order to cope with the most urgent solution, there is an act taken each year by subsidies, which will be discussed each year in the payment of budgets. Thus, employment will be unscheduled, planning decision-making problems, and timing of action will work randomly, although most activities are intended to be positive in most cases. The forwarding plans for the development of the West have also given the fourth relationship much emphasis to the development and effectiveness of the project and to the timing and uncertainty of its progress. Here, the fourth relationship follows the common policy of the national part of the community but is moved to discuss the situation of specific tasks relating to transport and communication. So on December 8, the Qualification Committee of the European Union was assigned to discuss the proposal of a greater proportion of legal committees at their meeting. The approved members of the committee continued. I'm going to grab into one of the votes that will appear, by permission of the President: ▪ A U.S. Administrative Commission oversurrections on how bad plans are going and challenges governments and the General to work on the case seriously. A national policy strategy is a fundamental document, and it is disturbing that the third year in a row the matter should not be completed by the Council. I agree with that. Here's a deal with the budget force 06-672, airports and flying history services: In the Committee of Committees, the Commission supports the proposal that there is an increase in funding for international flights. A walking committee points this out to a 3rd. budget 2016 that the budget of 2016 will be funded for research at the new Western airport airport. I want to agree with this. I called attention to this in my first talk on these matters, where the adjustment is made to a greater proportion of the legal committee at 2 Corinthians. It went out to put 400 million into this team, that in itself the budget bill would be cut down about 500 million. The estimated 100 million are still missing, so there is not everything that seems to be involved. By permission of the President, the Summit Reconnaissance states: A European Parliament restricts governments to review possible new airports on Western soil that can serve national and international flights. The expansion of the service area of such airports is indicated by the development of animal soil tunnels and a new route through Dufiningh. A new airport is an important prerequisite for further domestic development in the part of the country. Then I want to draw attention to the fact that the House Air Force Airport, which has been the final airport for Isafjörður, has not been in use for another year. That's pathetic. More often than not when it has not been possible to fly to the Isafjörður Airport, it would have been possible to land on the Fleet Airport because the wind is not usually the same there as in Skulls, but the stadium does not suggest landing there with a full-scale aircraft, so it has not been in use. That decision must have been made somewhere because there is no money to rebuild the load at the airport. I feel totally ashamed of how the weakest areas of the country are punched down gradually. Not necessarily in public, it just happens behind the scenes that these areas are being weakened. Thereafter, members of the board can come forward and address themselves with a loud voice, saying that they are putting much money in the construction of the country in the urban development of the subsidies of the budget, the budgets that demonstrate cash subsidies for the construction of the country in so many areas. Although there are some reliefs in the form of small sums of money here and there, it is not to meet the greater need available to support the ill in these areas. I'd like to go back to the Foursome Union of the West. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ The Commission rejoices that increased funds for transport are now being provided in 2016 for road construction outside the foundation system, but protests strongly on the work modalities of the contributions to the proposal of a greater part of the legal committee with the reports on individual projects. A board of directors at the General Assembly will immediately implement a transport plan and use it in the setting of priorities. I'd like to add that in the changes in the majority of the items, 235 million come into this section of road construction and maintenance, which are small financial items in the road and run out in a few days if they're to be carried in or built up, I'm not talking about, if you're building up the road permanently, or if you're building up the road. These are just small ones when it comes to road repair, 235 million who are set inaccessiblely out of transport. Therefore, the Transport Committee protests the Qualifications of the Western Union and wants projects to be organized and prioritized according to a transport plan. I'm gonna call it a day. I thought it was time for me to give this discussion to the country. We've spent a lot of time fighting for the improved interest of old and disability pensioners, and that struggle continues, but the struggle for the country is going on, and I'm going to do the same. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u289	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a fine talk and agrees that it is worth discussing the interests of the country with this discussion, though we certainly do not take the emphasis to whatever other factors we have considered for a while. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Parliament whether it believes that by increasing national independence, especially from rural society, these interests can be guaranteed better than taxation goes into the state's budget, and so on political grounds at the high General Assembly. I would like to point out two policies that have been adopted by us tortured as policy. These include the possibility of disintegrating the income of state funds and expenses from rural areas. Such analysis would, for example, make it easier for us to determine if a income tax was a good idea to be paid to a rural society where a company has income-related activity, or a merit tax. When I go to a country less often than I would like to, I often get the complaint that it feels like all the money I have to go to Reykjavík, and then, when it comes to politics, there's an enormous amount of value in the country that comes in the form of taxes, the taxes go down to Reykjavík in real life, to a state fund, and it's reassigned from there. I wonder what. A senator would agree to increase the independence of rural society and to increase national independence, regardless of what it might be, would lead to these areas making decisions for other things that are determined here, I don't know by tunnels, but certainly roads and similar ones. I wondered, " What is the position? ' Let the senator do this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u290	Madam President. These are big questions. So I think that we're one nation in one country, and I want us to think in a way that we don't begin to separate ourselves too much. But I agree that it is the task of working abroad, paying taxes, and fulfilling their duties that it results in the areas where employment is carried out. Granted, it has been a problem that companies have a wide range of activities around the country, whether in the West or elsewhere, but they do not necessarily pay their expenses in those areas. I think there's a need to reimburse the possibility of reaching out tax returns into the areas where the income is obtained. I also believe that we can use the tools we've gotten up to today. I mentioned in my talk a program and a groundwork plan and all the plans that we have that are fine tools that can be used as a guide for funding to build up the wood. Of course, it is very good to have the national parting organization involved, as in these plans, and money spent in the vicinity of the environment with the will of those living there, that much more can be directed into the process so that any decision - making operation is not in the capital area of government officials, ministers, or anything else. I think we can do so much better, too, in view of today's process.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u291	A respectable president. I sincerely agree that we can do better, so I'm sure we can. I myself believe that self - determination is one of the key elements of civilized society and the more people are allowed to control their own interests so much better. It can mean something to other people. For example, all of us need to pay taxes and force one another to pay taxes in order to maintain law enforcement and judicial systems in order to protect our rights, so this is not cut and cut. But as I say, people often ask me when I'm going to the country, and even when I'm here, does the country have information in Reykjavík? It seems to me that in the country, there will be something far more valuable than return. That's why I don't realize why all these decisions need to be made here. Sure, we're supposed to think about each other, but I have to say, as it is that I live in Reykjavík, and I'm not going to live somewhere else for now, and I don't know why it doesn't really decide.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u292	Madam President. I think it should all be done in order to increase understanding between the country and the capital area, because it's the best interests of all of us in this country. We are only about 330 thousand, so we work together and build this country together, having fellow feeling for one another as a nation wherever we live. I think it's most critical. If we take the West, because it is high in my mind, then the population is now under 7 of you. for man and for its inhabitants alone, of course, there is no way that they can live up to the basics that must be present in that community. But the population in the past has contributed enormous currency to society, so it's not as if they're asking for alms when they make roads and infrastructures and the like. [[The president calls.]] This belongs to those inhabitants and residents in a similar situation in other parts of the country at the State's headquarters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u293	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator was eager to have spent his second speech session discussing national affairs. I agree, both with her and with her. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, the wrong thing to do. In view of income and resource consumption, the product is misinformed. I just want to talk about the transportation issues. A senator. She discussed it herself in her talk, and she drew attention to the 14th - century Western Union, which includes the need for a new airport event on the West Coast. In fact, a United States Air Force airport that has been supposed to be a reserve airport for Isafjörður has not been used as one for years. No one knows where or how that decision was made, but for some reason the course has not been used. This is naturally of utmost importance for the structure of the region and for the possibility of the region. Then we look up that year after year it is postponed to provide out the animal tunnel, which is key to everything that is promised to be a work structure and residence security and development in this region. In fact, there is no government policy, nor has it been in force since 2014. How does that look? A senator and how does she see the future of the area if it becomes so frozen, although only for the next two or three years?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u294	V.E.G. President. It takes months for every year for the development of transport on the West. Me and what. A senator well knows what plans were being made for the investment program adopted during the last term and should have been completed by an animal tunnel to be completed in 2018 and 2020, but he is now facing a delay. There is no transport plan, and you want to believe that there will be an outing of the animal soil and the development of The Team honors at the same time, which seems to delay at least until 2017. It's just such a precious time. It has been observed that during the summer of openings between the southern and northern West, for example, the industry has worked very hard together in the case of salmon farming and other factors linked to it. This shows that there is no time to lose both the construction of roads and the completion of roads in the Barred Coast and the implementation of animal funerals and Theudderdir. It has to do with belief that the inhabitants of this area have faith in the future, that employment life believes that governments will accompany them on their project to build up, and that when there is certainly a rise, such as in southern Western lands, which will infect them in various marine activities and in southern Western farming. All of this adds up, and the government must start showing the cards, "What are they going to do? " I may be better able to come into the airport in a second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u295	A respectable president. I'll agree with that. The only thing asked about the settlements, for example, on the Westland is that the homeland laws are allowed to save themselves; they ask for nothing else. It is as if humans were spared to realize that living in the best of their own means is the benefit of living. Consider, for example, the animal tunnel. It is essential that governments themselves work together as members of a community, united with the administrative institutions. They are essential for making the whole area a single service area and one area that has become very urgent, just to make good use of the innovation potential in the tourism, fish fire, and other areas of growth that are already growing in the West, I don't speak of by the electrical security that could be enhanced by putting the animal footprints on so that they could be taken from the earth through the tunnel. [[The president calls.]] Does the senator not agree that the settlements are allowed to save itself?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u296	Madam President. I wholeheartedly agree that the settlements need to be used by the tools and natural resources they have in their territory. With regard to energy, there are ideas of cocoon factories in Eelfjörður and a lot of planks up there. We know that the calcium microchip plant on the Eagle farm has gone very well, but what lies on the coast is energy security and energy delivery security. Invasion is a novelty, and it would be one thing that the government could do and show something about the cards, starting it with support for the sea cables on the Deep or any way that is best and most beneficial to them. I would like to draw attention to the fact that there are so many opportunities in the country, in the West, and, of course, in other areas of the country that must be used. [[The president calls.]] There must be some force in the budget for these settlements, and there must be legal means instead of having a hippos vote, as it seems to stick to this government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u297	Madam President. Other threads have become a discussion of the Vests'holiday. I haven't made a deal with myself yet, if I'm a good leader or not. A member of the Parliament referred to the Transport Committee on the Fourth Union of the West and naturally complained about the part of the Western Union. It caught my attention when I read the Commission's opinion of the greater part that what it says on transport matters is extremely poor, but it is said that there can be a way to facilitate policy action that needs to be addressed in transport terms is that the government is reducing its interest charges so that more money can be made to go into transport. It's all very reasonable, but isn't it? It does, however, exist that in this same large - scale party, it is quite recognized that there is nothing to cover debt. This is not surprising to us, who participated in a long - term discussion of a government budget. It literally stated that for the next three years there would be no payment on a worthy debt. Similarly, you can read out of the majority opinion in many places, so it is expected that the government's investment level will remain unchanged below and even above 2019. I wondered, " Have I come to know what this declaration means? ' I believe that the people of this country are being told exactly that nothing is going to be done beyond what is currently being done. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: When she goes home to the province, discussing the transport policy presented in the committee opinion, could it not be called a policy of starving policy towards the country?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u298	A respectable president. I can totally agree with this. I feel that the policy of transportation, whether by road, flight, or porting, has just been a starving policy since the start of this government. The major projects now being carried out are the decisions made by the former government, which were triggered. Such is the reality. The present government has shown no ambition for transport or for the development of transport since it began. The budget today does not reflect any way in which some money should be put into the infrastructure throughout the country. It's not like it's just with the people of the country who use this investment, it's going to come to the country at 1.3 million tourists, to me, next year. These people go all the way through the country, and they have to travel in some road trails, unable to travel far and wide around the country. Of course, that is not acceptable. We make huge money from tourists, but we don't let them go into infrastructure like the road. We Westerners have often observed that when the capital area is breached and you fear inflation and start driving everything down on the government's side for building up money, in order to produce transport workers, something that is not available has begun to be cut down. We're paying for the expansion of the country, which has not been given any repulsion or economic growth to us.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u299	Madam President. I hope so. A senator does not have to prophesy about the impending expansion. I myself believe that there is a lower chance of the expansion that humans sometimes talk about than many people think, and they might discuss it further. I agree with what. A senator's view of the importance of transport, not just for those living in the country, is that it is of great importance. Transport is, in effect, what gives us who live here at the southwest corner the freedom to travel in their own land. It is also necessary to attack transport in order to promote tourism, which is now becoming the largest currency sector in the country. I call the policy displayed in this bill nothing more than a clean hunger policy and, as a matter of fact, the committee's opinion is reinforced by saying that it takes decades of civilian donations to repair roads and achieve adequate transportation. So I am afraid of it on behalf of the country's behalf, and I think that it is a great news for the settlements to come and bring it home to the province. [[The president calls.]] I'm not sure everyone knows about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u300	Madam President. I just agree with what. Senator on this. I don't think the people of the country realize exactly how little money is spent on transportation and how little ambition is left for the current government to do better. Hv. paritaprevir In his speech on the budget bill, Haraldur Benediktsson said that transport was not a major resource because the government had to pay 33 billion on the basis of collective agreements. I thought it was kind of ridiculous.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u301	That's 32 billion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u302	- 32 billion. When, then, is there room for transportation in the country? There will always be increases in collective agreements, and there will always be interest to pay back and forth. When the government throws down the currency and cuts down and stops having capital taxes, energy taxes, and waives that amount to tens of billions of dollars, it shows that humans can neither support transport plans nor contribute to this group. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u303	Madam President. It is a true honor to give this speech, and I believe it has been a very long time since the Hall of Congress was as well prepared as right now. Here we have covered the area, but before this, interesting discussions about regional, regional, transport, and then I have to know that I've never been able to give a talk on the budget without worrying about the year's events. I believe one of the things that are seriously lacking on the basis of the European Commission is making progress in improving the transport process of yearneshrepps. Many times I've told my speeches that Iceland works when two settlements are clear. One is Grimey, and the other is Auronesphret. Now it's that way. A government has done at least one good thing to do in local matters. V.E.G. The government was careful and careful in the affairs of the Giormese, and it can be said that at least for its own part, it was a solid foundation for a continuation in the Gímney. Thanks to that. However, as an old amateur on the basis of Auronesf, who has observed human life there, I find, unfortunately, that is now churning the foundations of more than once, after years of having seen a considerable rise in what I seemed to be. I challenge the executives of the executives in this room, even the highest. Secretary of education. Although he may not be directly related to the matter in his case and trade, that is so much the case. A minister of education should be attributed, at least to this district, to the duty of that beard. I wish for the highest. A minister now wondered, " How can I come to trust the support of Aarneshrep? ' There is some fate set free over the government in the current financial debate. Over and over here, there have been times when there is much dissatisfaction, not only among the members of the council's opposition but also on the members of the management team regarding that mission, so I'll allow myself to use that word, to use it, to the elderly and the microplies that are found in this bill and in the related primary project. As we have seen so many times, it is evident that during the time of the election, which has now been almost 2/3 and more so, and up to this day, this government, which has now sent here into the public speakers of one another to boast of the tremendously superiorness of the council. The government has taken care of the elderly and the desperate, improving the terms of those who correspond to one piece of shit of ten thousand when taxes have been detracted. That's all. That happens at the same time as every member of the board comes up here and talks about the better-looking kinder who lives here. It is true, and thanks to much of the work of the former government, it laid a fine foundation for the economic situation today that the economy has brought forward in an extremely positive way. This has led to the expansion of the government's tax markets, the increase in money to the State, and still, that is the case at the very same time. The government has not trusted to go beyond the right of the elderly and the desperate. What is then of utmost importance is that which shows and underscores the attitude toward the elderly and the microchip here in Iceland. The fact is that they are the only group that can't recover in a retrospective fashion. V.E.G. The Minister of Education here on the Ministerial Class, and other members of the council here in the hall, will be restored to March 1st - even ministers and members of Congress. All those who have somehow been buried under collective agreements during the current year will also receive improvements that reach back to May 1. It has been suggested in this fall that the government agrees that the elderly and the desperate will receive the same compensation. When we review the cores of the controversy that has been reflected in the discussion, creating the extreme heat, that I do not say the violins that we find in it, there are three main challenges to the government. First of all, the conduct of the Land Hospital. It is clear that there is a total of 2.9 billion. It has been well documented by the director of the Land Hospital who visited a financial committee and presented evidence that has not been affected, and he has shown strong evidence that in order to keep the hospital in check only what was in the past year, 2.9 billion would be needed. I believe that the government opposition, which has been tattooed for promoting a filancy for the council, should not stop taking advantage of its freedom of speech and should not walk from here to Christmas until it is absolutely clear that the Supreme Court is here. In some way, a government will meet the need for the Land Hospital. Second, it is a matter of crucial importance to the elderly and disability, and it is the headband on the side of the government side to agree that the elderly and the desperate will be reimbursed, in accordance with others, and in accordance with the proposal made by the politicians. Third, it's the State Radio issue. Now it's such a good hunting time. The Minister of Education is shocked by his nap in the Ministry and has come to the council. That's why I think it's inevitable to ask the highest question. Minister in how he sees the immediate future of The Kingdom Radio. Of course, the occasion has come, in fact, come out of the mouth of the highest. Minister not to support his proposal for the government. Then I ask the highest. Minister: What can they do? Is it simply that way? Ministers are going to watch the State Radio go down in their hands or go to the top. A minister in some way resort to the effective measures? And counts at the highest. Minister that funding can be taken away without at least a step toward improving the state of the Kingdom News? Madam President. Only at the end of my speech will I conclude with what I counted here under "No." 2 i.e. The concern of the elderly and the desperate. What makes me sad is that it's come every time. A member of the board of directors after others, speaking of his eyes filled with crocodile's tears that he wants to do the other, wanting to do something better. But in what way? Hv. paritaprevir Today, Willum Þór Thor Þórsson gave a speech under the council, saying that it is not yet clear how the situation could be balanced within a group of invalids and the elderly. Hv. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson had here a brilliant speech today. He also declared it in a similar way to what happened. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson said it was so hard to figure it out. However, it was possible for the government to slow it down. paritaprevir The Ásmundur of Friðriksson that he remembered here at the second discussion of a bill for financial aid supports suggestions that would show that the elderly and the desperate receive reimbursement, and many other members of the council have spoken in the same way. I cannot help but ask a Senate, especially members of the Independence Party: Will they come up here and talk about their good intentions to improve the status of the elderly and the desperate but do nothing? Should be foreordained. paritaprevir Does the Ásmundur of Friðriksson like to go against the current? That's why. A senator who quoted and quoted a sacred book: By his actions, humans will be judged. And by their works to the elderly and to the poor, this government will be judged. If that happens, it will be judged and found deficient, for there is no justification that the elderly and the desperate one of society's groups will not be paid back in the same way that each citizen of another society has received. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u304	A respectable president. At the beginning of his talk, there was a reason. A member of the Parliament that the Hall of Congress was extremely well - educated, it could be said that he was no better man than he was already aggressor. The senator was the last person in the hall. [[Up front.]] Because of what? A senator asked me about the state radio in the near future. It's quite clear that if the radio rate declines from 17,800 k. of 16,400k. is a significant cut-off. It is important to keep it in place that it has been in the past for quite a long time. I told last spring that I thought it was right to drop this one in one way because it has been very clear that the state's headquarters is bad, which was part of a report called the Oythor Arnaldur. It makes clear that the decision was made at the end of the 16400 C.E. has it been observed that by then the cost of Kingdom broadcast is substantially and much higher. My opinion is that it needs to be taken into consideration. Similarly, pay rates have been significantly higher than expected. I think people must look to them too. I think it's fair to set things up that way. Then, of course, there is a very different, big debate about what will be the future of Our Kingdom News, how it will be handled best. I've tore it up in public that it is necessary to look to the many changes in technology and consumption that have occurred in the media, which, of course, require rethinking on a number of things about the government's access to radio and television. That's different. It's a long-term watch. Now we're watching this show, and I think it's going to require major action on the State Radio if this works out in the least legal way today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u305	Madam President. It was not by chance that I used the word fateless fire earlier. It's, like, the highest. A minister of education knows, adopted from The Genius, or associated with events that are devoted to the Hinnaut, at the highest level. A minister of education today has strong roots. I think there's some kind of fate in the state radio business, and that's because of the following: Here's the highest. Secretary of education to express his good will. I agree with the ultimate argument. Minister moved here. I agree that the cost of distribution is much higher and much higher than expected, and it must also be taken into account that there have been substantial increases above what the government expected. That's what we're at the highest. Secretary of education agrees. That is what the government is all about, and it is the highest. Secretary of education agrees. But it just so happens. The Minister of Education seems to be standing alone inside the government when it comes to these matters. It has come forward, and I believe a minister himself has said that he has submitted a suggestion to the government that was stopped. From the outside, pressure was put against her from the wind. Chairman of the budget board and what. The vice president of the budget board, the two of which have been the most difficult devils. A minister has had to drag along through his career. But within the government, the Minister doesn't have any support, so that's why I say there's some fate in the matter of state television. Here is a minister who has abandoned his original error and has seen the sensible things in the matter, who wants to fight for it, but who does not have the power to do so. He does not have the support. Then I ask the highest. First of all, how does he view his administrative situation as it turns out that his policy in the affairs of the Kingdom News is not trustd within the government? [[The president calls.]] Second, what are these measures that he believes the State Radio needs to act if they do so today? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u306	A respectable president. The administrative situation of the minister is not changed because of this. That should be why. A senator is well - known when he is, to the highest level. Foreign Ministers, in the case of the case he and his party had put the greatest emphasis on government cooperation, either by his second - class vote, on ice. It did not turn into a government position of the minister. It is well known that ministers can enter a position not to come up with a case at the council or out of the government, but it does not change the government situation here. But the obvious thing is that the radio charge will drop from 17,800 to 16,400k. you need to take action. And there's only one way to do that, that is to cut down in the ministry. However, it also needs to be considered on the basis of a service agreement, since it must be consistent between the requirements we make of the government for this institution in the law or service agreement, and then the funds the Agency receives for this purpose. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u307	Madam President. That's what I'm talking about. Ministers move in here, which are the smells of the EU speech application during the past administration, is very different from this. It's like the highest. According to a minister, it was a case on ice, a government release for what all stood for, including me, so there were many other circumstances and other causes that caused it. I'd still be if I were the best. Ministers give great consideration to my situation in the case of such a big issue as the State Radio. V.E.G. A minister has a firm policy on the matter that he has promoted in text, a proposal presented in the government, and then it turns out that within the government, he has neither the support of the head of the Independence Party nor the chairman of the forward party. At least I'd say I'm going to the highest position. A minister would be pretty loose. Other than that, I wish the highest. Ministers are successful in convincing themselves that he should remain in the present location, i.e. In the government of Iceland. [[The president calls.]] I'd wonder if it's the right place for him if that's the end of it. [[The president calls.]] But I also wish him a success in his fight to achieve at least some of the things now lacking between 2 and 3. Although it is very long before the 3rd. starts here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u308	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson for a very busy, dynamic speech, as expected from them. Senator. I'd like to ask you what. A senator who has been at council for as long as I have been in the past for as long as he is now a member of the United States Hospital. I feel like the history of the Land Hospital and the history of the Icelandic Health Organization have been the one since I was born all the way, that there's always been more money in the world. And I remember that even during the good times, the Landskeeper was wondering how he should be running a business, and it was when it was well, considering the way things were going on in the last government that followed a collapse. 2009 was not a normal year; 2008 was not a normal year. I think there was a national agreement, as it were, that we were in a special position and that everyone had to go through one thing, including the other. Old and desperate, and poorer to save state funds, to save the land from a direct bank crash or bankruptcy. I'm asking why. In the 1920's, a senator who has been here watching these matters for the past 30 years said: "How is it that in the past 30 years the United States has not kept a better watch over the Land Hospital than it is now that doctors have left the country simply because they can get a better choice elsewhere and we invite them to be in leaked houses? I ask, "Why hasn't this party been more comfortable? "
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u309	Madam President. It is a chilling fact, though, that the year I entered a council, I was born before. Senator. But neither of us can change that. Of course, all this time on the part of certain political elements, pressure has been made to increase private business and then to turn private business into a clean personalization. Other threads are the driving force of this development. I suppose, though, that there was always national agreement to promote the hospital, and after he was united in the place he is now, I felt that it was more apparent than at once, I think at that time. A senator was probably learning to walk, first declared that a new hospital should be built. Men have been fighting over it ever since. In the past government, I don't want to say that there was a national agreement for the operation, which was at least Not opposition to the high council, but much more was cut out. When you look back, I'd figure that out, for example. In 2008, a fixed price may have been a 25% reduction. That's enormous. Then, if you look at the situation now, you will see from the evidence that Páll the son of Matthíasson suggested the lack of 2.9 billion just yesterday. If you're looking at 2008 through 2015, I'm reminded of the situation in 5.7 billion. This is because the nation has grown, the nation has grown older, and this may be the most important thing. The number of people who are over 70 years of age has increased even more than 80 years of age, and these are the ones who need the most care. [[The president calls.]] It costs more money, and that's why the hospital needs 2.9 billion just to keep missing in the last year.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u310	A respectable president. These numbers are exactly what they are. In the large context, it seems that there is no particular large sum, especially on the basis of the enormous sum we are talking about in this regard. It has been observed many times, the polls Piratars have made for themselves, that it is the health system, the welfare system that people want to put in first place. The public wants a welfare community. They want to spend money on the welfare and the hospital. Why are we not setting priorities that way? I want 75 million here. K. to build a building at the Allied Council of Iceland, which is probably a violation of author rights. Why is it that we're going into some pet project while we're starving the Land Hospital? Not supposed to put 30 million. K. in any counseling group? Wouldn't it be better to buy a piece and paint for that money? I'm just asking.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u311	Madam President. Perhaps I'm going to rephrase the question and throw it down. Senator. Why hasn't she seen the highest. A health minister here during the discussion? Why is there a what? paritaprevir The Ögmundur of Jónasson's son would have to wait for days to reach its height. Health Minister detected? Why has the president of the Senate been told day after day that messages were reached to the highest level? He's a health minister, but he's never been here? He is not afraid of the discussion, not just because the hospital is blackmailed but because he fears the questions that await him. paritaprevir Because Jónasson's son is a matter of principle, of privatization. There are strong elements within the Independence Party that obviously do not want to place more money in the Land Hospital but use the fact that there is a lack of money to push activity out of the hospital to the private market. And those who run the private market are former tops, even tops, within the Independence Party. That's why. However, this key question cannot be discussed by Congress at the highest level. Secretary of health.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u312	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Acquirer for a poor lawsuit. The truth is, I would have preferred to stop at what I said. A senator and a chief. Secretary of education earlier, there were some informative debates for a number of reasons. The short - term financial hardship of The Kingdom News was considered, and then the top was turned aside. Education minister to see that another thread was then the future of The Kingdom Radio. This reminds us how important it is to take this discussion with the highest priority. The members of the seminars. This is not just with a minister of education, a health minister who is not involved in this discussion, though he is being asked to do so. What I wanted to do was take part in the exchange of words that lie ahead of me. A senator is the controversy that is rising here at the council. There's a lot of debate over the budget, and it's getting tough. Here comes the highest. The prime minister until yesterday said there would be no stumbling block. Here we have listened to one of the proselytists after another, saying that it would be inappropriate for the council to end now without making any changes in the budget. I agree with that. Hv. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Aphphénsson announced the factors he considers the most important in this regard. The conclusion may now seem to be some sort of agreement. But what factors are they? A senator makes the most important point that the government meets the wishes of the government? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u313	Madam President. I don't know if this argument ends with any agreement. It seems to me that there are no peacemakers that the government has to care for. I have said, however, that there are three major factors. First, to increase the pressure to RUS, second, to increase the supply to the Land Hospital and third, to agree in some way that disability and the elderly will be restored to May 1. I think it's a key point. It's just a core point of the big conflict here. I honestly say that I have no interest in stopping taking advantage of my freedom of speech until some form of agreement has been taken. I think it's going very hard, and I think it's about time that the elderly and the microgeries are getting older. I believe that they are being taken and placed aside by one group, that only the Icelanders can't enjoy what all other Icelanders enjoy, and I think that it is the role of the government opposition to stand in the same place and show that the elderly and the desperate have strong agents in the Allied Council that will not give up until they are literally trampled down by a more violent section. Of course, it is the leading class. The prime minister who promoted both general laws in dealing with other people and older ones and microptuits yesterday when he said that a staff would not be changed. Let's see. Of course, if that is the result, peace has already been ended here, not just this year, but until the end of the season. Humans reap what they sow.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u314	V.E.G. President. I wholeheartedly agree with what I have to say. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson. The requirement for a retrospective payment on the lowest paid people in the country or the people who live in the low average is to be fair - minded, but this is the only group in the country that could not be replaced. All employees have negotiated such an arrangement, and it is contrary to our sense of justice if this is not done. That's fair. With regard to the other factors, there's a sharp mention. On the other hand, a member of the U.S.R., the Kingdom News, and the medical system, especially the Hospital, and then we also turn to health care and what is happening there. Who thinks what? A senator would be the result if there were no changes in contribution to health care and to the TV program on the other hand?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u315	Madam President. I received a letter from one of the Land Hospital's staff that described the worker who created it. He described how the hospital staff exert themselves and certainly are loved by the nation but underestimated by the authorities. He described how the workers there have to do with all the major events of the nation's life, birth, and death. They experience it in such a way that their jobs are underestimated, even slighted. I think this will have a very negative impact on the working spirit in the hospital, but I also think this will lead to some of the work being done, and that is their efforts, pushed out into the market, that it is being tried to create personalization. For the State Radio, I believe, first of all, this will lead to a huge story, and, of course, cutting down on the state radio operation into a short period of time. Long-term, I think it's a clean mission to the existence of the State Radio, and it's being tried to destroy it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u316	Madam President. I wanted it earlier today to the highest. A minister of education and culture would come here to listen to my speech and deal with my questions. V.E.G. The Minister of Education and Culture has made a call from the council, which, of course, is a matter of course. In itself, it is strange that I am most grateful. Of course, you should probably be at the highest. Ministers come to the council when they are called, but as the examples have shown, this has not always happened and rarely in this discussion. So I'm really happy that I'm the best. The Minister of Education and Culture is here. There's two things I wanted to talk about. V.E.G. A minister only made comments on the state radio earlier in this discussion. I'd still like to mention the state radio. I have observed, as other citizens, that the head of the budget committee has gone very hard when it comes to State and the environment, we noticed in the 2014 discussions about the United States when it was being discussed with the Agency on the radio fee and that it should flow to the Agency in accordance with the new media or the U.S. Government Act. When it became clear that the price would be up to the State Radio, it was agreed to lower it by step and it would be 16400k. In 2016, it would be 17,800 k. We on the budget board have received the Management Board and the Management Board at more than one meeting to review the situation, and it may be clear to all who have attended a meeting that there will be a major change in the operation of the Kingdom News Radio if the fee will not remain the same as the smaller part has suggested and, in fact, the highest. The minister of education and culture spoke of the need to do something if changes are not to be made. I'm putting this in here. I know it's the highest. Speaking earlier, a minister made it very clear that he felt that the price was not to be changed. If that were to be done, there would be significant changes on the radio program and a question, Would they be able to perform their legal function? We know about the votes and that in 2015 there have been significant increases, which were just an independent cut-off of hundreds of millions of dollars. Added to this reduction in cost in 2016. But it does not seem to be supported by the fact that the radio is keeping the same radio fees, although it alone will call for cutbacks, it wants the government to go further and to put a body on the radio, so to speak, requiring adjustments. Out of the blue. The legal committee has been very thorough in this matter. The same foreword suggests that the house where the National Archives is sold, or granted permission to sell the apartments of the National Archives. I've said it here, and I've written in a minority way that this shows little understanding of the operation, it's pitching for one night with this important collection of documents and a great deal of importance to the public, both to shop in documents and to sit in a reading room. It is relevant for the administrations that the National Library is a center and is relevant to the educational community. It is important that the museum be kept safe and not tented for one night when it comes to its setting. The article speaks of selling the house and renting another house or buying another house, as if in a fog, and somehow going to be. This really surprised me. When I began to gather information about this change of pace, because a policy for the National Library is just adopted and I began looking up its contents, I saw that last year the setting was approved at Laura 25, 162, where the museum would be, and money has been reinvented for that facility. When I began to look at, research, and ask, it is revealed that the idea comes from the leading legal committee and is supported by most of it and brought here by them. That's where the Furnitarian comes back against the policy of the Ministry of Education and Culture against the highest policy. Minister's been up there. I'd like to ask you what the top. A minister is aware of this and how he feels it will affect the museum. Whether he thinks it's right, if it's the best. A minister should now have time to listen to my questions, that the setting around the National Archives should be solid and looked forward to the future in this regard. I've been to the house. I know it's not in good shape, and I need repair and redesigning, but it's cool that policy is in that direction. What's the bottom line? A minister who is responsible for the litigation of the seminars when the leading financial committee jumps like this into the lawsuits and offers changes to the highest degree. Minister wants? This applies both to the National Library and the article, of course, I know that it's just an article, but at the same time a certain course has been declared, to be on a certain route. Investors may be pressured to get their home to build a hotel. I understand the comments of the highest legal committee that need to be sold because it's on some valuable property and in a good place for a tourist service of some kind. I'm worried about such short - term thoughts, both in terms of the museum, this one museum in our constitution, as well as about the State Radio. It's going forward, apparently against maximum policy. Minister who's responsible for the seminaries, the front of the budget board. There is a leading legal committee here with a policy in these matters. It's shown up in a change of motion. I hope to the highest. Minister will respond to my speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u317	A respectable president. I'm sure it's time to respond to a talk. Senator. First, I'd like to say that the leading legal committee has been awakened and put to bed with the task of ensuring the best interests of state funds. It is the project of this committee and is very special, although it is also the task of all other committees of the council. Of course, the most important thing is for those on that specified committee, and I have the conviction that nothing else is there but the very best of that work. Then there may be a difference between members of Congress, the best use and practice. It can naturally be, and it is part of politics. But as for the National Library, I would like to say that this idea is not new. I've heard it before. I have not received a formal calculation of these matters, but I have come to understand that once men put together the cost of moving the museum and then the cost of a new home and compared with what might be given to the property, the conclusion was, at least, that it would not be favourable for the state's funds to go that way. But I'm sure it's a matter of time to be awakened. If ideas come out of a better and more practical setting that can be true to you, then, of course, I'm ready to listen to it, for this is the case, like the other. A senator gave specific instructions. It's not a duty to attack. What I have seen so far, however, is that it is not practical for the State to use such regulations, i.e. To sell this property, to transport the museum, and to buy a new home for it. But with this structure and this work as well as everyone else, of course, we need to take care of it firmly and carefully, especially with the National Library, but also with all practicality. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u318	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. Of course, I know the role of the budget board. It is difficult to keep up - to - date with the financial needs of the State. But this is still very special, for this one house, that special revenues are being carried on. Of course, if it is the only thought of a financier and her leadership that it is good for state funds to sell valuable property and valuable housing in the downtown center, there are other houses to be viewed and others to be heard even under other departments. I think it's very special that you just look at the National Archives in this way. No matter how this is reversed, it affects those who are in charge and rulers of the museum if the Allied approval allows the sale of the facility. That raises questions. But it sounds like the highest. A minister will not be impressed with the use of such a warrant. But it could be the highest. Secretary of finance take advantage of the source? Is it a financial minister to receive this warrant? Could be the top. The Minister of Education and Culture will survive both the highest level. The minister of finance and the head of the budget is going against a new release through the National Archives?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u319	A respectable president. This is primarily the case, as I understand it, the need to decide whether it would be more practical for the government to sell this property and that the value of the sale is that high and that it would provide sufficient resources for the National Archives to find a new location and place it into a new building. If such a situation existed and the National Archives could be placed in even a better home even now, it would certainly be appropriate to look at it and avoid anything but to look out for it. I give myself one of the things that brought up this discussion is that we know that there is still quite a long way in the country where all the repairs and improvements in the facility in which the National Archives is in now, that people are looking at the costs that need to be considered in this picture as well. But once again: You are to be careful with one of the key agencies of the nation, the National Library. Everything is to be done in such a state of great calmness. Of course, I think this warrant will not be new unless it meets the conditions that I have just described, that it is more practical for the state funds, provided that all the housing needs of the National Library have been met if they are to leave the facility they are now in. I think it's totally clear. I don't think there's anything to worry about. If this warrant were to be used, it would be on the basis of the moisture I have described. Otherwise it wouldn't be possible. I repeat, because of what. Once again, a member of the council made this important task a matter, and it must be the best way to do it. That is not to say that all of us always agree fully with everything. However, the responsibility that especially rests on the directors of that committee is to be looked to.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u320	Madam President. I understand the highest. Minister has a problem with this. It's like the highest. A minister of his own said, "If I get it right." Which suggests the highest. A minister had no part of the plan when the recommendation was made. Financial and economic secretary would be authorized to sell from the National Archives. I'm critical of this work. In this regard, the role of the legal committee is not of much importance. You feel that these are such random policies on the affairs of an important museum and that they do not understand its role and need for solid design. But I'll figure it out. A minister has a different opinion, and the Ministry's personnel have been working on a different policy, both the State Radio and the National Library. Thank you very much. Minister for handling my questions. However, the work remains to be followed by criticism that the National Library and State Radio, which have been established by the Ministry of Education, will be the front of the budget and change policies that have been established in the community. That is certainly an reprehensible and strange practice, to say the least.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u321	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I'd like to talk to her about the state radio and its situation, although many things have been interesting to discuss. A senator on the affairs of the National Library, in fact deserving a special discussion, I think, in general, our policy in affairs is gathering. I believe there might be a lot of talk there, e.g. how this group was divided up in the history of the current government under two Ministryes, who have also made my position even more complex and noted the difference in the status of the museums. As for State Radio, it is led to the conversion of the Kingdom News to the public community in 2007 to much opposition at that time, a government stand, and a radio fee arrangement was adopted. Not that there was, of course, always a debate over the use of fees, which was separate from an annual financial debate. In fact, as soon as the law went into effect, the radio charge was decreased, i.e. In the autumn of 2008, in that era of government, of course, there was a firm and strong argument in view of the state's status at that time. However, comments have been made on this since by public radio experts, on the other hand, how long the decline continued, they were expected to fall into the history of the government that we had. In 2013, a member of both sides was then promoted for a while and then began to lower the radio charge on the part of the current government. I want to ask you why. A senator whether she believes that this arrangement is somehow defective, the source of a government campaign for the finance of public radios.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u322	Madam President. It is possible to agree that this arrangement can be the source of a conflict over the budget to begin running public radios. At any rate, this has proved true in the discussion we now have. However, it must be our duty to make such preparations that the State Radio does not depend on stakeholders, which will be subject to the lack of future advertising. Of course, we're not there yet, but there's gotta be a dream stand, that there's no way you can say that in any way or that you can't put yourself in the position that the State Radio is under the heel of some stakeholders. It must also be so that the likes of the State Radio are under the heel of politicians. We need to find a way to keep the State Radio independent and that it can do its job. We have a lot of demands on the State Radio. We talked about the long time in the fall of 2010 when the research committee report was considered how important the media were and how we were. Senators made great demands to the State Radio and agreed here, 63 senators, that we should make the knots so that the radio could do its job. I think we need to look seriously at this. People can criticize the radio and be lectured about the criticism given by the State Radio and the support it provides to governments. It is simply a function.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u323	Madam President. Of course, if we look at the lands around us, where public radios are fired everywhere that such institutions often appear, whether in Britain, Denmark, Sweden, or Norway. These organizations are often insisted on doing so. However, there has been some agreements because these institutions are not at a commercial market and the role of these mediators has been accepted. There has also been a emphasis on achieving a transverse agreement that it is a public radio. Of course, politicians then deal with the issues involved. It's the nature of the media. She's always talking about it. It is healthy and normal. We had quite a lot of discussion here the last time we discussed a law on the State Radio where it was tried to define its role, for example, in the scattered markets, in the culture, in the language, and where I was now teaching a number of agreements that it is important to have public radios. It has a very important role, for example, in a language field where we are 320 you. a person speaking in English who sees it as his duty to produce material in the Icelandic language. How we should look for ways to make sure that we're in one of the budgets after another in a heated debate over the state of the Kingdom Radio, but I don't think that's a solution. We see here a small community where this medium can be of great importance. Now, perhaps in my second answer, I would like to say first, that there is a great deal to be resolved, and I also look to the highest. A minister, where there is some agreement on this foundation, does not need this discussion that is so destructive and corrupting for the Kingdom News.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u324	Madam President. I want to agree with it with what. A senator who knows the matter very well has been a minister of education. Hv. A senator entered the cultural role. It has a role to draw out information for the common people and to promote discussions about issues, including this role as a cultural part of the public. And it needs to be strengthened. We haven't mentioned the pension debt the State Radio is dealing with. We've talked about the business problem that will be faced in 2016 if the Kingdom News needs to cut down half a billion. We know that this will be very difficult and will bring great changes. In the future, however, there is also an unsolved problem, which is the pension debt that lies on the union and needs to be solved. I think it's important that we plan this year or the budget now, we have to keep at the least of the radio fees because it's now in 2015, and then in the future we have to plan how to solve the problem at the Kingdom Hall on Pension bonds. At any rate, we need to see to it that the radio is capable of its function and that there is not some swinging policy around it depending on who is at the front of the budget board at a time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u325	V.E.G. President. I've been watching the discussion now since lunch break was over, and I have to say that I think it's very perturbed and, in some respects, a real development. People are discussing various aspects of the subject, now the last of the Kingdom News. I'd like to agree with one more trip that many have said is a thank - you on the side of the highest. Education minister to address this discussion as requested, even though it is somewhat humorous that people here have a word with it almost as they do through a medium because they are engaged in this discussion in a complaint against other members of Parliament and are taking advantage of it. A minister of education is in the hall, and then he lives in the hope that he himself will rise up and thus participate in the discussion. It would have been more convenient for me to conclude that he had mixed himself directly with a talk because of the Supreme Court. As noted here, a minister of education has much to do with these matters. He has discussed the importance of discussing the future of Our Kingdom Hall, on what basis it should be run, the purpose of the work. I think it's very important that this discussion is taken as well as what we're discussing the budget where the funding for this institution are served. This must relate to the goals we set for ourselves. I've been a great amateur on The State Radio and its operation, at the time of the director of a Committee that discussed the future of the Kingdom News, now the year and days since, it was around 1990, at the end of the 1980's. We offered them suggestions on how the democratic umbilical cord might be connected, among other things, to this hall and then to the society in which it was kept from gaining independence, as well as to the democratic authority. There is nothing unclean about being associated with democracy, and there is no unclean thing about being associated with the General, on the contrary, it is good that this relationship all be as visible as ever. It's them when they're connected with the Generals. That was the way it used to be. Then there is no time for the Senate to become what it was called under the heel of politicians. This cannot happen at all. I also believe that there must be stricter rules about advertising on Kingdom News. For example, costs must be prevented and some restrictions can be placed on advertising. But for two reasons, I haven't been fighting state Radio advertising. First, advertising is neither bad nor good. Advertising advertising is good. An advertisement that tells you right about goods or services is friendly. She's good. But the advertisement that misleads or is not good, of course, evil. This should be the case. I have often looked with regret until the time when Ralph Nader was at his best in the United States to keep the advertisements on the right side. There has been a setback in this regard. Good advertising does not have to be a bad option. The other reason why I haven't opposed advertising is simply the underdog of our society. We're so few. The national radio is not the BBC in Britain, with tens of millions of people. We have to face the fact that if we cut down the advertising revenues, launch advertising activities like channel 2, we're saying that we either cut down our business, tear our sails, or raise our spending fees, and that's not exactly a factor for it. But we all need to take this discussion. That's when it comes to what's at the top. A minister of education kindly said about a financial committee, that it was woken up and fell asleep to keep up with the state funds. To a certain extent, it is true. Of course, everyone is trying to do their best, and a financial committee is trying to achieve those goals. But it is also possible to get too far in the money - bearing approach. You have to ask why. You have to ask about your goals. I took it as an example in the work of the General Commission and the Generals' Commission that we have received agencies into a report form from the National Reconnaissance where certain agencies are being shown to be entering the budget, into the Dose List, to hold all duties, but in the same way, they stop fulfilling the role they were intended to perform, even a legal function. Of course, it is an aspect that the budget should also be considered. That's what State Radio means. It must be looked to a legal function. These two things cannot be separated, the financial frame and the goals we set for our individual institutions. I would be very interested in going to a lengthy and detailed discussion about the State Radio, but we can't do that here, of course. I just want to remind you that this is the context of the parts and must be the context of the parts. Then, toward the end of my talk this time: I have been calculated to have to speak for at least 140 minutes. That's ten talks. I've decided to switch these talks tonight and tomorrow after the incident and take some things for. I will discuss health matters more closely, and of course, I will make that requirement the highest. I'll have a health minister present. But for the sake of work, I would like to direct it to the chairman of the Parliament's Fund Committee what is qualified for when data received from the Department of Health for New Health Centers in the capital area were written on the fact that these activities should be offered out. Since then, the emphasis has been on the treatment of a body member. This is not to be found in the majority of the branch committees. Then dolls up the top. The secretary of a radio show, I think at the Wave of the Wave, at the weekend in which he says that the understanding of people's ability to offer health care to the capital area out, at least at three stations that are to rent housing below, at least part of the year, for $70 million, is the one originally set out, an invitation, and then this road trip toward the market of health care. He supports the highest. A health minister in this regard. I'm going to ask the chairman of the General Assembly's Department of Justice what her understanding of this is. What discussion has been made in the budget on this aspect? As I say, I'm going to be the one who's going to get answers from the highest level. Prior to this discussion, a health minister. And I want to say it to the highest. President, I'm very serious when I say this: I'm not going to be offered as a senator that when we're dealing with the State budget, we're going to have the highest court. Ministers wish to appear and represent their case and explain their goals to the funds they want us to accept. I can't accept that. I won't. I'm ready to stand here all night and all day tomorrow until I get the most satisfying answers. [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. The minister of education comes here and stands for his case, and that is well, and we expect other ministers to do so when they are asked for their presence. This ain't no show here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u326	A respectable president. A lot of interesting things were happening. A member of the Parliament came into play in his case regarding the State Radio. First, I'd like to say this: I fully agreed with him on the link between the State Radio and the General Assembly. It was the very thought that was fundamental when we spoke at the Assembly Hall to make the changes in the government of the State Radio that it would be arranged for individuals outside the council, i.e. That the warrant would come from outside, or that it would come from the council. I am convinced that it is normal with such an institution that there is a direct link in this chamber to the representatives who will then have to stand before the people of the country and understand their actions, opinions, and policy. I think it's the right way to approach this. Of course, all views need to be taken into consideration. A senator described his speech so well, but this is important. I was glad to hear that. As for the advertisements, I feel that way, and there I disagree. A senator that if the government has decided to impose legal obligations on an institution that it is supposed to meet and participate in and participate in the media market, and it is established as to what the state would want this agency to do in the law, then it must naturally be funding the institution to live under that law, but it is not intended to pursue competition with other media. That's when we come to the context. We like to have as the most diverse of the media. The Kingdom media has a unique position because of the laws and requirements that we have for the media and that are intended for it. [[The president calls.]] That's why he gets a radio fee. He should also leave as much room for the other media as possible so that we can enjoy as the most diverse of the media. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u327	V.E.G. President. I think we agree on the objective of the democratic connections. I tend to agree to some sort of link between the Hall of Congress and the council and perhaps with other members as well and to encourage those in all modesty to consider the suggestions that were available at the end of the 1980's on this point. I'll do my job to dig them up. Since then, other practical suggestions have been offered. I am encouraging, not some Orthodox person in this regard, but an open discussion in which we are doing it. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, stressed in her case earlier, that we try to find an open, cross - political way of handling the matter. I think we're a lot of people who want the same thing when this comes along. Regarding the advertisements and that if the government decides to operate a particular activity, it would have to be the source of the cost. We must not forget who we are. We must look to the circumstances. I don't think it's right to be so princely in mind that it's either. But I agree with what. A senator that we gain in view of reality, i.e. Other media also need funding to run, to look to some fairness in these matters, that is correct. Also, the advertisements must not kill the state radio. Here again, there may be some way in which one might go. I'm not going to go away from the fact that the State Radio needs big advertising income if we're not going to do the rest, to raise the budget, or to tear the sails. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u328	A respectable president. This is precisely because of the small size and size of the Icelandic market that we need to be alert to ensure that other media have a potential range of growth and have a potential, all kinds of media, large and small. I think there's a lot of it. A senator said that in the case of specific Icelandic circumstances, it is quite possible to engage in media media media and, of course, technological change. Even in large markets there is reason to be careful that the government media can earn advertising and even prevent this from interfering with competitiveness. Of course, if it's the viewpoint of the large media markets, it's more important to us today. I think we should discuss it here, when it comes to talking about the future of the Kingdom radio, how we can best manage that the State Radio is leaving a commercial market, leaving more territory and more room for the independent media to earn income and secure more media resources. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u329	V.E.G. President. Again we come to the humbleness of our society. In my mind, therefore, there are limits to what we can afford with regard to diversity in all things. We've got all this college here. Has it really helped to improve the quality of study? I'm not sure about that, not in all ways. I think this applies to the media too. We can expand the media into the infinite without improving the quality. And if a man be given the head to set up a multicenter, let him claim to some legal business, I doubt it. I'm not saying the media in Iceland has improved with increasing diversity. I don't think so. I think if we compare ourselves with what was here before, she's in many ways. [[The president calls.]] We need to appreciate it too, the importance of the diversity that I would like to ensure too, but it can be at the expense of the quality. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u330	A respectable president. I want to say the first thing. paritaprevir Ögmundur the son of Jónasson, who said that there may be a way to argue that with the increase in the media and perhaps less capital, the media in Iceland had a certain level of decline. To say that, I am one of those who want to protect the Kingdom broadcast and look very closely to the quality of what comes from that subject, the role it plays in cultivating, cultural, and, especially, role in the country. But there are two things I would like to ask. A senator on the one hand, with regard to the marketd income or a so - called nose tax. Now I've heard here in our discussion that many government opposers believe that the income that comes from the radio charge is to go straight to RUS. We also took this discussion repeatedly during our last term. Then, like now, the income wasn't all in RUS. Then there was a debate within the panel that none of the so - called marketd revenues should flow to that institution because it would be very unfair that some institutions would get fat as a bag on a piece of fish while others would have to take a major cut. This was the discussion during the last term for the greater portion of the year. Now it sounds like there's another sound in the cylinder and I'm asking why. A senator's view of these matters. Then there's a point that may have more at home in my second question, that's about the Ohf.- Now the Ministry of Education was in the hands of the left green last term. I've been thinking it's Ohf. is the wrong way. [[The president calls.]] Why was that not changed when the last government was in power? Then we wouldn't be discussing these pension bonds, which are like bruises on The State Radio.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u331	V.E.G. President. As a matter of fact, I think the pension bonds were there, whether we had an ohf. behind a RUSB or it won't. In general, institutions are a factor in the cost of pension commitment. This is true of all government agencies. You're right. A senator says, and I agree with him that it would be more convenient to eliminate the Ohf arrangement. I don't think that's a good thing. The stock form is a reference to a point number, a partner in which many shareholders are involved. That's the thought behind the benefits of the shareholder arrangement, but when the shareholder is one, the stock under one man who's a sole minister, we're not using this form. It's kind of a bastard in this regard. Hv. A senator may well remind us of the importance of having had a second elected period in order to carry out our wishes and policies. Then I have no doubt that such a change would have been made. In fact, I ask myself, " Is it not a general desire to do so at the council? ' I've understood that at the highest. Secretary of education that he has doubts about this arrangement. That's how I understood it. I'm asking if we could join each other on a reimbursement in this regard. Regarding my nose tax, I was always skeptical about him. The subscription rate back then was highly critical. The people believed that this would never work out for the future. However, I remained in that arrangement, as BBC did, and others because they feared that what happened would happen would happen, that it would be reduced, and taken to other uses. [[The president calls.]] As we know, it happened during the last term. It was justified by humans in view of the crisis. I'll continue with my next answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u332	A respectable president. I certainly hope that the senator did not understand it, so I thought that something had changed within this series of lawsuits, although the last government had received a second term because they really had enough time. It might have been a song in the cutoffs in so many areas to change the exact arrangement. I'm convinced that if we're going to take off the Ohf, the official partner form, and make the Agency a state agency would be much easier to deal with pension bonds because they become part of another government debt. It's hard to deal with this part-mate that I think was a mistake at the time. I would like to discuss here another official community like Istavia. There you are streaming into such a gigant income that you have hardly seen anything like it. It's a public society that uses it only in building up. [[The president calls.]] They could have been used in building up in so many areas, especially by health care.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u333	V.E.G. President. I agree completely with what. In this regard, when referring to Istavia, a senator referred to. Even those who are in favor of markets and personal development should have accepted an invitation and a way out of the operation within the shell called Istavia, which is a business for operating at the Icelandic airports. We should have gone that way, so it was wrong. Hv. A senator refers to a mistake that was made and that we had time to do this and that. We made many mistakes, did many things that we would have liked to have been done. However, we are to look to the future in a meaningful discussion and see where we agree. What matters is the main reason. I'm describing that within my company, the attitude is that the State Radio should be national television and that this management plan should be reconsidered. [[The president calls.]] We're supposed to be together to change this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u334	A respectable president. Now I know what to do. A senator is an amateur for the Hospital and wants to fight for him. The change in the share's memory accounts for an additional $2.1 billion, especially where the Landspians seem to be a total sum of money, as it were. According to a medical hearing and the nursing staff of the Land Hospital, the OECD countries spend an average of 0.5% of their GDP in their healthcare system. In contrast, the equivalent of $1 billion in Iceland is about 40 billion, but based on Scandinavian countries, that is about 40 billion. At the same time, according to this report of OECD, the Icelandic government has been building on only 0.1% of GDP for investment in health care centres. Now I know that according to the survey Pirates have made over the past few years, there seems to be a clear priority among Icelanders that they want to spend their tax money on the health system. They want good health care, hospitals, family doctors to whom we can turn for help. How do these different priorities differ? I think the American citizen wants a Scandinavian welfare system that just isn't available here anymore. Why is that?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u335	V.E.G. President. I think it's just one reason. The system's changes are under attack without any open transparency. You're absolutely right. A senator said that according to standard measures, it is evident that in all political groups, there is an overwhelming willingness to expel the health system from the public, that we finance the system in a manner that is independent of the management practices, but also in terms of the management form, that is the majority will of all classes for the public's roads. A lot of wills by category, but that's how they are. I find the numbers interesting. A senator points out. I haven't been lying over them lately, and I don't trust myself to get into an accurate discussion about them, but the other I know, because I studied in my time, that OECD measurements in the '90s showed their opinion of each dollar, the money that goes into the health system would be better spent here than anywhere else. That's what I'm worried about, maybe in the light of the numbers as bad as it is. A senator points to the fact that this may be changing. We focus on Land Hospital as the flagship. We may even go too far at the expense of health care. The fact is, if health care is neglected to direct patients who should be there at an inexpensive level in an expensive setting. It has been observed many times that as the health care providers reduce the patient's care, the more waiting will be extended to the hospital emergency department. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u336	A respectable president. It is not only health care that seems financial but also lacks funds that are maintained at the Land Hospital. Reports in the media have now been made about the leaking of homes in which patients are being cared for. Also, mold has developed. It has been customary for doctors to have their offices in some container. I'm asking, is this a normal situation? It's not new yet. This is something that we should have maintained rather than come into the condition we are in right now. I'd like to ask you what. A senator knows if this is true elsewhere in the North countries. When it comes to putting our arms around this group, do we not make a small difference?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u337	V.E.G. President. I suspect there is not a full harmony between reality and national will; nor is there a full harmony between the reality and the understanding of the World Council. We don't want it like this. None of us want it like this. Then we need to ask: What has gone wrong? This is not something that has been going on in a very short time. This is a long - term development that we must face and try to channel. There is no doubt about it. We are to look to what unites us in this discussion and to the majority will of society. If we did that and then we had all the changes open, there would be a transparent, democratic debate, we wouldn't be heading into the course that I'm afraid we're doing right now. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u338	Madam President. I wanted to take advantage of the opportunity I have to give a second talk on budgets primarily because of two issues that have been especially discussed here tonight. The first is the Kingdom talk that had started yesterday during my first talk and in reply. I came to the conclusion that this was a concern to me earlier. I'm a great supporter for public radio. I think public radio is very important. I mentioned earlier that it was important for cultural reasons. I don't think that's for 320 you. a nation of people having as fruitful a culture as we do with Icelanders. This does not default for 320 you. Human beings to have a special language. In the days in which we now live, when we hear warnings about the position of the language, which I feel is a cause for concern. People should listen, and we should be very aware of what to do when it comes to making the Icelandic language possible in the computerized world. In this context, I want to remind you of the change in the size of the item which accounts for a substantial amount of money to be done on this project, but more part is expected in its changing proposals. V.E.G. In a day of Icelandic language, a minister introduced his appeal to a workforce that would benefit from the success of Icelandic currency in the computer world. I think it's very important that governments come forward in a very specific way and show that there's a very serious way to make Icelandic currency. 30 million donations are not enough to do so. This project has been evaluated for between 1.5 billion and ten years of age. We suggest that 170 million more go into it so that it can be installed at least 200 million a year. Those who have become familiar with the technology world believe that the opportunity is now tailoring the language to the technology that is developing so rapidly. However, the evidence does not hold water that technology is developing so fast that we should wait. We also see a number of danger signs in younger generations that live far more in a technologically advanced world than we do at the council. They know all who associate with children how immensely different their lives are from what we experienced as children when it comes to technology. However, certain factors, such as the cultural institutions of this country, are involved. I'd like to count State Radio with them cultural institutions because it has a major role in the production of domestic materials. Not only does the language survive by making dentations and making them available in digital form so that everyone may bend the words of a cow and a father or whatever words it is that people in general find it difficult to function, language is not just about that. Life in languages is about our continuing to tell stories, stories in our own language. The stories we relate in the past are not just stories written in books; they are about what we watch. I know I'm a representative of ancient times when I'm informing you here that I'm looking at a linear program. I'm told it's a retreat, but it's been shown in my informal poll with members of Congress that the proportion of senators who watch a linear program is unusually high, I don't know what it says about what it says. Senators. Above all, it is the production of domestic material, whether you watch it at a certain time or are reaching out for modern technology. That's the stories people want to hear. This is evident from the national television programs that have been produced and are so important to our society. There the Kingdom Radio plays a very important role. On the other hand, when it comes to doing what we can call a democracies, the Kingdom Radio plays a very important role, i.e. To meet the demand of the public to be illuminating a media involved, reports and handle information, e.g. around elections, votes and stuff like that. I'd like to review it here during the last term, because of that. Congress officials have referred to this, there was much discussion about the role of the State Radio, when circumstances were different from the times we had previously met in the election to the Council of Government, for example, where there were a great demand for Kingdom News to introduce all candidates. I don't remember any better than that. Parliaments sitting in that prime season have agreed that it is very important to take care of a public radio or public service agency or what we call it. This has been a significant subject for discussion. I can sense that here are very conflicting opinions, from the time you think there should not be a public radio to have the public radio exactly the way it is now and all that is involved. However, it has generally been more important during the council to want to have public radios. People have had differing opinions. It is important for me to know that it develops into rhythms of changing time into media and changing time in society. During the last term, an attempt was made to evaluate the experience of the famous ohf. structure. The "Of" bill was approved here in great opposition to the existing government opposition. It was probably spring of 2007, if I remember correctly. At that time, I was not at the council. It is remarkable that shortly thereafter the so - called superintendent took the lead. Minister of the Þorgerður of Gunnarsdóttir Gunrsdóttir for a bill submitted in the fall of 2008. That bill was upstairs, but it was about limiting the role of the State Radio in a commercial market. It was clear to everyone who participated in the discussion that opinions were very divided completely across the administrative parts and in a smaller portion at the time. It is not new, therefore, that we debate the State Radio, its financing, and its role in a commercial market. As I mentioned in my first speech, then, in the fall of 2008, the then government decided because of the conditions that existed back then in the state of the world, natural at a rate of 200 billion. leaning on the state funds, removing the market of the radio fee, reasoning that there was a measure of emergency in the nation's economy. That market was very busy here during the last term, and all market income was discussed. So I held on to countless speeches and accept my opinion that a public service medium must have explained a reserved income base, whether we call it a disposal fee or a radio fee or what it is. In any of the places where public radios have been tried for funding, it has not been a very effective means of making peace with the public radio, e.g. In Finland, however, they reassigned from that arrangement and stopped, so to speak, the budget per year was virtually all about the state radio there. This was a constant conflict in which politicians had strong opinions on the public radio, which is not necessarily supposed to be associated with financiers. Of course, politicians should have an opinion on the public radio, but these opinions should not be directly associated with financial management. There, I think I'll be talking to people who are public radios in Europe as well as in the United States where I had the privilege of meeting with the head of the PBS who was here at a great conference this summer. She said, "Don't lose your public radio, because if it's well played, it's also the standard for a powerful media market. Immediately after these laws were changed in 2007, changes were presented in the fall of 2008. I started a team to review the experience on this matter, especially the business plans that were discussed earlier. The council of Algmund, the son of Jónasson, and Hödli, the son of Þórhallsson. I personally opposed the change to hf. I also have to admit that when the committee was then being conducted, it was certainly made comments because the Kingdom News operates in a competitive market. Comments were made on the basis of EFTA monitoring program that the Kingdom Hall was a public agency. It was pointed out in the discussion that public radios elsewhere in Europe were generally either public societies, such as Sweden and Norway, or self-employed institutions, such as Denmark and Britain. I've got my opinion on that. I was against the ohf substitution, and I didn't think she was good-looking, thinking that the ohf thing about ohf. I am responsible for many shortcomings in Iceland, but I have no choice but to agree with these arguments. I could not ignore what was in these matters. Therefore, it was my conclusion not to suggest a change in business plans, also because the law on self-employment in this country is not good enough. Maybe it would be a worthwhile project, and I'd say I'm the best. A minister who sits here hoping that he will respond, that he will make parapolitic consultations about these things, and that he will deal well with them. If there were any such changes, I think we'd need to look at the general structure of public society. I'll be the first person to admit that I always felt responsible. The government radio had a Senate government, the establishment of a minister of education was through a service contract, and the stock in the company was with the secretary of finance. As a result, the debate over who should be responsible for the National Radio was often legally complex. I know exactly who was responsible for the political responsibility, and I realized it all the time while serving the minister of education that it was me. Thus, in the case of the highest, we still look at the matter. The current minister, that the political responsibility lies there. This does not change the legal nature of the arrangement. We should take advantage of this opportunity here if we wish to do so, and I hope there is a majority wish at the Allied Congress of Iceland to have a public radio, to try to make an agreement about this medium, and also to look to the events mentioned above. Madam President. I think it's very bad that we're here to discuss the state's financial status. It has been observed in the highest range. A minister who has been cut into the state radio business, has been sold as part of the State Radio property, and changes are being made in business. I have declared support for those actions. I have declared support for the future vision brought on by government directors of the Kingdom News. It doesn't change that we're here forever in an argument, now about the funding that looks like the radio charge should be reduced, that the second stage of a reduction approved here in December 2013 is due to the current administrative sector. I would have liked to see the bill as the highest. A minister of education announced that this second stage would not be accomplished here. I would have wanted this discussion to follow a cross-spectual discussion of a future view so that even next year, we'll sit here and not argue about the government funding. That would be a wish. Like what? Senators could hear me talking about this for a very long time. I would like to spend the last few minutes discussing the big case that I feel is in this financial debate, which is the ideal pensioner. Finally, I would like to say that there are large numbers that we in the smaller part suggest to improve the quality of these groups, the pensioner, the microchip, and the elderly. It's true what the Directorates say, these groups are developing a percentage increase, a significant percentage increase. This does not make it difficult for them, many of them, to be counted unsatisfying. I'm primarily talking about those who are dependent on this part of the improvement system to form microbubbles who have not been in a workforce and who live alone. It has been published by the Microcollar Community on the implementation of these groups, which now make up less than 200 thousand, 187 of you. K. gets an invalid, which lives alone, and is paid for household satisfaction. We all know that's not enough. These people live in the same community that we live in, and we know exactly what we need to survive. Governments have created a fine calculator for us, which shows the cost of living in this community. The Department of Micronition has calculated that it takes 348,537k. in provision income for one person who lives alone. There is no need to forget the extensions that have been discussed here and why. Congress officials receive many letters about this subject. I have received letters and phone calls from people who are in the position of not getting money from a pension fund. Especially are women in the position of not having the right to pay from a pension fund. Preservations are even less expensive than a dollar. Their position in order to improve their situation is difficult. I've been listening to it for a while. Senators report. They have expressed their will to make improvements. It would be a wish, Madam President, for us to see at the top of any of these programs here, although I had the impression that the suggestions we would make for these groups to go up to 300 yous. K. consistent with what happens at the labour market. I've heard what. The members of both administrations state that they want to see an ideal pensioner go to that amount. I'd like to see a plan on that. That's what matters. This is significant because it tells of our community how we live in the most vulnerable groups. No one will choose to become an invalid. Moreover, they do not choose to grow old, although all of us do. Living with less energy for the rest of your life is not a pleasant experience and is not able to do anything about it. I am, of course, included that our systems provide these groups with the support and motivation that we can give them to become active members of society. We who know that this is what all people want, who want to be active in the community. They want to be active, but they cannot necessarily work full - time. These impulses must be positive. We need to make sure these people survive. During this discussion, much has been discussed. I don't want to compare the situation that exists today, for the collective efforts of many sides, politics, and others, in which we look forward to a better economic and financial situation, to the situation here in 2008 and 2009. I don't think that comparison is going to work out, Madam President. We should now look to the future, how we can prepare these groups for a decent standing. We do this by making sure that they can survive their own goods. We know exactly what it takes to survive. It's the government itself that has calculated for us. That's why it's my main wish here that we'll also have some agreement to improve the terms of these groups more than is done in the bill and look to the cost of many dollars and money to survive in the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u339	A respectable president. I think me and what. A senator will agree on the importance of the national radio on cultural matters, especially when it comes to offering material directed to children and is intended to stimulate their language development. I have sometimes recalled the conversations of society at its time, about the so - called Canal TV, and the anxieties we had in our community with regard to the impact on the language. If that is compared with the situation we are living in, I think that there is good reason for us to take seriously the challenges we face. A respectable president. I'd like to direct one question to the question. Senator: We'll talk here about the State Radio. Well, maybe. A senator would not agree with me that it would be better if we also had a conversation about the media market in a larger context? We'll talk to the State Radio so isolated about things, and I think we'll miss the important discussion, i.e. how we make the best of our diversity with the State Radio and the rest of the media in the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u340	Madam President. Yes, I think it's necessary. The government radio is not an isolated phenomenon, but it may have a twofold role that I mentioned earlier; we may view it as a media medium and as a cultural institution. We will always need to take the subject on The Kingdom Radio and the media market from the role that we give it as a cultural institution in the law and in the rules of State Radio. Of course, the Kingdom News is not isolated in the community. The U.S. radio contest with other media, such as advertising income, is part of the problem that was only discussed earlier. In fact, I have felt that in the best world of all worlds, it would also be the role of the government to strengthen other media, as we do know in other countries where the government strengthens the media, the regional media, has strengthened literature fund, which is merely given in competitive terms. It would be a very acceptable option if there were room available.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u341	A respectable president. The very point is that there are two differences in the nature of the State Radio, such as noise, to support the media. A member of the United States described or intends to fulfill his law by fighting against other media media media media outlets for income. That's why I think it would be better for us to try to lay the groundwork for further policy in general about the media market. I agree with this bisexual disorder. A senator plays a cultural role and, on the other hand, the media role. It should be noted, of course, that there is an enormous increase in the media, whether people feel good or bad, that it is just an individual's evaluation. Senator. The obvious fact is that they have increased and are increasing. Technology changes make it easier to start with the media than before. I believe that we should look forward to the future cultural role of the Kingdom broadcast, especially in producing Icelandic material, including those for children, but also in general, to keep our cultural culture and innovations in the cultural arena.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u342	Madam President. Yes, the media is increasing, but not quite the same media as the media. I sometimes feel that people talk like every person's Facebook page as if there's a multicenter, of course not, it's the person's medium, it doesn't have to meet any democratic duties, or take care of the diversity or diversity. I think it's important to discuss the media market and how it has developed and what the government can do to make it grow. I would like to remind you that when a law was passed on the media during the last term, it was after the work of a committee with representatives of all classes who came to a common conclusion and gave them suggestions to me, which was then the highest office. Minister. So I reiterate the encouragement I brought here to the highest level. A minister to the best way to make peace with these matters is that the work being done in dealing with such issues is well agreed, not just between classes, but between other parties, but important to be carried out in a transnational agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u343	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, for fair language and fair language about what has been done in the affairs of pensioners. It's kind of the first speech from a government opponent that I think is so fairly honest. [[Foreground: You haven't listened to the others.]] Yes, I've listened to a lot of them. But I didn't mean to spend much time on that point. I'm just going to talk about the State Radio because I think we're a little stuck in old habits: this is our agency. We're forming a loyal organization, and it's gotta be something like this. But our goal is, and I think most people would agree to promote domestic culture on television and radio. Do we need to do so in the present way? Is it not likely that our support for the production of such things is enhanced by the media? [[The president calls.]] I'm a little bit on the same level as Minister of Education. But do we always need to be in this form? Would that not even allow us to increase our money for the production of domestic cultures?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u344	Madam President. I think it needs to go together. If we want to promote domestic culture, I feel that there is a need to go through a movie fund and a TV fund, we have an excellent religious structure, or an organization for the mobilization of such factors. But I don't think we can avoid an institution, and I quote to the sound that I think is nowhere on the decline if, for example, we look at the role of Channel 1 and her cultural role, for example. Channel 2 has also played a very important cultural role, although at times I feel that it ignores the conversation, which is primarily about Icelandic music and has done so much good for it. And then I think that when it comes to the other part of our discussion here, which is this democratic and multimedia role, we can't help having an institution. But this has to go together, i.e. for the production of domestic cultures. I've been speaking about their growth as part of the Kingdom Television job.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u345	V.E.G. President. I've never really understood why we need this somehow different when it comes to culture, when it comes to radio or television, but, for example, movies or something else. I think it's just an inheritance of an old thought. I think it's right that we go over it and talk it over again with these goals in mind, i.e. to promote foreign culture; how we do it best and how we make the best use of the money, not that the government has to do it itself. Of course, it can be private. There's a lot of stations that would be happy to accept this if they weren't competing with the State Radio, I'm not talking about their ability to obtain the material funded by taxpayers. So I think they can be discussed without any advice about wanting to destroy this institution, which has somehow become sacred in the minds of many. She's not self-employed in the present picture. The goal is not to hold an institution for individual employees.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u346	Madam President. Of course, private workers have done a very important work to produce domestic cultures. We can mention Station 2, which has done absolutely good things in that subject, and we can name the film fund, which is, of course, the public money divided by certain guidelines. But, hey. However, a senator did not intervene in the democratic role that is just as important. The democratic role will not be met by the dynamic, competitive, or competitive, attitudes that sway up and down. [[Up front.]] I think your democratic role is important, and it'd be a good idea if we could get a discussion on that subject. I don't think we should underestimate the importance of it for us at council and for the whole community to have the controversy of a democratic debate held by the common people. We don't own the State Radio, the staff don't own the State Radio, the public owns it. The public can make enormous demands that the State Radio carry out its democratic role. It can't be done by throwing the agency away and making all of this a sponsor, so I now honestly say it as my opinion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u347	A respectable president. I asked why. paritaprevir About Jónasson before, why wouldn't he have been attacked on the last term to be a free-of-the-peaver TV? He explained that it simply would not have had time to do so. I listened to a talk. A senator earlier, who liked that talk a lot, but I thought that shot a little wrong at once. A senator said that she had fought against the reality of this, but then he had to accept the decision of the ESA or some recommendation from there. But that is a recommendation, i.e. The comments were available when the State Radio was hf-free at the time. I want to ask you why. In view of all of this, a senator: During the last term, would it not have been possible to do much more to get RUS into a better state? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u348	Madam President. It is true that there was some recommendation from ESA when this matter was discussed at the council. Actually, I wasn't in that discussion, but there were a number of other things that were criticized in that law, as it were. For example, in the case of administrative laws and in what respect it should not be valid for ohf, a senator no doubt runs less. and things in the way the law was implemented. That's why I gave a bill on the State TV that was then adopted here at the council, trying to define much better the role of the State Radio, how it should precisely fall into the Ohf. Form, and took a group of dogs. The senator was very active in this discussion. That was a good and positive discussion, for I thought that we were moving forward in making a firm resolve to accept the role of the Kingdom News. Hv. A senator asks: " Could it not have been done so much better? ' Surely you can do better than that. However, I believe that a very important step has been taken by the 2013 Law in trying to better define the role of the State Radio as a subject. At that time, members of the council had complained quite well about the lack of law. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u349	A respectable president. There's something else I'd like to ask you. A senator as soon as I thank you for the answers to the previous question. It is about the so - called market income. It was decided in 2008 that the nose tax or radio bill would not fully run to the company. Hv. In her speech, a senator, if I recall correctly, said that she had actually opposed it, although she had repeatedly accepted it when each year's budget was approved. It's about discipline. The discussion in the last term that none of these marketed incomes would develop because some would get fat while others had to suffer in need, changed discipline. It was about an equality between institutions, that all this income came into the state funds so that we might obtain the so - called equation and discipline of state funds that we needed so necessary to achieve. I'm asking why. A member of Congress: Although she wants the entire nasal tax to flow to the State Radio, can she not agree that the first thing she needs is to obtain discipline and balance in a government fund in order to be able to look ahead? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u350	Madam President. Hv. The senators of the Convention voted on the 2013 State Radio on which it was accepted that these income should be marketd, at least those members of the Offense Party that were at the vote, I'm not going to speak for it. A senator. It stated that this income should be available. As I did very well in my speech, there were very strong reasons for taking the threshold, the highest. In 2007, the local minister of education, the Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, suggested that there be a law-enforcement limitation of the law, from a time of emergency in the Icelandic economy. On the other hand, it was clear to me that as soon as the balance in terms of financial matters was determined, there were no perplexing reasons why I did not have this limitation in mind for the reasons that I covered thoroughly in my speech. There is a certain view of the public service services that may not be relevant to all government institutions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u351	Madam President. Thank you. A very good speech for a senator. She discussed the debate about the importance of being motivated and supportive of people in work. Microenergy pensioners are ill, and they have very limited job strength, and that is why they have disability improvements. We also know that according to research, the more powerful means of welfare we have, the greater our willingness to work. That's the way it is now. I think the incentives must come through the system that is built around the needs of the sick, but not that they are inclined toward the system. I ask: Is it not reasonable for the incentives to make the work market take into account the microenergy pensioner and we to legalize the system so that it stopped being a kroner against a dollar's impairment? [[The president calls.]] Would that be an incentive for us to talk about rather than for people to be hard - pressed?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u352	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for giving me a chance to explain my case, because that's exactly what I'm talking about here. I'm talking about what we can call positive motivation or support. I brought up here an example of a decline in the performance rate that so many have pointed out to us, okay? Councilmen are required to be fixed, because this impairment completely reduces people's motivation to obtain some additional project and to work a little bit to improve their income and maintain function. However, it is my opinion that we can do much better, and I went over it in my speech yesterday, there didn't have time to do it now, to be more supportive to people with our system, that the system serves people, but not vice versa. I mentioned, for example, yesterday the fact that students in the higher schools of this country need much more psychological support because there is a psychological cause behind the fall. This is the most common cause of disfellowshipping, which in turn can result in more calamity for people later in life. For example, if there was that support inside the school, there would no doubt be a reduction in the withdrawal, and this would have a positive effect on the existence of these individuals. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u353	Madam President. Yes, I couldn't agree with this about our school psychological services. But then come to the job market. The state is a large employer, and it can be said to be the highest. The minister of finance, who is very interested in motivation, has the master's authority on behalf of the state as a professional. For example, consider the case of mental - health issues that are now at the highest level. A health minister on a welfare committee who is considering the importance of the state's giving people mental - health opportunities to work, offering suitable employment, not to the highest level. For example, the secretary of finance is making it possible for government institutions to have flexible work and to provide for those with some means of employment? [[The president calls.]] There is a problem for people, to get part - time work, a flexible part - time job, that suits their illness. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u354	Madam President. I couldn't agree more. paritaprevir Ingibjörg, live Ingadóttir. We know a fine example of how private workers have done very well in giving people the opportunity to do such work. This is not common, but you know many good examples of this, and, of course, public should take the lead in these matters. A policy decision could be made here at the council. That would certainly be a real motivation. I think that's exactly what we have to think about here at a council when we talk that they're not based on negative grounds, that they are not about limiting the possibility of survival, but that is exactly what it means to encourage that the sound comes through there in a positive way. It has a global positive effect. I think it's sometimes the problem that we catch people all too late in the system. It's important that we try to take it earlier. That's what I think has a very positive influence nationally. It's about human health and prevention and stuff like that. [[The president calls.]] On this we should look, rather than negative limitations, as I choose to call conditions and such.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u355	A respectable president. We're discussing the 2016 budget at 2nd. I discussed the budget of 1st. I'd like to add a little bit. In fact, I have believed that before being taken to 2nd. You should have finished the basics of a financial and business committee, which is the basis for the budget. I've always found it a peculiar order to discuss budget at 2nd. without any basis for any financial or commercial legal legislation that has been introduced through the changes that may be involved. As a result, I have often felt that the emphasis on this discussion is unique without seeing the overall presidents on which the budget is based. In that room, there is at least a change made by tax change in agreement with the labour market agreements due to agreements this year. When it was clear that emphasis should be placed on the lowest wage and that most of the people can agree on being correct, people would find it hard to look at the intermediate group that would then go uphill and risk it, if we could say so, the main objective of trying to increase the lowest salary that has been the goal of the labor movement and the professional drivers since they remember. In order to reach an agreement, among other things, with the Reykjavík Trade Association, the government arranged for a change in tax step, the middle stage, to reduce it by the year 2016, and then fully by 2017, and was one of the premiums of collective agreements. At the same time, the employment community did not agree to discuss the reductions in insurance. The two things hung together on the woodpelling of collective agreements. Now, as it becomes clear, in fact, all collective agreements are concealed and the fear of delinquency and possible smiles are the basis for the collective labour market, which is expected to need a revision of the 1st of February, the reduction of insurance costs. I, however, feel that whatever the case, this is an insurance bill too high and that should be lowered. However, there were mutual agreements between the employment union and the labor movement and the government. In my mind, it is also important to make money and for everyone, not only for individuals but also for the company and the state itself, that there is a constant tax environment, so that those who have to negotiate for financial gain, those who want to do business, sense that the tax environment is not fluctuating from year to year, or every four years as often as it would like to be replaced by governments and the main focus of politics. Once in politics, most of us differ from others in ways that lead to goals, even though we may be in some way. In most cases, we agree on our goals, which are making a good society better. In my opinion it is also missing in this discussion of the budget that customs and goods have been dropped by most groups of products, although individual groups still seem to hang somewhere inside, it is. It must, at least not only be important to the people of the country but also to the store because they have complained about customs and goods, and they have thought that the trade had moved abroad, among other things. These are all factors that make a difference in the overall context when discussing the budget and its terms. We had budgets during the past few years when the change in the value tax took place and two steps were made instead of three. We moved 7% to 11%, the lower level went up, and the top level went down. [[Up front.]] That was how it was done, and as a result, the cost of extra tax was increased in various foods, but it was also found that most of the groceries carried tolls, so it was not toll. However, it is obvious that the increase in the value of food was observed for everyone, probably worst for those with the lowest salary, but hopefully tolls and merchandise have paid for it ever since. What matters also in the discussion of the budget of this year and of the last year, and the budget of all years is aimed at, as has been done here, to introduce and extend unscrupulous financial laws. This is absolutely essential if there is a possibility of improving in some areas that there can be a reduced debt and a reduction in debt, which we know will mean less interest on the state, which will likely require more activities. These are basic factors in what we should discuss together with the emphasis that each of us can place on that bill, which is provided by changes of things and more, how they come back to life. I'm going to make a confession here that I would've wanted to see two things in these laws that don't happen. I would've liked to see a loss of government business, that's just the way it is. But in these laws it is not done. I believe that the booth is already too big and it's not a big deal, should it not be, to reduce it. I believe that there are many things in government that other people can do in the public market and that the state is far from the best person to run all creations between heaven and earth. I also believe that we have failed to make the government more efficient or to increase production. I think this is also a fundamental factor in the general development of increasing activity and the achieving of economic and government success so that we can then render good and powerful service in line with the expectations of those to be enjoyed. It has been over and over over in the budget that public shopping and tenders could be better met and many companies have failed to fulfill their obligation to go on the way in which they have been introduced. That is one factor that can be viewed considerably. Then, too, it is what has to do with the high Council. Whether we like it or not, we often place laws that add to the burden of rural society, business, and individuals without the fact that we say at the same time what the burdens are, in general, hidden. It has to be said that institutions of surveillance, many of which, for some reason, have grown enormously out of existence. What a business company in the country has to pay for, in various ways, the billions of dollars each year. But who is following the supervision of this surveillance facility? Who's the patrol? [[Up front.]] I don't think there is. I am the opinion, and it should not surprise anyone, that in this so-called surveillance industry, which I would like to call, there was therefore some contribution to the Association of Business Affairs, in accordance with the laws and rules that have come from here. There must be some consideration to this aspect because it can't be, I don't believe, that it is someone's goal to build a state - driven surveillance industry, which no one will ever follow up on. On page 18. 6 The Committee's Committee of Funds explains how various monitoring institutions have been expanded. It may not be surprising, in itself, that between 2007 and 2016, the SEC went into disaster and the proportion is 203%. The financial watch has grown by 200%, despite the drop in financial resources and has gathered in that area, so you wonder if money could be better handled. It is the market of income that goes to the F.A., but with a new government bill, it will be over. Then it is budgetary to assign the resources to all the institutions of the surveillance listed here. I'm going to be happy that this is because I think that making the money they are today is a child of their time, and it's clear that some institutions that have become market income have grown. At least it's my food, and then they can disagree. It is also on page 18. 6 referred to by the press committee, to monitor the media. It has grown considerably, but has the media market grown? Are there more newspapers today than ever? Is there a lot more radio and television media than they were? I don't think so. Is media control more effective and the possession of the media and the like than before? I don't know, but the media board has at least grown too much in my opinion. Actually, I didn't like the Bureau from the beginning, but there's another arm. A respectable president. We're in 2nd. ... abundant. A financial committee will receive the budget bill after 1. Around, it is sent out for reviews, people know it, and then a financial committee welcomes guests, and there is talk, and eventually a product from a financial committee. This product is published in three or four committee views and in more or less forms of change. 2nd. has stood for a long time and has undergone changes in the focus and development of the sector, and it is only natural to do so. But I feel that the discussion reflects the fact that the smaller part is trying, and in one way or another, I plan to make adjustments in the direction of the changes in the rest of the section and that is actually the discussion. I wondered if it should be simply a vote for the change proposals of the smaller section and then a change in the motion of the greater part, and this would be the way the council's proposal would be shown to the available, rather than to the members of the Parliament in the greater part and smaller parts, as to whether the smaller section will be able to enforce the changes in the greater part's proposals. This is in my mind the very essence of the discussion. We've done a lot of talking, and we've come to an understanding, as I said at the outset, we've come to an understanding of the emphasis and adjustment proposals available in the greater part and then the smaller parts. The discussion has focused on the need for more money, especially the Land Hospital and the need to be discussed by the director of the Land Hospital to 3 billion people so that the hospital can be a placard. I have been at a council since 2007. I guess the Land Hospital has always been missing funds because I never remember a discussion about the budget being different, so at the beginning of September, there was a media debate, mostly in the media, and in literature as radio and television, that there was no money in the Land Hospital. It's still so. However, it is heard much less, at least in the media, and in the discussion of a Kingdom Hall, the Hospital in Akureyri, and other institutions. I have to tell you, I'm wondering if the overemphasis in all the medical talk that goes to the Land Hospital is the right one. We are talking about the worldwide budget of 52 billion during the 2016 fiscal year, of which it is spoken of as requiring an additional 2◯3 billion for hospital treatment. I have to admit that I think it's a peculiar discussion because these 3 billion compared to the other 52 are a small part of the total amount, but of course it's a lot of money. I want to become aware that I would be wise to ask myself, " Could I, in general, look at health care from more angles than merely focusing on the Land Hospital as such, be able to move certain tasks of the Land Hospital to other hospitals in the vicinity, as in fact, to do so more fully than to do so, and whether we could reduce the stress of the Land Hospital by doing so? ' how to make room for long - term elderly ones living in it because they cannot get anywhere else. It takes some 15 million years of the budget to have an adult sick person in the Land Hospital who could feed well, if we can put it that way, in a nursing home that is considerably less expensive. We may need to approach this discussion in this way. Everyone agrees that the National Hospital should be able to become a high - tech hospital that provides them with services in large and difficult factors that other hospitals cannot provide, but they must be able to see to it that some procedures can be brought out of the Land Hospital and then to other factors. The land hospital is the work of a health minister as well as here on the budget, and since there has been a requirement for a raise in the Land Hospital, this may well be thought of in cooperation with the Supreme Court. A health minister who must be able to look to that in the overall health picture in Iceland and is best qualified to do so. We have not talked much about school, but at least some 310 million are being introduced to the university. We must be happy that, like all other institutions, we can say that most of them could make more money for themselves. I'd like to mention that in the modifications of the majority of the segments, money is being added to a fiber optic project by the post and communications agency. I think it is very important that this project be kept firmly and that you want to make a subject of the distribution system that RUS bought for 4 billion and that it seems to put that organization to rest. The system is not what is called an interactive distribution system, and it has been found to be unofficial and useful to little or nothing. The 4 billion in that land would have gone far beyond our country's lightline. And when they say that the government of the agency that makes such an old deal should not be responsible for such a deal, I'm all finished. I don't believe that I'm going to raise or let the radio charge run down to RUSH because I feel that the State Radio owes us a debt to this contract made and see if there's one way or another that we can tell about it. I know that in 2011 a comment was made on making this contract, which was made in 2013. Then we stand here and talk like the responsibility of those who have been directing the Kingdom News through the years there is no one. But their responsibility for this contract is theirs and none of them. There is also increased funding for transportation, ports, and airports. I have to agree with that. paritaprevir The Katrín Jakobsdóttir daughter she discussed, reminded me yesterday rather than today, that it had been better for us to have a transportation program that we imagined how we were going to work into the future. Still, the funds that come in there can be welcomed. Men have described it here, and especially now. paritaprevir If Jónasson's son is concerned because of possible changes to new clinics, which may be set up in the capital area, his business will be taken from the State to private hands, even if the money comes from the state. Like what? A senator himself has said, and all of us know that all classes agree that the medical system is to be financed by taxes, but not all of us agree whether there are others who can render them service and serve such services as the State itself. I will not abandon this speech to myself, but I will address the language that has been discussed by many people who are social security and elderly and desperate. That's the way it is according to the 69th grade. the social security legislation that social security benefits should change annually, taking into account pay development under law, and never increasing less than the price of the consumer prices. The way older people are treated, the way older ones are treated, and the way they are treated, has been a great deal of concern. I'm not going to have many words about what others think. On the other hand, I would like to point out that when this government took over right away in the summer of 2013, the rule was that pension fund was devoid of a basic pension. It was done. Valuable markets for professional sensibilities and disability were raised to 1.3 million, and pension income was also raised. The cut-off rate of income insurance was reduced from 45% to 38.35% on January 1, 2014. This has been done already. What is planned for this year's budget is that percentage increases during 2016 will be 9.7%. On January 1 of this year, older citizens and disability increased by 3%. There was no pay-elevated rise, so at the time of January 1, 2016, this is in my mind: 9.7 + 3 = 12.7%. Well, that's the way it is, isn't it? Then between January 1, 2015, and January 1, 2016, the rate of disability and older citizens has increased by 12.7%.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u356	They won't get back.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u357	They call it a what. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson: they can't get back. No, and I'm gonna answer it. A senator what I find in that regard. I don't think so, nor will there be any more pitfalls, that the terms of the pensioner and the desperate should not be in the same laws as the bargains on the free market. On the other hand, the General Assembly under the Social Security Act is required to ensure a decent salary for these groups. The lowest salary has been discussed, and the 9.7% increase on January 1, 2016, means that a single person, in fact, with chores, receives less than 247 you. K. Hv. paritaprevir Oddný G. Harðardóttir said today that the members of the Flea Community and any other social group, VR, have some 270 points. K. the minimum wage. [[Downloaded at: VR.]] To talk about 277 you're doing. K. and 240 you. K. Certainly there are 25 pulses. K. Between which no doubt it is of great importance to many. But I do not believe in it, and I do not believe that even if I'm against it, and trust that someday it will be so that the elderly and the desperate will be the means for them to live a decent life - and that when they reach my retirement age next year, they don't even have to talk about them in the same word, because most of them are desperate at all in places other than older citizens and people who have come to my age and younger will not interfere with my pension. But he's not tall, I think he's 36 of you. K. Men will then be challenged, and I will challenge the body of Congress, who is in charge of the so-called St. Peter Berlandal Commission, and the members of the Committee, to complete a review of the social security system. Move it to the welfare minister, who then has legalized it to look at the group that has come to the work that is all stakeholders, sees a place in the new social security laws in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u358	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I have to admit that I don't agree with her about everything, maybe pretty little. [[Up front.]] Hv. In the first part of his talk, a senator said that it was normal for him to have us votes immediately and not discuss these matters anymore, to put up a test of democratic will. Then she refuted the authority of that doctrine, thought I, by arguing on how we might make adjustments. She mentioned that she felt, in fact, largely referring to the proposals of the government position, that land hospitals are overreached when looking to the health system. I think it's very good and helpful for us to talk about this. We are discussing a contribution to the welfare and financial matters in general, and the Parliament has the legal authority. I think the discussion that's been going on here tonight has been perplexing. We are discussing things and trying to understand things and what the government is all about. For example, I mention it as a dog. A senator also objected to what led to the administration of invitations at the clinic here in the capital area. I have reasoned here at the Senate Hall and in articles that I believe that there will never be a market there, not between clinics as such. However, a competitive inducer can be activated within the system. It's a different arm. I've wanted the highest. A minister of health would come to this discussion so that we could discuss these matters and understand what man is doing so that the fund knows what it is doing. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Parliament: What does it mean when she says that government is all too great in Iceland and refers there to the booth? [[The president calls.]] Which booth exactly is she talking about?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u359	A respectable president. I'll just say it here and now what? Senator: May we reduce the number of foreign services? May we reduce the number of embassies? Could the number of employees in councils who have been transferred to rural areas still be reduced? Or would you consider some of the recruitments, computer services, and other forms of service, a service that could be performed in a town? To me, there is no business that can't be viewed. And in many places, I feel that since I know, it would have been easy for me to not advertise vacancies when one position opens. I don't think it's possible. With all due respect to all those who have served as principals, mayors, Deans, Ministers, and then it doesn't matter to me which category we are; I think most of them have little or nothing to do about cutting down the system frame of action. The schoolmasters and principals may be more relevant to teaching subjects and such things, so it may not be quite comparable, but I don't think most ministers have made any business, and they still increase the number of helpers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u360	V.E.G. President. I'd like to consider one point before I get to that answer. Senator. That's what the state radio means. She believes that there has been an overemphasic decision regarding the distribution system, it has been too expensive, etc. I have not examined that matter in the light of experience, but that was a decision made in a government at the time. But, hey. In view of the decision that the senator seems to have been wrong, a senator would want the work to be taken care of now and people to resign. I just want to say one thing. I don't think it's such a half-hearted thing to say: May the embassy be reduced, might you do this and the other one in question? I'm just saying, "What does it feel like?" A senator on travel Control? Would it be finished? Or was it the right arrangement at the time? [[The president calls.]] Does the senator believe that something should be offered in the Generals' wall? Instead of speaking in a half way, let us say exactly what we mean. [[The president calls.]] Don't be such a pimp.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u361	A respectable president. I'm sorry for the last sentence. paritaprevir Ögmundur of Jónasson's son. There's been no pimps here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u362	Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u363	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u364	Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u365	V.E.G. President. There's been no gaps here. The one that's never been here. [[...on his job in the plot.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u366	It's pimps.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u367	A respectable president. In view of this recommendation, Ögmundur? Jónasson I'm not gonna answer him.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u368	This is a pathetic situation. Diving about people and afraid to stand up for what they stand for.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u369	[[The president calls.]] I'm just... I can't...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u370	President wants to ask why. Senators guarding their word.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u371	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the talk that I thought was morally and honest, and he made clear the distinction between the politics I hold and then the politics I'm taking into consideration why we're not in the same category. But, hey. A senator did so, that I felt, in a very honest and objective way. Hv. A senator spoke of interest in the elderly and disability and said that since the election increased by 3% on January 1, 2015, it was so throughout 2015 that it increased by 9.7%, it can be regarded as 12.7% and then 9.7% out of 2016. I'd like to ask them what. A senator would think that the lowest pay that goes up by 10.9% on May 1 and that goes on for the whole year, and then goes back 5.9% on May 1, 2016, has increased by 16.8% and if we are not to compare these numbers together. There's a big difference. This results in a high standard of living for the elderly and the poor who have no other income. 25 ys. K. The difference now is 1 0 percent, and people with a low pay difference. I want to ask you why. A senator whether she believes that what is now being done is in the spirit of social security laws and if what was done in 2011, collective agreements then were not more spiritized?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u372	A respectable president. I can totally agree with that. A senator says that the percentage of pay in the general market, but I said that from January 1, 2015, to January 1, 2016, when 9.7% had come, the pay would have increased by 12.7%. I'm totally aware of that, yeah. paritaprevir Oddný G. Harðardóttir, 3 percent over 2015, which lasts at 69 C.E. Act on social security how to handle this. It doesn't have social security laws that should be reimbursed, nor does it stand in the law, in 69. saying, 'This should follow the minimum.' I have a paper from Iceland's Micro-Information Association to the Government, written on November 22, 2011, which says that the improvement in social security is not in accordance with collective agreements. Because of what? A senator refers to the agreement in 2011, stating in a letter that the improvement in social security is not consistent with the collective agreements and quotes from the 69th gr. The law. This shows that the target increase of 3.5% is much lower than the 69th chapter. Social security laws say so. This is what the Microcreatarian Convention says about the agreements made in 2011. I'm just going to make their comments to me as to whether the 2011 contracts and what desperate people made of them are better or worse than what happens now in 2016.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u373	Madam President. In fact, in 2011 the improvements under law increased by more than 8% and increased from June 1. There were both percentage increases and increases according to minimum salary. Social security laws are designed to protect the ideal elderly and the poor and to make sure that they can live a decent, decent life. They are not for keeping the poorest group in the country, but this will happen now if this works out as high as possible. The government wants and they do what they want. The members of the council that support it will be far below the minimum wage in the country. By 2014, he was 1.6%, the highest, above the minimum. Now, of course, I'm talking about people who don't have income elsewhere, because that's the group we're talking about here. [[The president calls.]] I want to ask you why. A senator again whether he feels that it should be done better than the law says if the sense of justice and fairness and social standard calls for it? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u374	A respectable president. The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u375	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I'd like to ask her first of her comments about surveillance agencies. She quoted from page 2. 6 of the Committee's list. It contains a table showing different budgets from 20071⁄2016, and I expect it to be in the prices of each year, so it is very difficult to see exactly what the increase is, although it is obviously some and considerable in some of the institutions, although I do not think at all because it is naturally not stated on the merit of a particular year. So this is a very difficult tablet and, in fact, misleading. Hv. A senator said that it might be normal for part of this to cross over to the National Association of Employment and who should monitor the Rapporteur. Thus, these public health monitoring agencies are under government law, there are charges for citizens and companies and they need to take control of administrative procedures. So there is a very clear box. This activity will not be covered by the Association of the Employment Organization. Similarly, it is equalized from foreignly comparable institutions. So I wanted to wonder, here are the largest institutions, for example. The F.O., Human Rights Agency, Food Agency, Drug Administration, Contestation, Work and Fish Room. These organisations are monitoring all the companies or companies on the market and any part of their activities. Is it normal, according to the senator's opinion, to let the prolife itself be self - controlled? [[The president calls.]] And who will monitor them?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u376	A respectable president. Yes, I believe there are surveillance agencies at the National Association of Professionals and of the rest of the surveys within them. However, I am quite aware that the administration laws as they are concerned with these institutions, but I believe that they can. I'd like to put it to the test because I think it's an honorary president and why. A senator, this surveillance industry is blowing out here, and I don't think it's creepy how it blows out. If there is any other way to prevent this exhaust, if we can put it that way, I would love to see it and how it was good, so I could direct my question back to the back. Senator. See what? There's nothing wrong with the fact that these surveillance agencies actually blow out like this in a very short time?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u377	Mr. President. I'm not gonna comment on that, because this tablet is completely unusable to me because I'm not the real thing. These are name sizes over a ten-year period of extreme inflation. The one that's raised most is a media board. It has increased in ten years by 31 million in name. I suppose it's--yes, it's an extreme, but it's a small amount of money. The one that's grown the second most is the F.O.S. I'm very grateful for the powerful financial watch. I don't think it's scary that it's going to blow out, even if all institutions are to be efficient and careful of the budgets of all institutions, they're also the surveillance agencies. While I was much more disturbing when I was kept small, financial systems were allowed to blow up in such a way that it was 10 times the GDP that then exploded over all of us. [[The president calls.]] If you don't mind, I'd rather ask for a little bigger feds.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u378	A respectable president. In my first talk on an existing budget bill, I reviewed the basics, as it were, that I thought the budget reflected. That was primarily the point that I believe to separate between the government now in power and the one before. I believe that I traced it quite in that speech so that it doesn't have to be repeated here any of the key factors I saw to this extent that were reflected in the bill. Mischange, inconformable, lack of vision for the future, or long-term policy development of very important issues, societalally important issues, such as welfare. However, in this talk, a dignified president, I would like to focus on community and transportation or on what we can call life in the country that I now want to reflect on the financial bill. In fact, during the past few years and decades in many parts of the country, the laws of nature that I have struggled with in many recent talks at the council before. It's the result of decisions and actions. It's the work of men. Many of the settlements now in trouble could turn the right action back on the offensive and resist if they received only the right tools. During the last assembly, members of the United States proposed a synonym that I think would be appropriate to draw attention to the discussion of emergency operations in rural areas, since we thought and still believe that the situation of various communities is serious that it requires immediate support for professional development, education, welfare services, and infrastructure. At the same time, we strongly feel that the defensive population is able to save itself, that they are allowed to thrive on their own terms, and that they actually thrive, as if the infrastructure that sustains their communities are trust enough, since the inhabitants of these areas do not care for patches on their areas. These settlements just need tools in their hands to save themselves and enjoy their resources, their land quality and human resources, so that they can build a more sustainable habitat and employment situation. On the contrary, the financial bill does not offer solutions to that subject. We see here a cut-off on the budget for the parish plans. We know that there is no transport plan, and what is suggested in the budget is random actions that clearly indicate that there is a lack of vision for the future. The worst enemies of the population are rural areas, low education levels, and increasing average age, difficult transportation, a less isolated work environment. However, this structure has a improved hope and could be fully saved if they enjoyed the infrastructure necessary for the development of employment and housing. Then I'm primarily talking about good transportation, safe electricity, and solid communication, such as telephone and Internet access. In this context, I would like to draw attention to the indications that the Quantum Association has sent to a budgetary committee showing that a greater proportion of budgetary committees are being proposed by the Court's Committee on Environment. A bill to budget 2016 reflects the state of the government's legal long-term strategy, such as its transport plan, national parish, rural, communication plan, and others. The relationship points out, as it says here, so I'll have the permission of a president to quote the words of this letter: In the case of transport and telecommunications programmes, it is not possible to re-evaluate the estimates, such as by the General Assembly, or that financial initiatives do not reflect national government objective, such as national parish and regional planning. Then, with the permission of the president, the Summit of the Western Union, says: To cope with the most urgent solution, the budget is to be reassigned, which will be discussed each year in financial deliberation. Thus, employment will be unscheduled, planning decision-making problems, and timing of action will work randomly, although most of the action's objectives are positive in most cases. The forwarding plans for the development of the West have also given the fourth relationship much emphasis to the development and effectiveness of the project and to the timing and uncertainty of its progress. I think it is appropriate to draw attention to this theme of the Western Union, which is the rural community in an area that has long been defined as an area of protection and has been defined in this field, so that solidarity has been said to have a priority to reverse the negative development it has had in recent decades, especially after the cooling system was established in the late 1900's. Unfortunately, the situation, as I said, has been higher in word than on table, and as the Foursome correctly points out, the lack of the long - term strategy set in paper on both parish plans and community planning. One of the most clear examples we have in this regard is the location of which we live, i.e. The indifference of the government on transport and electronics, especially for this particular quarter. As I did this morning's publicity, we recently saw in the media an interview with the governor of Landsnet, which led to the breaking of 30 Mothers of the Landsnets in a storm that did not go through the country long ago. The damage hit the West, leading to the loss of electricity and is actually run into the system now by other diesel engines and by backup generators where repairs are not completed. This week, the vice president of the Landsnet was given a reason to call attention to what the company has actually pointed to for many years, i.e. the importance of strengthening the transport system. He pointed out that Landsnet's suggestion to put lines through the Earth's tunnel then and when it becomes reality, and when it comes, as we shall now hope to be, that we will be providing the end of that waiting, it will be a revolution in the electronic affairs of the Western world because the lines have been placed in the ground and defend them from the weather that has set the lines on the deserts and mountain roads so far. But as I also did this morning's publicity, it must draw attention and concern to the fact that the animal tunnel plans are not to be realized until first of all, in 2017. This is particularly thought - provoking, since all have agreed on the importance of this transport for this particular area. This tunnel that was to be the first tunnel under the first tunnel program set up at the Council has been available for more than five years. Of course, you ask yourself, when there is so much at stake, and so clearly the benefits of engaging in this project for what are you waiting to do when you see that there are two flies at one time and that you can solve the marvelous, well - founded problems and the much better conditions for your living, working life, and innovation, and, indeed, all who rely on energy transport. There will be a revolution in farm conditions in the area when these tunnels become reality, and in reality, they have not happened before, and that governments, now that many words are given attention to the well - being of this government in front of the settlements of the country, do not see the benefits of acting, rather said hystery on this matter. Not to be reminded, at least not the Westerners, that in an investment plan of a previous government outposted when new diplomats assumed that this project would be completed in the next year and would now have become a better reality. You see, it was a great harm to the settlements of the country when the investment plan of the Government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir was pushed off of the present government because it was pushing off the board the strength of the infrastructure and the promotion of the development of the strategy. Of course, it was particularly tragic that the transport efforts of that strategy should go courtyards, for good transport is a basis for normal economic development in the country. Of course, walking is like a blood vessel, and it is a reliable communication and electrical exchange. An unscrupulous Internet relationship is central to the structure of employment and electronic administration that, of course, responds to a call of time, and this is on the factors that people's equality depend on public services and access to recreation, culture, and education, not to mention employment and employment activities. The lack of safe transport and safe communication are protected. I mention, for example. For many years, it has been the annual topic of conversation during the council. [[Up front.]] The Giss has been built, exposed, but built up as a possibility and has been taking advantage of, for example, the construction of tourism and coastal fishing projects in summers that have resulted in life in coastal areas in the Strand County. This is an example of a community that could survive if the tools were available, and I don't talk about if the transportation, which, of course, has become a disgrace to the fact that it has not already been adequate. If these three main supplies, transportation, electrical power, and communication are strong in each part of the country, they are a guarantee of housing conditions. It must appear to be a self - righteous thing in the second decade of the 21st century, anywhere in the country that is having this main infrastructure, especially where there is an increased integration of services and the aim of united administrative institutions and community unions. I'd also like to mention the cost of house warming and transport, which is another burdensome factor causing considerable discrimination between land areas. The cost of heating in cold areas is much higher than that of warmer areas of the country that enjoy heating. I'm sure it's equality to equalize this difference, and it's time to step on a number more than ever to do so. Yet, by the last council, a steep resolution of 215 million was adopted. K. up to this joint on the basis of a new release bill on the payment of house - to - house heating costs, which expected to be fully paid for those who are not able to pay full heating. Still, the budget bill still needs 153 billion. K. As assessed by the Power Institute for Electricity and 62 billion. K. telecommunications, i.e. $215 million. K. which is missing. They're 65 billion short. K. to equal costs due to the distribution of electrical energy. Therefore, it is not being fulfilled with the promises made by the council and with the policy it puts itself on a new legal bill. That's not really acceptable. When it is clear that certain areas are in the background, it is a spontaneous and natural requirement for informed politicians that they correct them of error because we are in this society. We have this wealth of government together, and the parts of the country are to sit on the same table as the opportunity for building up and developing. The government needs to recognize in the affairs of the community that time is precious to those built in trouble and protection. It is urgent to equalize the opportunities for employment and services, balance the standard of living, and contribute to sustainable development throughout the country. It is urgent to increase funding for national parishion plans rather than cut them down. It is also important that rural society is able to enjoy increasing tourism in many parts of the country and that measures will be made to make it possible, and that they have the option to build recognizable tourist areas in their own markets and share with tourism to make their territory a considered alternative for tourists. It is not good to rely on emergency supplies to build tourist attractions. It is a perfect lack of a vision of the future. Over the years, travel is increasing, and growth has even become too intense for certain areas of life during which others could most readily accept what is going on. So it is desirable in all respects. More important, the requirement that budgets be guaranteed to improve access to education and to ensure the safety of patients and the quality of mental health and general health care worldwide is required. There is no need to have many comments on the importance of having the basic health and educational services available in the home. In view of this, it is of course very difficult to see how the budget is being used to keep adults away from the high school system, which may have been a lack of hope, especially after the hard years, because people had the potential to pursue home education and establish themselves at a job market. I see my time is running out, more dignified President. As a result, I have to shorten my case, but I restate on the fact that it is the government's responsibility at any given time to make sure that the fruit that is reaped is equally and wisely distributed to the public in the country. [[The president calls.]] I don't think this financial bill has that mark.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u379	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for a fine speech. It went along with various aspects of government and community communication, the importance of carrying out a structured operation, that we had a transport program to support, and that the senator criticized, correctly I suppose, that there was not enough money to be spent on roads. But I would like to ask. A member of the Parliament, who has been deeply concerned with welfare matters at the General Assembly, how it explains the distance between government and government to provide enough money for health care and especially for the Land Hospital, whose guardians feel that there is a lack of 3 billion for him to live up to the responsibilities that we have placed on that institution. I've wanted to say so, and as far as the same procedure within the medical facility, that this service, this basic service, is being forced into a private farm. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agreed with me on that subject? Or how does the senator explain that the government and the administrative body are incompetent to meet our demands for reforms that will clearly, i.e. if they fail to succeed, lead to confidentiality and impairment of the services of the flagship of the Icelandic health system?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u380	A respectable president. Thanks for the inquiry. We're stuck with a government that doesn't care about important foundations in our society. It lacks long - term policy and vision of future events, such as in the affairs of the welfare system. They lack compassion, or what might be called compassion. The government doesn't have the welfare system. Therefore, the welfare system, such as an orphaned child, is covering the nakedness, as is the case with land hospitals and faminers who keep it alive. But it's not that big of a deal. This does not work out as if it had to be done under normal circumstances. Sadly, I have felt that the welfare system was deliberately being broken down in order to justify personalization. [[Up front.]] I can give you a few examples. [[Up front.]] Just the waiting lists. Now people are pushing off the waiting lists into private service. A man who the other day needed to renew his driver's license and need a new lens that he will not receive until months later. He was lying on his driver's license, so he went to a private room, paid what it was, 200 to400 you. K., I don't know how much this operation will cost in the private room. Got the lens and driver's license. This is what's happening.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u381	V.E.G. President. I agree with what. Senator. I think this is exactly what's happening. I have taken an example in the discussion here and in magazine papers on funding flows through such canals. And that's where I mean Domus Medical, the imaging. The way the patients, or people who had to go for a shoot, were sent there rather than to the Land Hospital, who could not have had another demand for an incision. Then the people are sent to Domus Medical with the money on the basis of a patient's financial support, and in the end, Domus Medical has a far better tool than the land hospital. I'm not saying this to talk down Domus Medical. Not at all. There is a fine service and fine staff there. But I am speaking down the governments that set such priorities. I fear exactly, like a whale. A senator agrees that this is exactly happening. The public service, general institutions, is screwed up or confined to, but is joined by private institutions. We've heard it and heard it here at the discussion - and I'll admit that I had a bit of a mood here, and maybe a bit too, but it's just a reason, when we're talking about the booth, the big booth, that I need to reduce it in discussions about these institutions, about the education system, and about the health system even if it's referred to the embassy, etc. This is the context of the discussion that the largest organization, and the expected greatest of all, is the Landsaholic and the Health Organization. And we're working on it here whether enough money is paid or not. I'm glad to hear it. A senator and I will agree on this, and it will not surprise me in view of the history of this insistence. A senator with welfare services.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u382	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir As you say, the count of Ögmundur the son of Jónasson spoke to me with warm words. But this is precisely true, and we see this clearly in the budget bill, including the fact that in negotiations with the Land Hospital, the National Hospital will not be given the added strain of population growth. But that is exactly what is measured in the agreements with expert physicians, experts, and private services. So what is accepted and the private service is considered not valid when the contract is made with the state's national hospital. There is a coded breakdown in the system that is tolerated by the ideologies of the market. This is a serious thing. We must also realize that health care in Iceland today is not a free service at all. People are paying tens and even hundreds of thousands for health care. I met a man in Denmark the other day who told me that his wife had been diagnosed with cancer a few years ago. They have been through a long and long - standing medical career in Denmark. They don't think of moving home because they've never had to pick up the package, never having to pay one dollar on the dance welfare system. A patient in a similar position in Iceland would have paid dozens if not hundreds of thousands for similar treatment. The most painful thing I haven't discussed is the ideologies that the patient should be determined by a number of patients, not by whether or not they should be treated with life-saving drugs in our medical care. And then I think it's getting pretty far.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u383	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a nice speech. I'd like to come into the matter only of decision taken by the highest order. Education Minister on not allowing 25 years of age and older students to study books in high school or to reduce the number of students in high school. Already the consequences of that decision have been discovered, and this decision has actually been made by the Council. The number of students in high school has decreased by 742 since the decision was made. The school directors are deeply concerned about this and also about people in general in the country, where quality of life is being reduced and their ability to pursue education in its home after 25 years and, for example, into further studies in teaching or nursing. Experience has shown that it has been very valuable to the country that people can continue to educate themselves in their homeland and continue living there, even though they have formed a family rather than have to uproot with their resources and not even return to their homes. These students are now being referred to in personal study, in private school, and inciting the evacuation of the area. The colleges get weaker, and they do not even have the opportunity to carry out enough educational opportunities in the advanced school and at work, and so do the like, since all of this supports one another. I just want to hear a little attitude. That's for a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u384	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator is very much interested in the inquiry because it's because it's important to me that it's very serious. 742 people, it's like a village or a settlement in the country, and now these people, this group, have been able to access the high school system, access to the access to what these people had, and could use the equipment, housing, and training options of high school in their community. It is very difficult for many high school in the country where what they have to offer is not fully satisfied because these students are gone. There is no new wisdom that education is the best cure for a crisis. They realized that when they were working out of their recession. They finance education. The huge business of Nokia, known to the world, was a product of that community policy. Here, too, the strategy after the collapse was taken to support people in the workforce, to pursue education, and to increase their skills so as to have greater opportunities for employment markets after the economic breakdown that this would result in. Now that it has been turned on by adults 25 years of age and older, women on the country are the worst hit. It's a national matter. They are expelled from the high school system in expensive resources, referred to the learning and learning process of adult life, which is a good price, but cost money and is just another plan. In that sense, this also promotes discrimination, which is a bad thing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u385	Mr. President. Thank you. A fine review of this anti - Biblical matter was made, and the consequences are coming to light. We need to be able to bring it back and take it back as soon as possible. I'd like to come in somewhere else. It's about energy balance in the country. In this discussion, members of the EEA's Continental Department, in particular the head of Congress of the Agency, have deemed the country's total cost of energy in cold areas to be equal. We know that a decision has been made, the steps have been taken in this direction. It began during the last term and has been continued through subsidies on house - to - house heating. Still, much money is needed to fulfill it fully. At the General Assembly, the costs of distribution of electrical energy within the diffuse range were agreed. But the big industry escaped from equal distribution of electricity. There was only the network itself, so there was still no money in it, some 65 million. every year, so that this distribution can be resolved and there is also a total of 215 million. K. In subsidies on house warming and could be more, but that is at least that amount. I'd like to hear it. Senator on this. Now I know that she well knows the cost of house warming at the West, and I was getting an accounting for the year of my house in the South. It takes electricity and heat to some 400 yards. K., which, of course, is enormously high and far from reaching one of the international equations for house - to - house expenses and electricity costs.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u386	A respectable president. Now, the senator and I can go to the top game because I'm going to top her electrical bill for my house on Isafjörður.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u387	It's a bigger house.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u388	Granted, it's bigger, yes. But you're absolutely right. I'm just here to refer to the page. 330 on the budget bill, where the Power Institute explains what is missing in order to meet the policies adopted by the Parliament last year. That's about 215 million. K. Apart from 65 million. K. to equal costs due to the distribution of electrical energy. However, the Union has suggested that the equation will be applied to all users of electricity, including industry and other major users, as VG has been the same. [[VG and the Conspiracy...]] [[Same...]] Of course, it is a matter of speech, of equal importance. As we've said, what? A senator and I, both in articles and in talks: We are one nation in one country, and this is an equal language. While Icelanders feel that they are one nation, they are expected to enjoy their resources together. While such a desire is to be placed on the southern corner of the country or the north, it is to be appreciated by all Icelanders, taking into account that we can live under the same conditions, since all need to fill their basic needs for food, clothing, shelter, and warm homes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u389	V.E.G. President. The debate here and tonight on the budget bill has been good in many ways, I think. She has swinged around, gone down and down, has almost scraped her bottom and also become quite high. It's not good when it scraps the bottom, when people get too big about other senators. I'm not divorced myself, and I'm sorry. Especially for my own sake, but also for all of us, it is very important that the discussion of budgets and, in fact, any subject at the General Assembly is objective. We are making crucial decisions, and it is important that we contribute to an informed and objective discussion of all aspects of the budget, whether it is the budget we have or not. The law, on the other hand, can be very crucial. It is important for the health - care system whether it receives sufficient funds to care for the services we all want, and to expect that this may be the time for the land hospital to meet its legal obligations, that it may have another increase in demand. It has been demonstrated by the representatives of the Land Hospital that the demand for his service is 1.7% per year because of the population's growth and aging. This corresponds to the fact that to achieve this increase, 930 million people would have to walk alone each year. This doesn't make the financial bill no, and it's not surprising that when it comes to the state of state, it will be hot when it comes to being referred to globally and talking about Iceland's booth being too big. Then, of course, people expect, and I do, to know exactly what it is. Similarly, at the highest level, it is unacceptable. A health minister does not attend and participate in the discussion as he does at the highest level. A minister of education responded to the council's call to do. What happens when the minister comes to the discussion and participates in it? It's going to change the look. All the discussions that were conducted here tonight about The Kingdom Radio were perturbing, meaningful, and rewarding. I think the cause is the highest. Secretary of education has grown stronger. We were strengthened by the belief that the suggestions we make are good and would have liked more of the majority of the council members to be with the conference talk, to listen and to face the fact that if the bill goes through unchanged, the same will happen on the Government Radio as at the Land Hospital, which will lead to cooperation. This will lead to resolutions from The Kingdom News and the development of business in the absence of a change in contribution to the Kingdom News. It's just a fact, and we're facing it in a few days, not a few weeks. This is the reality that all of us must face. When a senator arrives and says that because of a contract was made at the time that was more expensive than expected in the public system, the staff of the Kingdom News and its activities should be bitten. I don't feel comfortable setting things up that way. One thing I would like to mention in the discussion of scarcity and the elderly, something that may not be involved in the budget as such but that of a long - term financial decision. As we know now, there is a ruling authority for certain groups in society, councilmen, generals, judges, and presidents. The priests too are under it. Then the unions negotiate the labour market pay in collective agreements, but we have a decision to cover the social security benefits. Because we have made a decision in microchip and pensional patients, we have rightly referred to ourselves as a dresser against microorganisms and the elderly. I would like to review, almost for fun or for information and maybe for recycling, that in 1995 I proposed a matter of Congress, a proposal to put down the Kjara Court and the jurist Committee. I wanted this to be set up into another arrangement that would be assigned to the Parliament's Committee, but the council would make a final decision for all those who heard this committee, including the minister and members of the council. In other words, we made our own decisions. What is the basis for this? It is that we all have to be responsible for such decisions. When unions sign agreements, they are elected on both the job side and on the part of the remuneration. The contracts can be canceled. They can be elected by democratic elections within the labor movement that are not considered to be in that material. On the other hand, the Qualifications Committee and the Kjara are uncontaminated. No one can touch these parties, and I think it's normal that these burdens are placed on us. I think it would be informative when on Thursday we would vote on the salary of the generals and on Friday for the benefits of micro- and older ones. Then the responsibility was heard where she's supposed to be, with us, with the legislature, and with the financier. We can be held accountable. We cannot accept responsibility under such an arrangement. I wanted to say that perhaps we are in the wrong direction regarding such decisions. In a report that I made with this council resolution in 1995, shortly after I entered the council, I referred to the overall organization of public employees who had described opposition to the 1992 arrangement and was briefly revised in 1995. I also noted that in the North countries, the National Parliament had a more decisive approach to the remuneration of other people than those who were dependent on trade unions in contracts between them and professional drivers. I think this might help us to reach a more sound conclusion and to improve our view of ourselves, as well as to the clients we are now under our custody, i.e. The wealthiest people in Iceland, who are of a series of poorer and elderly people.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u390	A respectable president. Thank you. A candidate for his fine speech and agrees with what he said. I just want to talk about health care because it matters that there is good access to health care and that everyone can consult a doctor regardless of the economy. There have been repeated claims on the part of the government that no more money was placed on health issues, and this is certainly true, for each year the centenarian is rising. I'm looking into my own profile of committees, and I'd suggest that if people take expenses for health care as a share of GDP, we've often done better. In 2003, for example, the ratio was much higher than today. It's just one measure, of course, a lot of them. Hv. For a time, a senator was a health minister and is familiar with these matters. When talking about the Land Hospital and saying that there was never more money in it, there is no way to see whether the operation has increased or the proportion of workers changed so that there have been more nurses at the expense of some less paid. I find it hard to make this comparison unless you're comparing the right things. Perhaps the land hospital has taken on assignments that were carried by some other institutions and so on. I think that's a simple way to get away with this. I'm not a person to calculate this, but I find it interesting to look at this as a percentage of national product because I think it says something. I just wanted to roll it up here and ask why. A senator, a former health minister, feels that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-15-55.u391	V.E.G. President. I also think this is the standard and standard of OECD support, to watch the proportion of GDP. You're right about what you're doing. A senator can be deceived and misled by percentages, and therefore by figures of credit. We have referred to this discussion that because of the growth in the population and the increase in aging, those who turn to the Land Hospital or depend on its services, more and more are elderly, which means that the percentage of those who usually go to health care is increasing, being more than 1.7% in need of service each year, just to the Land Hospital. If we look at it, it is obvious that we are spending much less money on health care now than in 2005 and again in 2000 and 1990 because we are more populous and in other circumstances. Verg of land production and proportion of it, I think it's the right thing to do. I have seen a different scale, such as a percentage of the nation's taxpayers devoted to health care or especially to the Hospital. The rate has declined substantially, but another proportion has increased, not in this government's history, but in the long-term development over 20 to30 years, that the proportion of money that goes out of our pockets in patient expenditures has increased and has become a fifth of the funding of the health system. These are the numbers we must look to. That caught my attention. Ólína In Denmark, when health care is consulted with serious medical problems, we were reminded of Þorvarðardóttir unlocked Þorphondóttir. [[The president calls.]]
