ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u1	Borist has received a letter from the chairman of the Independence Party to the 7th. Smoke. So, Guðlaugur Þórðarson can't attend in the near future. Today, then, at the Second General Assembly, a deputy of the Independence Party lists the district of Áslaug María Friðriksdóttir. The letter of Áslaug María Friðriksdóttir has already been investigated and agreed, but she has not taken her place before at the General Assembly, so the commitment to the Constitution is to be signed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u2	Ásundía Friðriksdóttir has signed her pledge to the Constitution and is hereby invited to serve at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u3	Borist has written a letter from the Department of Professional Road and Development that asks for every appointment to give a written answer to a letter on the question of robotics. 704, about whaling and the value of whale meat, from Katrín the daughter of Jakobsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u4	A respectable president. We have been reminded of the weather in these last days and weeks that we live in a hard - and - growing land where many things are cut off when transportation is blocked. We will also see the importance of having other transportation and communication devices such as communication, telephones, and Internet connections. This came to know the government ministers not long ago. And when rivers like that, we also find that transportation and communication tools are vital in our society, without which there is no job life, no business, no freight transport, or service between parts of the country. Now that the land is rising from the economic crisis, more than ever there is a need to build up and maintain such infrastructure as transport, electrical security, and good communication. It is part of the righting of the landlands that are fixed, allowing them to be participants in the economic restoration and to thrive on their own terms. They need money, they tell those in charge, but they're wrong. The seaside road sweeps up profits without bringing what was worth to the community. While there is real concern about the future of the medical system, while living in the land is being maintained on hunger markets and the future of communities, the government does not want to take the normal fishing fees from it, and he is reluctant to use the income sources that flow through the town barn. Billions of dollars in the form of fishing costs are the income that the government has turned down in consideration to the provision and placed in place at the level of an investment plan of the previous government on infrastructure, such as extensive transport improvements, especially in vulnerable territories. [[The president calls.]] Sadly, though, the lack of courage and justice is not to use this source of income and realize that there is more to it than the weather god, Mr. President, who bothers the people of the country. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u5	A respectable president. I'd like to make it a subject of the Constitution as it has been both this fall and the rest of this council. There have been a number of cases, including from the left movement - green supply; I think there are 17 to 19 cases, 20 with the latest cases we've presented, which cannot be measured. When we think about the fact that before Christmas, only the budget and meetings were unusually brief day after day, a meeting of committees, etc., you ask: "Why couldn't you figure things out? Social help, impairment rate, media reading, health care at higher schools, student housing, minimum wage legislation, travel risk assessment and a court-based survey for natural resources. Then, in the days of the council, we proposed a decree for the establishment of the National Council and preparations to produce the long term national interest strategy. This was not because the government's situation was delaying a case before the New Year's Eve that they could not be measured for that reason, so I'm sure. I thought it was the highest. The president carries volleyball and councilmen in his final address here before Christmas, where written inquiries would have been so many that it could not be successful to answer them. It should be a cause for joy that members of the Parliament are diligent in asking and wanting answers in various matters, and perhaps it is the way of having more questions when matters are not presented. Perhaps we are also looking forward to the additional failure shown here in the last meters for the budgets of 2014, where the Ministry had to cut down another 5% and thus reduce the number of people, unable to care for what is presented here by members of Congress. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u6	A respectable president. We have recently received many news from the media about the victims of domestic violence and such acts of vengeance. The Parliament has a bill on the latter from the Council of Birts. I hope we can make it happen soon and say it again. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir for the urgency of these senators. This subject is urgent, and it is necessary to present the new reality that we are going to see under laws and regulations in order to protect the victims of sexual abuse. Mr. President. I want this time to direct the council's attention to news on how a restraining order and the legal protection that the decision is to provide does not seem to protect the victims of domestic violence. It was in the news that Alda Hrönn Jóhannsdóttir, an assistant police officer in the capital area, said that recent Supreme Court decision on a restraining order due to domestic violence was contrary to the understanding of the law that the police have. In a certain case, which is now much in the discussion, the Supreme Court dismissed the police restraining the violent man from restraining a restraining order, although he was suspected of physical violence and admitted that he had sent a sex tape to a woman's colleagues and a nude photo of her. In view of the chief's words and the obvious conclusion that this is not a single case, the Council needs to consider whether the law will fail to achieve the purpose for which it is intended. If that's the result, we need to make some changes, and this case needs to take priority, Mr. President. We cannot invite the women and children of this country to be subjected to domestic violence because we are too suspended or are doing something else. There is nothing else to be done about our work at the General but to protect people from such crime.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u7	President. First, I want to say the words of the last speaker in earnest, yet I intend to discuss all other matters. At the latest labour market agreements, in 2013, the major institutions of the country, the governments, the Federal Committee, the head of industry, and the labor movement were combined to put the responsibility on the economic stability of the people in the country. Companies were negotiated with under 3% of the total pay increase. In some cases it was found that the company's pay increased by 13% between 2012 and 2013, which gave payers long noses and commercial leaders talk about total partnerships, and correction was almost nothing more than rudeness. Nor has the government left behind in the contest of giving public payers long - distance noses. The government increased the food tax, which weighs on the budget of those with the lowest income and the remainder of the income tax, the high income tax, which, of course, comes only to the maximum benefit. A new study reveals that 1% of the people own a quarter of property in the country and half of the population own less than 750 thousand. And the government will cancel the wealth tax that brought up the government budget of nearly 10 billion. Meetings are held on social responsibilities, a dignified president. The Community responsibility of the enterprises should be to pay people enough to be able to support themselves, and their social responsibility should also be to pay full prices of common resources. The social responsibility of the government should be to care for the welfare of the entire nation, not just the welfare of the rich. President. That's the wrong thing for the Icelandic economy. The cards need to be repacked and given up.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u8	The president would like to explain this in the discussion of the fate and status of Congress that in recent years, the last fall council was provided with a committee of 50 members of Congress, which must be fair in view of the situation of such cases.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u9	A respectable president. I'm going to congratulate all of us by day, because today's January 28th. Today, for two years since Iceland and the United States did a legal case for the International Court, EFTA, winning the complete victory over the British and Dutch and the EU, which was moving into the Icezave case. I thank the people of the country for their courage to accompany us as candidates through two national hearings and dare to follow their convictions in the shadow of the severe threats, curses, and subversive attacks directed by the existing counsellors, the Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, and Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir. As part of this matter, the nation is again shaken with great weight. [[Up front.]] Privacy w. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, when he was Minister of finance during his last term, was conducted with no discussion at the General Assembly and no changes in the working environment of banks and other financial companies or financial laws following the collapse. That decision was made without any professional judgment, prices, or tenders. It also needs to be informed if and when an investigation of the second personal development of the banks is made on what basis the decision was made to take over from the SEC for root cuts based on the emergency law and to move to the then financial ministers who brought it to the bank's demands overnight. Here I am not trying to suggest that the law has been committed. Rather, it is everyone's interest that these matters will be examined and examined in order to find out the right thing. That work I do not fear as a member of the nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u10	A full-scale conspiracy.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u11	A respectable president. Iceland's government has crossed the border in its largest national interest. The officials of the board speak, one east, and the other west, when it comes to decommissioning the fallen banks. At the beginning of the month, the prime minister said that steps would be taken already in January, which is so good and that no steps have been taken. However, the secretary of finance says that the steps will be taken to the early part of this year. The prime minister therefore declares that home needs to be harmless of this procedure. This morning the minister of finance declared that we must take the jump in good faith. Prime Minister declares that there will be considerable room for negotiations with the demands. The secretary of finance declared yesterday that it was not a matter of earning money but of maintaining stability. The prime minister says that this is a major political battle against foreign demands to cover the 800 billion dollars. A financial minister declares that this is mainly the work of experts. It has been declared here that negotiations with the demands must not be made. Then a few months go by, and as a commission from the government comes into negotiations with the heads of broken - up banks. This biggest uncertainty has been published in the Icelandic economy on international financial markets that this particular month the government would provide a new plan for the execution of the problems. It is now more than a year and a half ago, with nothing to do with any plan. The government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir is still in force. We need to stand together in this nation's largest interest here at Parliament, government, and government, but it is of course completely incompetent that the heads of the administrations cannot even join one another and, in principle, have similar views in the largest interests of the Icelandic nation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u12	V.E.G. President. Happy birthday, Icelanders. Much has been said about the trust, respect, and belief of the public in the General Assembly. Many have also been informed about the importance of having everything on board, of applying clear guidelines, and of developing a work ethic that increases the pervadency of the involved. Hv. paritaprevir The Árni of Páll Árnason, president of the United Nations and former secretary of commerce and economic economy, spoke about the importance of today's transparency and policy of delinquency, pointing to suspicion as a result of the previous personal development of the banks. I can agree that the transparency and general game rules need to apply to such large issues as the personalisation of the banking system; however, this is in line with the suggestions made by the general candidates at the General Assembly during the last term to investigate the later privatization of the banks, the last government, and the Víglundur state of Þorsteinsson, have now sent data to members of Congress, along with the previous. The proposals were both set down by the then government groups, and for some reason it seemed less urgent. In view of this, I'd like to ask why. paritaprevir The Guðmundur Steingrímsson, president of Birts, agrees that all aspects of the restoration of the banking system are important. Does he agree that there is a positive result for the better examination of these events in order to produce all evidence and events? That's what I'm talking about. A senator of the opinion that such a study can shed light on the matter and thus eliminate suspicion of the process that took place there?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u13	A respectable president. I appreciate the question. Recycling the financial system in Iceland after the collapse of everything in almost one week was a huge and complex matter. The restoration of the financial system is amazing, one of which was possible on the basis of the emergency law. As for this restoration, a very good report was written and published in 2011 by the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, where it is all traceable. The objective was to create a financial system that would protect Iceland's interiors, which, of course, had to be set aside property from the fallen banks in favor of these commitments. There was an extensive assessment of these assets employed by a foreign adviser firm. It's all damp. These assets had likely followed the financial system by about 50%. I am concerned with the views that this terrible collapse of the financial system has been and is in some way unsolved lottery fraud for Icelanders, that Iceland can be a huge fan of this process and make hundreds of billions of dollars. [[Take it to the top: outleties.]] It's kind of that thought, the venting thought. I feel that she sometimes watches over many senators, and I don't think she's right. I think it was wise to restore the financial system, which is most evident in the fact that most of it was successful in rebuilding it. [[Up top: fuck houses.]] It's a little misleading to talk about how the banks were privatized at this point. They didn't belong to the government. It was about rebuilding three banking institutions to the ruins of those who did not belong to the State. [[Up front.]] If the State had wanted to restore three federal banks on this foundation, the State would have had to contribute all to their own money, but it was decided to contribute only one to their own money and to take other ways. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u14	Mr. President. We members of Congress have received a mass mail signed by Land Protection to refuse a proposal submitted to a professional station last week, a proposal to add four priming options to the one already discussed in the Committee, i.e. Impulse reactivation. This is shown in the letter to the members of Congress that it is contrary to the spirit of the laws on the Framework and that it is possible for peace to be settled in this country and that if the proposal is adopted, it is in effect that members of Congress can offer any proposal without any professional discussion of the expert framework. They're asking if we're calling for that fight. We know that already the highest. Environment Minister, not the above, but the Sigurður of Ingi Jóhannsson, suggested eight activation initiatives and proposed that a project administration bring the results as early as possible, and the task management gave away this one option, Involvement, suggested that it go to a novelty party, it was a matter of trial by the task management to show that there were far too few benefits to do this work. At present, the Energy Agency has proposed 80 sources of activation to the Environment Minister, whom the Environment Minister shall appoint to task management. I'd like to use this opportunity here and see that we, the one standing here, and the one who's here. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall, I've submitted a paradox, I repeat because of the former Supreme Court. Environment Minister is here that we have proposed a deliberation proposal for these changes to the employment board since the last week to transfer these four benefits into the proposal and send them out for review. [[Up front.]] We suggest that this case be dismissed and that any benefits of this adjustment will return to the project administration to re-order. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u15	A respectable president. The profits of the banks and the banking system over the last few years have been complete. Many have asked themselves, " How can this be so soon after their failure? ' As if nothing ever happened, their profits are as never before. Still, financial institutions close branch offices, reimburse services, and even raise the interest of loans on the direct interest level. This suggests that profits are not real. By the time the loans were transferred to the new banks, they were recorded at an average of 50,55%. A report from Deloitte, London, showed this. This shows that 45◯50% of the loan collections were requirements that the public and the businesses of the country were considered unable to pay for the financial breakdown. As a result, it would have been natural for financial institutions to return this much deportation to their customers, the nation. Aquifers were given authority over Icelandic banks. The loan collection was estimated at half the price of a piece of property crash, of obscenity, and of a gang crash, but the charge was 100% over the limit of the emergency law. Icelandic homes and businesses were left behind with way too much debt. In 2009, the opportunity was open to the Icelandic home and business to enjoy this deportation, and it was known at that time. This was precisely done by 20% of the progress and the exact outcome was the correction. An conscious political decision was made in a different direction by the last government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u16	A respectable president. Prime Minister and his party here in this hall have recently spoken, and the past few years also, as if this state had ever owned a bank of Iceland and Arion's bank, i.e. It's an old prenup. When was that? Could any of these fine senators who have been here to tell me exactly when that was? When did the Icelandic State use this bank and demand for it? When? When did the State have a possession of these financial institutions in its hands in order to privatize them, as the chairman of the legal committee said earlier? [[Up front.]] When did that happen, Mr. Honorable President? I think the advance team and the prime minister need to show us this, and maybe they'll do a little report on the exact timing of the holding of these financial institutions in the hands of the State. If so, we may be able to make further progress in this discussion. It's a load of shit they say, it's just that simple. People talk here like the state ever had it. It was just never like that. A respectable president. I think that when men step forward in this way, they have to explain this small fundamental point that is essential to their speech. If humans cannot tell us when this occurred, their speech is totally dead. That is why it may not be done. Finally, I'd like to say that this is an approved Generalis investigation of the private development of banks from the beginning of the century. I think it's a good thing for people to go along with this approval of the Generals and then start an investigation before they continue to investigate what happened in the banking system later in the century. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u17	A respectable president. I have at times come up here under this program to complain about the government. That has sometimes been a reason to do so. But now I'm here to commend one of the government. V.E.G. The local minister of Ólöf Nordal made a sound request during the hearing of the President's conference board yesterday to correct the information she gave oral answer to my inquiry for performance and the administration of the state to carry out the Helgurav crew. In the heat of the game, everyone is prone to make mistakes, but not everyone is quick to rise and to correct his words as clearly as possible. The Minister of the Interior did here yesterday. I am very grateful for that. It is important to this matter, and I know that more people who are familiar with it are grateful to be the highest. The Minister of the Interior has made such clear. In this regard, I think she's a good example, and I say, "This is how the county should be.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u18	A respectable president. This is where the government stands. First, I want to congratulate the nation that today there are two years since the Icelandic nation conquered the Icesave case and defeated the ESA and the European Union in the courts, on the contrary, all claimed possible. I'd like to get involved in a conversation that turns to the swellingers of the fallen banks, that's right next to the government stand. I'd like to grab hold of a very remarkable interview that was on the radio yesterday with Heiðar Guðjónsson. He will discuss this subject, which has been quite significant during the last few days' discussion, with the permission of a respectable president: ▪ Well, what is, of course, that things have different prices after different times, and the world was very fragile until March 2009. At last international financial markets begin to improve. There's a bank developing into vast uncertainty and, of course, a table needs to be served. Then the state comes in, if I recall 380 billion shares in the new banks, take the most risks, restore the system, and then decide to give back the benefits of it because it came into existence because it was successful. It could have gone the other way, but it succeeded, and it was the government and the public who took the risk, and they then decided to bring the benefits to these cities, especially Glitnis and Copenhagen, and why were they doing so? It was an interview on the radio yesterday morning at Heiðar Guðjónsson on this subject. He's not a candidate, he's not a senator of the Agency, he's not Prime Minister, it's an interview with a person in the town. Another person expressing this in a blog operation is Marinó G. Njálsson, who was then one of the main leaders of the household's Hauspuna Association. He's going through this thing on the blog and he's going over the consequences. There must be a will for us here to consider these matters. [[Up front.]] This will be considered in the management and monitoring committee, and it must be a matter of interest for us to consider these issues based on what is included in this interview. [[The president calls.]] I can't believe that the government stand against it here at the Great General. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u19	V.E.G. President. Yes, there is every reason to say congratulations to the Icelanders with this bright and beautiful day that marks the twoth anniversary of the complete victory in the Icesave case. [[Up front.]] I don't know why men are so upset about this, it's like there's some underlying dissatisfaction about this thing that I don't believe exists. Actually, I wasn't going to talk about it today. I was going to row on a point like that. paritaprevir Ólafsdóttir. I must say that I am deeply shocked by what appears to be an interview with the deputy police officer in the capital area, the Alda of Hrönn Jóhannsdóttir, that the Supreme Court has canceled the value of three restraining bans established by the Reykjavík police. I'm not going to argue with the judge, I'm not going to argue with the Supreme Court, but if it's so that the laws or the legal modifications made at the Council very recently, which involved the transport of violent men from homes and restraining them, if there's room for evaluation of the circumstances in the law that prevents the implementation of a restraining order, we must simply explain these laws. There is no room for any assessment at any given time when it meant violent men, and not just those who have fallen into violence in their homes, are removed from there, and imposed on the restraining order, that if the rest of the homes are not safe and cannot be sure of their hide, it is our duty to act immediately and correct the changes we made at the time, in order to prevent these events from repeating themselves. I'd like to end up quoting the Sergeant's words, please, by permission of the Supreme Marshal's office. A president, where she says: We hope, of course, that this will not cause us to lose our ability to do so because they think it will not work. We simply need to give these people the confidence and confidence that they will continue to challenge the police. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u20	Mr. President. I agree with what you're saying. Councilmen of the Þörstein Sæmundsson of Sæmund and Björt Ólafsdóttir on the possibility of revising and doing a thing about the restraining order, following the Supreme Court decision. I'm not going to have any more words. Mr. President. The day before yesterday was the highest. The prime minister entered upon his response to the leak, for the council and the nation had waited a long time for a response from the highest level. Prime Minister. How did he react to the wishes of several senators? They refer to their bill of the Council of Control, which he later proposed to a council yesterday. What did this wonderful bill show? To the highest. Prime Ministers intend to put down seven committees on moral standards for government Ministers and have no rules for ministers or administration. Yes, people, we've got the highest response. The prime minister of the leak case is to have no morality for a minister and to put down seven independent committees on moral standards for the minister and the administration. That's his reaction. I don't need to remind you that in chapter 8 of the Administrative Commission report following the economic collapse, Ministers are strongly warned of the matter of Ministers' overpowering themselves. But what's going to happen? When the committee passes down, does the prime minister have no rules for ministers? Yes, he intends to adopt this on his own arms, alone and unsatisfactory, he intends to weigh and weigh the morality of his own Minister in his own government. This is his reaction to one of the biggest scandals in Icelandic politics in the last few years. I think it's best for us that he will make a good living in reevaluating his decision.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u21	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Social Affairs Minister for taking this discussion about the user-controlled personal assistance with me and other members of the council today. This discussion is of great importance for many who are disabled, disabled, and their caregivers, and of course, the whole community is very important because when we discuss NPA, the user - controlled personal assistance, we are discussing the right to independent life, the self - determination right that we want to apply to everyone, and not just the group of people who can, of course, take advantage of that human rights. Hopefully, all of us do not want to show favoritism toward that right. The test behind the MPA doesn't come from loose air. It is based on studies in a number of areas such as psychology, sociology and disability. Similarly, a number of economic costs and use analyses have been carried out that assess the benefits and costs of community services. What these studies over the years have shown us about self - control has long been widely known. Independence is good for us. Strong feelings of active self - control and the choice of basic aspects of human life, ours, results in both physical and mental well - being, while feelings of helplessness and loss of self - control lead to depression, anxiety, a lower threshold of pain, a greater risk of sickness and death. The results of all studies and experiments are self-involved or to demonstrate this. People's independence and independent life provide a fundamental basis for feeling comfortable and thus have the capacity to produce and be an active member of society. Proliferation and use analyses of the NPA- Service Form are newer studies. They clearly show that although the cost of stocking may be higher, the long - term improvement, especially in promoting disabled persons for participation in MPA, they are caused, for example, by the disability of using the flexibility of the ministry in support of job participation. I'd love to, I swear, pay to the community as much as anyone in the form of taxes, but then we have to make sure that it's possible. After the General Assembly agreed to a pact proposal for user-controlled personal assistance during the last term, an experimental service project began. The objective was to develop ways of taking up the user - controlled personal assistance to disabled persons in a targeted and effective manner. The service was to be organized by the users themselves and on the basis of the user, under the supervision of the user. In the meantime, a minister appointed seven members of the project to help with the cooperation of rural society. The Conspiracy proposal adopted by the General Assembly also stated that a professional and financial assessment of the cooperation project should be conducted before the end of 2014, at which point the testing project should be formally completed. Furthermore, in the Council of Congress, it states that a minister should no later than the end of 2014 put in a bill to legalize that personal assistance will be established as a principal form of service to disabled persons and that the subject of the bill should include experience and the implementation of the cooperative project. No such bill has been seen today in spite of the approval of the council, which is binding on the Minister and Ministry. Neither financial nor professional assessment of the cooperation project has been provided by the minister. In fact, no meeting plans for a new project management are at the highest level. Minister of Eygló Harðardóttir made it my last fall, reminded me, or news on the Ministry's website to know that this new task force began. Admittedly, this is not easy to understand. I don't want to do the highest. A minister of opinion, but it seems that the project is not of concern to her. Then I hope she can correct it and explain it, and I ask her to explain her thoughts to the ideologies of independent life and the user - controlled personal assistance. I'm also asking her: "When can you expect a layer of MPA to be established? Why has there not been a law-made bill, and what is work done with the results of cost-efficient analysis of the service in this country during the trial period?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u22	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Give Ólafsdóttir for starting this special discussion and the questions she is pointing to me. Hv. A senator specifically pointed to me four questions about the user - controlled personal assistance, PA. First, I want to indicate that by the end of the year, I would respond to a written inquiry from what happened. Árnadóttir In view of the lack of experience in the implementation of the user - controlled personal assistance, I have decided to extend the project by the European Union for two years. So over the next few weeks, I said I would present a bill to correct a change in law No. 59/1992, consistent with that, on the subjects of disabled persons. The bill assumes that the user - controlled personal assistance will be offered for the end of 2016 or until a review of law on the issues of disabled persons will be completed. For example, in a bill for a review of the law, there will be a provision to legalize the user - controlled personal assistance as a service form for disabled persons. This can be found in the records of the council. Today's program for the council is the very bill quoted in this article. For one thing, it shows that it has taken more time to start the test project than we may have planned at the beginning. For example, the largest rural society in the country made its first contract at the beginning of 2013, as shown in the report. The bill also contains provisions to clear up the working hours of people who have been working under the user - controlled personal assistance, and this is in line with tips that have been presented in the progress of the problem. The answer also shows that a professional and financial assessment of the cooperation project is under way but that it is decided to extend the cooperation project by two years, however, it is proper to allow professional and financial food to cover a longer period than originally planned. This could give you deeper and more detailed information on how to manage user - controlled personal assistance to the future. The assessment would take place between 2014 and 2015 and will be fully completed in 2016. It also shows that the NPA project management has held 15 formal meetings since March 19, 2013, so I believe this has been a very successful operation. However, there have been several factors that can be pointed to a lawsuit that has been going on with the city of Reykjavík regarding the box on the user - controlled personal assistance. I'd also like to point out that I've been studying just how the induction has been accomplished in other parts of the North countries. For example, as shown in the bill's report, Norway's experiments with NPA began in 1990, and ten years later such service was legalized as a national service strategy. It turns out that the other countries have a considerable amount of experience, and they've taken time to develop it and make sure it's the best of them. However, it is quite clear that those who have received NPA are very pleased with that service, and it is, in my opinion, a good strategy. I think it's very important that this should appear in new legislation, as I've mentioned here. The same committee is a review of total reexamination of the laws on the affairs of disabled persons and has social services laws and one of those that have been examined is whether it is right to combine these with one law. There is also a very big point that we are going over and that we come to the important concept as a matter of course. A senator went through here, a independent life. I think we all agree on the importance of that. It's the approach of the Ministry of Health and my approach to all the factors involved in this case. When I have had a meeting with my community on social services and the affairs of disabled persons, housing has come up over and over again to contribute to the very idea that people can have a life of themselves. It may have been left behind a considerable amount of time, so we will be better able to grasp it in cooperation with our rural communities. I have placed great emphasis on the opportunity of those with disability to get into the workforce and ensure efficacy. [[The president calls.]] These are factors that we have really worked hard to do. I want to finally mention, as I have mentioned in any matter involving disabled people, the importance of innovation and welfare technology, to improve the quality of the service to this group. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u23	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir That's Ólafsdóttir for starting this discussion today, and I'm impressed. Social and housing minister to continue working on the spirit done during the last term. During the reign of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, who began just after the collapse of the economic system, the stage was a big, important step in the affairs of disabled people. It was accepted as a change in the law on the affairs of disabled persons, so they were transferred to the countryside. The Congress decided that the Minister should create a strategy for the council in the form of a synonym and that it was adopted, a projection plan published in 2014. We were placed in a court of rights for disabled people and on the basis of Congress resolutions. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson's son, etc. was approved by a synopsis proposal for NAPA, which, in turn, became a preliminary law on service to disabled people, which requires that this type of service be legalized by the end of 2014. That is exactly what happened. A senator asks here today. I encourage Ministers to contribute everything so that this can come true in accordance with the strategy it presents today. I'd also like to ask her if there's enough money to be assured of the project to 2016 and if it should increase the rate of the contracts during that period, since that too is very important. I'd like to say here that there was a very good agreement on these issues during the last terms, the smaller parts contributed a great deal and a lot. [[The president calls.]] I encourage ministers to continue working in that spirit.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u24	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir We have Ólafsdóttir for recording this discussion about the user - controlled personal assistance. I think it's a very important matter to discuss for disabled people and their caregivers as well as for the whole community. A senator pointed to the beginning. What was shown in the case of the highest. I'm sure I'm not surprised by the Minister of the Harðardóttir Harurddótttir before. She said that users were very pleased with this service form. It's no wonder, because it's a ideologies that all people, regardless of their nature and severity, can make their own decisions, direct their own help, and shape their own way of life. This is something that I think we all want, and it doesn't matter whether we have difficulty hearing, seeing, walking, or whatever else it is now. The most important thing to do with MPA is, especially from the user's perspective, that with MPA, people who are disabled control themselves how the assistance is organized, when it is taking place, and where, i.e. People control their lives, which is very different from what happens in the general service system, where people have to adjust to the service provider's terms. I think that's the situation that many of us in this room have a very difficult time imagining what it's like. In my second speech, I will get more into the future mice in this regard, but this is the most important thing that the disabled can get. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u25	A respectable president. Like others, I thank you for taking this discussion here. I find it necessary to repeat again and again that these are the communities that have a group of disabled persons to do so. In order for us to validate NPA, we must have a professional and financial assessment of the project set up and to complete 2014. At that time, it is possible to ensure that NPA can become a service plan, where this process is based on as the most reliable information provided by the service users, those who provide services and governments for the best of the ministry. This is the group of litigators. This factor requires extra funding, and it must also be included in this account. It may be that concomitant treatment of NPA may need to be performed in one way or another. well-being minister to renegotiate their rural communities on the money the state brought to the countryside as soon as the group was transferred. On the other hand, we may all agree that giving disabled persons the opportunity to live independent lives, in order to have self - control about how they live their lives, must be their primary goal with NPA. That's why it's supposed to be a celebration. A minister should plan to extend this cooperation project and then make a professional and financial assessment so that a decision can be made in a way that we will legalize the MPA.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u26	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. The phrase for starting this discussion, as well as for the seemingly policy road, is actually slower than you would hope. I'm the highest. A minister to the admiration of these and other materials. Here we discuss a little bit of MPA's proceeds and rightly so. It is important to think that with NPA, people can share in things that they cannot otherwise participate in, including professional activities. In my opinion, though, it's not what should primarily be kept in mind. Although it is important when it comes to the cost - related analysis, I feel that we should look primarily at the life forms that are being enjoyed by individuals. We at the High Parliament are always in a position to place some value on things that are truly priceless. We need to defend our health system where people's lives are at stake, etc. I suggest, sir, that freedom is one of the priceless things. Individuals who have most NPA services are individuals who are skewed either at home or in some other situation where they cannot participate in life themselves, e.g. in social activities or in coffee shops, things that others would take for granted. I have sometimes wondered if this group of litigators might have some more place at the Home of the State Department, not that I am sure that there is a positive arrangement. I sometimes wondered because it is also a matter of individual rights to freedom. Then I wondered how we would talk about it if we had groups of people who were bound by ropes. What were we going to pay to take off their rope, make them free, let them live their lives on their own without regard for any other employee's plans? [[The president calls.]] I think we're going to pay a lot for it. [[The president calls.]] I suggest we do it and at the height. Minister to the honor of this. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u27	A respectable president. I embrace this discussion very much and find it very important not to disagree on this subject. I'm not going to argue with the highest level. Social Affairs Minister on her mind or plans for building user-controlled personal assistance but would like to say that I'm sorry that the Senate doesn't qualify for personal assistance. That's the way it is, and I understand the words of the highest. Minister so that bill will come. I encourage the Minister to perform this and remind him of all the materials she has in her hands to provide the user - controlled personal assistance in Iceland as the prime option in serving disabled people. The General has spoken on this matter. There is the unanimous attitude of the Generals to a synopsis that was presented here by me and others that we should introduce personal assistance to the user. There is a law on the rights of disabled people. I was chairman of a project manager for the introduction of user - controlled personal assistance, controlled one 50, 60 meetings, and well knows that this is not a simple matter. A manual on the user - controlled personal assistance was provided in a large manner of consultation with disabled people, communities, and others. It wasn't easy, but it's very wealthy. There were guiding rules about the user - controlled type of personal assistance. There were 50 experimental contracts on the user-controlled basis. One of the biggest things I've seen in politics has been seeing people who haven't enjoyed their own lives gain it by a contract for user-controlled personal assistance. Maybe that's the most encouraging thing I hope to do. A minister will make an assessment of his work ahead of him. Then, all of us need to remind ourselves that from cost and profit analysis, which I think would be a good thing for user-controlled personal assistance, this is primarily human rights and is about ensuring freedom and right to survival. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u28	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A Björt Ólafsdóttir for starting the discussion on this important subject, which is handled by the user. Hv. A perfunctory, highest. Ministers and more before. Congress officials have made it very clear the importance of human rights and the importance of ensuring the individual's independence and freedom, which are the most important elements of the measures we discuss. V.E.G. A minister also stressed extending this development project. As we have seen during this discussion, it was not possible to validate it here at the end of 2014, but the most important point of this discussion may prove to be successful in all areas and that this important rights indeed will be used together with other measures. In order to get a good grip on the project of management, and this project, it is wise to take the way that the minister has chosen, to extend the temporary and legal action of disabled people, to go to 2016, and complete it. Thus, legal foundations can be assured and well - thought - out, financial, and professional assessments on the project can be assured of the financial and professional value needed to establish this important legal option.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u29	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Ólafsdóttir for reminding that this was the year when some new things were supposed to happen in what would attract the user - controlled personal assistance. I thank the minister for the answers as far as they can, that they will not go beyond the fact that they are going to extend the first two years of their first contracts in Reykjavík. There may be some evidence that the project will take longer. In view of the influence this has for those enjoying the ministry, and a minister did so well with the users the much satisfaction that comes from receiving personal assistance, it is certainly sad if nothing is to be done on the whole of this ideal. Two years from now, the season's over. Everyone knows how difficult it is in this case, the difficult thing about it is not to hold a committee meeting or to extend an experiment. The challenge is to obtain the funds and political support needed to provide the services that are so much better than the services that people have today. I encourage the Minister to reexamine the intention of postponing that project until the end of the election season, when the capital is really out of the hands of this government, and trying to achieve some milestone in the case of its Ministership in other cases, but only to extend this decided task.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u30	V.E.G. President. Because it's the highest. The Minister of Harðardóttir Harderdótttir mentioned in her reply earlier to my request for the induction of NPA that I would like to point out that it is not just us at the council that was extending on this matter but that the users of the ministry were very long gone in the fall after being informed about the expansion of the ministry. Although I have been disappointed in some extent, I feel that I am at the height of my situation. However, a minister would not take steps now than extending the agreement for two years, but I think some that have already entered the system had quite light breathed out. I think it's a bit serious in this case that a lot of people have been very uncertain about their status and who she would be after the New Year's Eve. Then I'd like to agree with what's been said here, that it's important human rights. That certainly is true, but it is so important that we do not just consider this as a matter of choice. Because of the highest. In this context of the building policy, a minister mentioned earlier, but not long ago, the demand for living apartments and the number of people who again have the impact of building a home that will be unacceptable to disabled people who will interfere with the possibility of living independently and visiting friends and relatives. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u31	A respectable president. I also want to be happy that this subject is on the program, especially because it is my virgin talk from this talk, since it is both very important and most related to me. I have not only been assigned to the NPA project and have been a special spokesman for developing a range of flexible services to move out of this established environment into the flexibility. That's what it takes, and that's what NAPA is about. This may be one of the most important projects we are discussing today. I can tell you the experiences of the project management that by starting this project and seeing what happens in it, we will find where institutions meet their flexibility. Since we have seen a lot of problems because of a number of issues that need to be considered, of course we need to review them better and see if we need to change the frame, how people feel, how they are going to get involved in the management plan. I don't know if everyone knows, but it's nothing like what people know here and have known through the years. This is about a person who receives a service, not having to move to a certain institution, but getting the ministry home on his own terms and completely deciding what happens. A respectable president. I'm very happy that the project will be extended and that this is where it lies. Of course, freedom of choice and independence are for those who need our heart to help. I think I'll talk them for all of us who sit here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u32	A respectable president. First, I must express my joy with a talk. paritaprevir María Áslaug's Friðriksdóttir, who spoke before me and also congratulates her on her virgin talk. It just so happens that I'm so lucky to have met a small person who enjoys NPA services and is totally stuck at home without her. This person is sharing in the party work, and I wonder when this discussion shows up how I would be able to associate with him if he lost that privilege. I find it a bit hard to imagine what it would be like to enjoy this service and to be able to share in social activities, go out and drink beer with my friends, or coffee, if out into it, or do what the person himself wants, to control his or her life without regard for what anyone else thinks or whether anyone else has time to do it. It's the important thing about freedom, that the individual himself decides, not just that he can do certain things at certain times and reasons, but when he wants to do them and without necessarily needing someone else's approval for that, i.e. More than what the public needs. When people talk about delinquency, I imagine in this context that a person who has enjoyed this service must think of it as an inhuman prison, even if it is a very good service to an appropriate institution. When we piranha began looking for a home, we found it shallow to see that there was access to the disabled. When you observe such a process, you begin to experience the curse of the situation, how forgotten this group is, how easy it is to think of ◯ We don't have to think about it much when it really needs to be checked. Much has to be done to make it possible for this forgotten group to live their own independent lives properly. [[The president calls.]] So I welcome this discussion and the development that seems to be taking place even though it is slow.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u33	A respectable president. First, I want to thank all those who have spoken up and, of course, special ministers for good answers. She's certainly well in it, she can't be taken away. But I'm, like so many times in different matters, anxious and sad that we're looking at 2016 now, first of all, in 2014. We have no doubt that a new council would put it first. I think it's a production and waste of time if the council spends them on two terms of choice and whole in discussing these matters if the project falls down. I'm afraid of it a little, and I encourage the Minister to put it through before the season is over. I understand if the assessment is missing, but if it is to continue with the same form, it is not expected to add to any NPA users. No new ones will ever get in. What new evidence, then, will be added to these financial data that need to be appreciated? Are they that important? For example, we can base on the experience of the Norwegians and Sweden as high as possible. A minister went over so well and accepted what they have studied and knew and applied to us? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u34	A respectable president. Thank you so much for this discussion. What I would also like to wish at the end of it is that we talk more about the affairs of disabled people. This is the group of paintings that may have surprised me the most when I came to the Ministry of Health, the amazing diversity of individuals when we talk about this group, the ◆ people, how many needs are there, the demands made for the public, to the countryside, and also how much good we've been doing. Indeed, the last government can have that it did much good. I also stress that the government's situation supported much of what was suggested there. This, on the other hand, costs money. We are also at the same time moving the jury to another administrative level, so the responsibility of the rural community. To me, it is very important that the steps we take are taken in very good collaboration with our rural society, the ones responsible for the category of paint. It should be acknowledged that there has been a measure of suspicion against NPA in individual rural authorities. The first contracts were delayed. I agree with it. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar said and also pointed out that the largest member of the community, the most influential, e.g. The European Union, a member of the Icelandic community, is controlled by some local government from the bright future, the United States of America, and the left green that can have much to say about how these developments will be developed in this category. Because the rural population pays 80% of the cost at NPA, making decisions as to whether we want to offer this service or not is also a member of the local government. The government is offering 20%, so there was nothing to say that if it was real interest in the local government to offer it up, the project should be terminated. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We will continue working on the MPA. It's good to find the support here, but also open the discussion about this wonderful and varied group of subjects at the council. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u35	V.E.G. President. I recommend here for a bill to correct the change in pharmaceutical law, No. 93/1994, with subsequent changes. The objective of the bill is to eliminate the difference between the media when it comes to commercial drugs. In 1st. Section 16. The current law allows you to present and advertise freeselling products, with the exception that advertising is forbidden on television. For example, on account of the United States Association and the Trade and Service Association, it has been noted that laws forbidding the advertising of commercial drugs on TV are not designed to increase the competition of drug sales, nor is the ban consistent with the values in neighboring countries. The bill agrees with their viewpoints and suggests that advertising on TV free sales will be lifted. At the same time, 1st pars. The bill suggested that the change in 14th paragraph. To no longer be required to publish information on the pack sizes, sizes, dose sizes, and key elements of the use and side effects in the advertisements. These data may be quite extensive, especially those dealing with side effects of medicines. Therefore, it may be difficult to make them available for advertisements. However, the information provided is important, and it is therefore suggested that it not be presented in the Marketing Authorisation, please refer to the package leaflet of this medicinal product, which is available on the website of the Marketing Authorisation Holder. A respectable president. I have now explained the basic principles of the bill and suggest that it be referred to. The welfare committee to the 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u36	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the speech. Many feel that advertising is some kind of propaganda and all propaganda but forget that advertising is also information, product information, and service. It is more or less forbidden in the whole health system to advertise. Experts are not allowed to advertise their services, and so far it has not been allowed to advertise a drug. All of this is forbidden, all in the sense that advertising is from evil in some sense. In my mind, advertising is primarily to inform people about what is available, etc. On this occasion, I would like to ask the highest. A minister of health care whether he intends to relax ads in the health - care field, which prevents all competition. How to compete for e.g. Service, health care, or what it is already not to be informed? Those who perform services, e.g. a variety of health care services, must not be informed. What kind of prejudice is this about advertising?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u37	A respectable president. Thank you. The foreman of encouragement. I'm the kind of person that I would have wanted to first try to see if the council would not welcome this slight change to equal the media situation to make the information available to those in charge of the drugs want to make known to the consumers. I pretend to know without me getting involved with any other factors, including Those who are specifically involved in medical work must be discussed between the trade union and the government. It may well be, and now I have the advance of what I say, that there are some ethical rules or things like those of certain health groups that may prevent them from advertising their activities in the manner discussed here. However, I would point out that there are certain factors related to the normal way of life that have been introduced in recent years and that have been brought to the attention by advertisements, but direct medical practice, such as direct medical practice. Ads are not allowed by dentists or specialist services. I don't know why it is. But to answer the final question, why? A senator, I'm not very conservative in these matters. I admit that I have not gone outside the range the bill considers the factors it makes as a subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u38	Mr. President. I thank you for the answer as far as it will go, and I want to declare that I'm one of the 63 years old. Subjects will support this change even if it is small and gradual. The point is that health care has become so complex and so complex that I am sure that many citizens in the country do not know and know the service that they could offer because it is not to be advertised. Coaches are not allowed to advertise. No one can advertise. Perhaps someone has a child who has difficulty speaking, and where do you turn? Where are the advertisements? Where's the information? They're completely missing. I'd like to encourage you. A committee that gives the issue a comment to extend the bill quite seriously and risks these prejudices against advertising. Advertising is not the bad. Although it may be often in that much propaganda, advertising is primarily illuminating.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u39	A respectable president. I appreciate the declaration of support. The senator of this little bill should be thanked. You're right. One senator notes that it is, in fact, forbidden to advertise the work involved in this matter, and I reiterate that I do not understand why it is. It seems that in this field of service, there is a need for the Law and you will find it. People observe the information they feel they need in various ways. There may be good reason for this aspect of the matter to be settled and made more accessible in some way than is now a public service offered in the field of health care. It is true that advertisements are meant to communicate information about products or services, but it is also relatively easy to make good use of them for propaganda and other factors without my plans for health work in such a way. But I reiterate that there is good reason to review such views and appreciate them as a matter of course. A senator has expressed himself here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u40	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for his speech. I have to say, I understand exactly why this case is submitted. It is strange if advertisements can be allowed in one medium and not in another. It is normal to be equal, and first of all a table is allowed to advertise it is not placed in the hands alone of printers. I'm the kind of person who opposes public health advertising, not because I don't want people to get information. Health services are not on the market as do markets to maximise their profits, but health services are community service, and information can be provided in various ways. I know it's the highest. The healthcare professional is, for example, working to establish a special service phone to help people access information, and I don't really need to reenact the opportunities to provide information with various media. We simply live in such a community that it is very easy, real, to give people all the information they need about the health system without allowing the advertisements of each person. In terms of advertising on the free-selling drugs the bill is about, there are now some changes being made. Here we are talking about free sale products, but there are drugs that the state does not pay off, which, as a result, are like products on the market and are. But they're no ordinary products, so we have to be careful when fixing anti-drug legislation. I remember a very powerful advertisement that didn't go by a man about painkillers that turned out to be causing heart attacks. Thus, with a number of drugs we believe to be innocent, they cause very quickly severe liver damage if consumed beyond the recommended dose. That's what we need to think about. Therefore, I find the changes presented here, but I'm not taking sides with them here and now, so it's important that I get reviews of them and discuss them on the committee. When we discuss drugs, we are not dealing with ordinary products that can be advertised in any way. Then I have doubts about the point that you don't need to be informed about price or side effects, I don't know why it doesn't need to be. I realize there are long lists of side effects, but if that is, for example. so that medicines can cause liver damage or children must not eat them at all or at all make them feel totally normal that they need to be published. But, as I say, I'm going to stay out of the matter and I'm going to see what happens on the committee. I'd like to repeat that I feel normal, first to homes at other levels of advertisements on this particular product, that there's an equal figure in this subject, but put everybody in advance of accepting the changes in the production of information.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u41	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a bill to correct the change of pharmaceuticals, with subsequent changes, and that's about advertising. The objective of the bill is to cut off the difference between the media when it comes to advertising and is merely a free-selling drug. I think it's time to wonder if we're going the wrong way. Are you going to advertise a drug? At that time, it does not matter which medium is being done. What I'm worried about is that the market is giving access to people, possibly at the expense of consumers and consumers' protection. The name and use of the medicine will be available to you, but further information on potential complications can be serious. The reference work on the legal bill shows that the package leaflets do not need to be published, but they will be available or can be found on the Agency's website. I wondered about this extra step that will be there. People are being held, not all their information. I think we all know that even the drugs we can buy in cashiers and without a doctor's reference can get serious side effects. Therefore, I think it is very important to treat the Commission on this matter that we get the views of the consumer and the national surgeon, just so that two people are mentioned, about the effect of advertising, and the addition of advertising that will be allowed on television has on consumer protection and, in fact, the health of those who intend to use drugs. Of course, as excellent as drugs can be, we need to be careful, for wrong use of drugs is extremely serious. That's why I think we need to take a real good look at this. There's a lot of these things that call my alarm bells because, as I've said before, I feel like there's a lot of access to the market at the expense of consumers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u42	A respectable president. I'd like to come into this thing for a minute. I can say anything. A senator who spoke before me about it. As noted by the head of the welfare committee, this is no ordinary product, no products are ordinary. Then I thought about all the ATSVR discussions and what we've often called burning wine, since much of the advertising ban there is ignored. In both cases, we are talking about things that should be handled with caution. This, however, takes only on this one medium, the TV. Other media have been advertised, and we can see that these are huge advertisements, they are often full - page advertisements that are useful to producers or sales managers in newspapers. I'd rather have disappeared than expanded it, and I think it works as a bigger market area than a consumer protection. I don't approve of earlier reports that there is going to be a competition for health care or health care, as if for one dog. A senator came in. What brings my main attention to this is what does not need to be published. For example, while food producers and others need to have detailed information on their products for consumers, the importance of information to consumers is being reduced. I don't think that's what consumer protection has brought. I encourage the committee to consider this, and of course it'll be interesting to see the reviews. Advertisements and pharmaceutical presentations are discussed in the literature. 14th degree. says, with permission of the president: Medicinal products authorised by the national reporting system and the national reporting system are subject to the national reporting system and to the national competent authority of the Member States. The name of the manufacturer, the name of the medicinal product, the active substances, the main indications and the contraindications for the use of the respective medicinal product, the pack sizes and the price. In addition, dosing volumes and key safety concerns. The above information should always be clear and easy to read and in accordance with the prescribing information. We know that, indeed, medication is provided with detailed information in packages and other items and the medicines prescribed by the physician should follow their instructions. At any rate, it assumes that all information is on the table. In the 15th. it says that prescribing and dispensing medicinal products are permitted but in a way that the public is not likely to be exposed to the advertisement. The possibility for this is being reduced since the health-groups can carry out certain medicines. Finally, I want to quote Article 16. magazines that discuss the use of goods. It says that advertisements can be introduced and advertised to the public, but advertisements are in line with the rules of the European Economic Area. The pharmacy is permitted to advertise and present its services and become free-selling medicines and general payoffs. Advertising information should always be clear and easy to read, and in accordance with the reports in the prescriptions, the prescriptions and the prescriptions and the label and the other instructions under those instructions. The source being proposed here is reducing this process, i.e. the information to be published. There was talk of competition here. Why should the price not be advertised and why is it not mandatory to advertise the prices if this is to help people get into the market, although I do not particularly agree to the marketing of medical or medical services? I agree with what. paritaprevir The Steinunn Árnadóttir Arnad, I think it was her, about side effects to children or to others who should not take the drugs, etc. or any certain underlying disease, it is not allowed or something like that. I don't think we should give a discount of information, and I think it's odd that somewhere else we're sponsoring the consumer rights by requiring more information than smaller information. A respectable president. I didn't mean to have much trouble about this. I just wanted to bring in what seems worthwhile to me that the committee is wondering and is aware of when the case comes back and that it has been sent out as a comment.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u43	A respectable president. I might like to, like other members of Parliament who have discussed this matter, to reflect our perspective on these matters on the whole, i.e. We feel that drugs, those who are nonprescriptions, are like any other product to be advertised on the same terms as any other product. I'm not sure. I feel that we need to be careful about it and be serious when we're talking about a product that is natural to advertise like any other market market to compete with others. Also, I would like to ask-- that's why I'm coming up here in a very short number, I see it in comments to the bill that the Bureau makes the time to make a full revision of the rules about this-- why men are going to make this change without going to this overall review first, what happens, if something special chose because you have to go through this one change, but can't wait for a general review of the rules like the Bureau to make a clear comment and in comments to the bill. I would have liked to have an explanation for that in the following case. Minister will be here for the final speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u44	A respectable president. We're here to see a bill for changes in pharmaceutical No. 93/1994 and the change is to add a medium named television to existing sources about products that do not require prescriptions. Advertisings that appear in the press are often larger, larger, more detailed, more space, longer, if we can say so, than TV advertisements. No advertisements have been required to report adverse reactions and other findings in the guidance provided with such free-selling agents. Also, when you come in and plan to buy drugs, you don't have anything in a drug store, which side effects they may have, nothing. There is no advertisement, there is no such thing. The consumer, if he thinks he needs a free drug, simply needs to buy it, he needs to open the packs and see if he can take the medicine by reading the instructions. Is it not reasonable, then, that rather than considering the fact that we should not advertise the product, we do not mention the side effects in advertising, in printing media or on television? At the very least, we are informing the consumer who goes into a pharmacy and buys the medicine about the possible side effects that can follow. Is it not greater and better for consumers than not to do anything and to let the consumer buy something that he later finds out that he cannot take advantage of? Perhaps there is one line of instructions that follows: If this works for you or the other, do not use this medicine. However, the medicinal product is supplied without prescription. I think it would be closer, if we were to talk about consumer protection, to make more detailed demands on what is to be presented in advertisements than to plan to fail to allow TV advertising to appear as a short wink. But if there is a reaction, the advertisement takes longer, it becomes more costly, and we don't know how many are ready to go into it. I think consumer protection means that people are shot to say more about the medicine, but less than they intend to fall into the trap of saying: This drug can only be advertised in printing media, not on television. A respectable president. I'd like to ask the highest, too. Ministers like what? paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir did: Why is it not simply a re-evaluation of the product ads since the Committee thinks it is time to do so? Has there been any contact with the National Competent Authority or personnel there the idea of allowing simply ads to be allowed and on prescription medication? It would be interesting to hear from the highest level. Minister on that. A respectable president. This is an improvement because the printing media alone receive the advertisements. I don't see that consumer protection is forbidding such TV advertising. I reiterate what I said before, I think consumer protection is asking the one who promotes more information than the other.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u45	A respectable president. First of all, I want to thank you for the discussion that has been conducted here. She is, in many respects, just as expected. These are questions you have been wondering about this matter, naturally. The reason this case is happening now, so I answer immediately, is primarily because the system has thrown it between them for a number of years. To me, this is a relatively simple change. I have not seen any such grounds for making such a scene between the media, and I have not been given any reason to take on one media, one way to spread information, beyond another, forbidding the photon mediums or television to advertise the freest drugs, I have not had any explanation. It is only natural to ask why a complete review of the medication laws or such is not being made, that is, in preparation. I assume that in 2016 we will present a bill for new pharmaceutical laws. I simply didn't think it right to wait for that work with the change. In view of the discussion on what information might be presented in the advertisements of the medicinal product, if this is the case, it must continue to be mentioned in the publication of both the manufacturer's name and the name of the medicinal product, the main indications and contraindications for the use of the specific product. I actually sum it up, so I think that the current law on these advertisements simply violates consumer rights to get information if I take it on that side. I haven't figured out any reason to limit it there. While we allow advertising on the free-selling drugs, I feel alone that we allow it in all the media. This is the reason why the transfer of this case is primarily to avoid limiting the scope that those who bring it in and who want to sell to advertise their products, promote information, and, like, for consumers to access the same information. I thank you for this discussion, and I expect the case to go to a committee, and it will stir up reports from the different stakeholders in this connection, including consumers. But I would like to mention it right at the end, for information to those who have participated in this discussion and would like to monitor this matter, that the Agency is monitoring the advertisements of the products and their contents. So there is an active monitoring of the already authorised advertisements.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u46	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 75/2013 of change of II. Annex to the EEA Convention (technical regulations, standards, testing, certification) and entry into the contract Regulation (EB) No 37/2010: 995/2010 on the duties of the operators who launch timbers and timber products, submit to the EU Regulation No. 363/2012 on the rules of case handling for recognition and reinsertion of recognition for monitoring agencies, as required in Council Regulation EB No. 995/2010, and EU Regulation No. 607/2012 on detailed rules regarding the framework of the dependencies and the frequency and nature of monitoring of the monitoring centres as stated in the Regulation (EB) No. 995/2010. In an effort to stop illegal woodcuts and trades, it is tried to minimize the risk of building timber that is illegally cut down or from such timbers to be marketed in the European Economic Area. Thus, there are restrictions on the introduction of wood and wood products that have been cut down illegally. In that case, companies selling timbers and timber products are made to ensure the traceability of the product. At the same time, there is a special surveillance system for operators that put timber and products out of wood for the first time in the market, recognition of monitoring agencies that can maintain and assess the safety systems, and monitoring by the competent authorities. Induction of Regulation EB No. 995/2010 calls for improvement, and the Environment and Resource Ministers are aimed at providing the bill for the current legislation. The rules will then be implemented in the form of a legislation supported by that law. The rules will most likely influence the producers of wood and timber, immigrants, distributors, and other operators who come to the trade of timber and timber as well as consumers who will be better informed of the origins they buy. There will also be increased government assignments. As the decision made by the joint EEA calls for a legal adjustment in this country, it was taken under administrative notice. Therefore, it is requested by the General's approval for the change in the EEA Convention in which the directive is to defuse the government in advance. I propose, my honored President, after this discussion is followed by this suggestion. Foreign Affairs. I'd like to, Mr. President, at the same time, to suggest that someone may not have much experience with Iceland in forestry and anything else, but I'd like to say that this is a very important case for Norway and the Norwegians, who have a very large industry when it comes to wooding and therefore have emphasized that this case is going to work out as quickly as possible but, of course, in accordance with all our rules and laws regarding these treatments.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u47	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for his history for the case, and I must now say that I like this matter better than many others at the highest level. A minister has been preaching during this service winter, especially one of them. I'd like to initially ask the minister how much this matters to us, if there's no illegal woodcut or sale on crops from now on, if there's any problem here. Then only about the origin marks, whether they lie to which country this is cut down or whether it specifys certain areas of which it comes from or whether it is some sort of ◯ Direct from an urban idea. But most of all, I would like to use this opportunity in this discussion and ask the minister of the court for the judgments against the Icelandic state of ESA yesterday or the day before. It was noted that there was only five sentences that I thought because of the loose production of European types here in our rights, if I've understood the report correctly. I'd like to ask the Minister as the custodian of the European Economic Area Convention if he wasn't concerned about these decisions and whether we're doing much worse by keeping the European Economic Convention than the other nations do.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u48	A respectable president. First, I'd like to state that I'm not aware of or have any information as to whether much is involved in illegal forestry in Iceland. I don't think there can be. However, it is, as I said before, but it is a fairly important case for the Norwegians who are party to this contract with us as well as we are well known. In this country, this will have a primary impact on those who import timbers, timber products, and the like, and some cost will likely be affected by surveillance, but this will be clearer when the bill is presented. I don't understand how much money it's going to cost. About the sentences as long as it takes. A member of the council mentioned it's true that five of the court decisions recently fell to the EFTA Court because we have not really been on the verge of implementing regulations as we should. There may be a number of reasons why we see other issues ending in court. It may be that we have too slow to pay in Iceland, whether it's the vacancy or the lawgiver. It may also be, which is not unlikely, that more such shipments will come to us, etc. The conclusion is, of course, that it is not good to let these matters go. Clearly, we need to introduce many of them, no matter what the muttering or humming. This, of course, results in effort from Iceland, possibly cost, etc. So I take the senator's words as an encouragement that we will do better. That's in harmony with our will. We've been at the slack when it comes to taking up these regulations. Of course, they are important for the competitive environment on which a Icelandic company operates. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u49	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for Answers, but just want to ask if the Icelandic government will receive much more sentences for the European Economic Area Convention than the other countries, i.e. Liechtenstein and Norway. We have far more judgments on this occasion than they do, i.e. Do we do much worse than they do in fulfilling our contract duties? Does that mean that there is no need for some action? Does a minister have any ideas about what can be resolved in this regard? However, because of these inductions in general and because we are dealing with yet another matter that really concerns our island very little - we have not had the problem, as the Minister rightly mentioned, which is an illegal woodcut and is what this matter is primarily about - haven't long come to realize that the power market that was involved in the European Economics Convention is now accumulated with all the many of the legal adjustments it has brought into existences far beyond the authority given to the Constitution? Is it not long since necessary to be approved for a change in the constitution that allows for some form of power in order to continue in this contract more fully than we have?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u50	A respectable president. I thank the senator again. I think they agree that there's been a considerable promotion of power, but if it's gone too much or if there's still something in it or how they say it, I'm not going to put it out here. We're familiar with the discussion that's been over the past few years, including... Our speculations are the most skillful of the judiciaries, and it seems to everyone on this matter. Regarding whether we do worse than others, more than we do, I remember that we are worse off than those who are with us on this journey. There are several reasons why, as I mentioned earlier. Of course, one of them is that we have been saving very much on government business recently and the Ministry and others involved in this matter, whether it is lawgiver or subsidiary, have had a very difficult time handling the project. Of course, we hope that it will not be overdone, for we must not forget that we are on this contract and have certain obligations, whether we all feel that they are good or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u51	Mr. President. By the Council of Parliamentary Directive, the Generals' warrants the agreement on measures to prevent, prevent, and eliminate illegal, undeniably, and unsupervised fishing signed in Rome on November 22, 2009. The Convention on Marine Operations is the first binding international fish contract since the 1995 fishing contract. The treaty is closely related to the work of the fishing agreement, but in Article 23. that contract is authorized and imposed upon it the obligation to use the jurisdictional rules to contribute to the effectiveness of international protection and management measures. The contract was taken into account and considered FAO non-binding instructions on state operations, which were the primary model for marine policy NEAFC (Norther East Atlantic Fishing Committee) and the NAFO (Northerwestern Atlantic Fishing Agency) as Iceland, as well as other coastal countries in the North Atlantic. Iceland has been on the lead of responsible coastal countries, along with other countries at the North Atlantic. In this country, there is a long experience with the use of government operations in an effort to facilitate illegal fishing. The contracts recommend the obligation of countries to use different governments in order to promote responsible fishing, such as shutdown to ships that are ◯black, of regional fishing agencies, treatments to drive a flag of responsibility in foreign ports, sentences of a set of minimal management requirements, monitoring measures, preventive measures, development support, and cooperation. Along with the efforts of the Parliament's odor proposal, the prosecuting and innovation minister will present the bill for changing the law on the fishing and the implementation of foreign fishing vessels in Iceland's fishing weekend. I propose, Mr. President, after this discussion, this proposal will be referred to. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u52	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalise the Community Services Act, with subsequent changes. In this bill, the plan is to explain further to you the specific laws of the law on the financial assistance of your community. For example, the bill suggests that a minister will provide guidance on financial support, which may include: value for financial support should be stipulated. Such rules are agreed with the European Union. The aim of this Regulation is to ensure a better agreement between rural rules, and it is therefore suggested that a minister be assigned to set rules for local administration when setting financial support regulations. In particular, it is stated that such guidelines should provide financial guidelines for rural areas on basic financial resources. Until 2011, the Ministry published guidelines for financial support annually based on an agreement with the European Union. Since then there has been a risk that the difference between rural partners is increasing in this respect. Despite their decision to provide financial support for the final amount, the rural community must still meet its goal in ensuring the social and financial security of the local community, as agreed by Article 1. The law. Therefore, I believe it is important that a minister be assigned to issue annual reference levels to which rural areas can be considered in the decision of a sum of money in their rules. I also think it's very important that those rules remain in good cooperation with the European Union. However, it is a law to allow rural society to establish rules for the effectiveness of those who are employed but who receive financial support because they have not yet been employed and are not entitled to sign unemployment or have fully improved rights. The main aim of this source is to enable jobseekers who have completed their improved rights to reassemble to a labour market and to prevent long term unemployment from leading to incorruption. The bill is intended to take a firm stand on the content of sources to enquire financial support, but there has been some uncertainty about this subject, especially since current legal requirements have come to their own years. Despite this uncertainty, the Ministry's informal survey has shown that most rural society has rules in its rules for financial support. The bill is also aimed at creating legislation based on cooperation between the employment sector and the local community services for the assessment of labour and services with jobseekers who have financial support in rural areas. It is my hope that the bill will lead to improving the services and support of the jobseekers who have fully used their rights within the unemployment system. This will hopefully lead to the return of more of them into the workforce and the inefficiency of long - term work. Two. which is quite detailed is given from a- to-e-age what effective jobseekers can be considered to frame this well off. It is suggested that the candidate be evaluated for professional skills before considering whether to provide financial support for efficacy. You will find out what can be considered as an active job search, which provides the same criteria as those used for jobseekers within the unemployment insurance system so that they are considered to be in an active job search. The bill assumes that only a reduction in monthly financial support will be permitted for two months. However, it is not limited to how often the same person can suffer from a degree of impairment, but it is assumed that a partner will reevaluate the workaholic if this is done more than twice. It is then suggested that monthly basic financial support not be allowed to be cut down on the rights of the community by more than half. However, if married couples or married couples share in financial support, it should be taken care that only financial support is made by the spouse who no longer meets the requirements of this arrangement. In the case of so-called sources, it is assumed that such payments are allowed to be canceled for up to six months at a time. However, due to the circumstances of children, such as the payment for leisure or school meals, and where local regulations include the implementation of children to the calculation of basic financial values, it is recommended that they be forbidden. The bill is employed in cooperation with the European Union. A similar bill has appeared before the Council, was submitted in 2009, on the condition of legalization for conditions. However, it wasn't as detailed as this is to be suggested and was ordered from the Senate bill under the motion of social and insurance committees, including due to reports made by the European Union of rural society. However, I and we at the Ministry of Health believe that by the changes made and by the way this has been done very closely with the relationship that their wish is being met, the comments made from the relationship were made and the majority of the opinions involved in the treatment. It was at the beginning of 2013 that the Justice Department's Department started working on a more detailed legal warrant for conditions that are virtually consistent with what is being proposed here. So the bill was part of a co-work project of the state, rural society, and the company of the labour market, work, and effectiveness of 2013, which had the primary objective of applying the jobseekers who had become full - time or remember that their unchanged rights within the unemployment insurance system are being restored to work market participation and that long - term unemployment would lead to incorruption. That bill, however, was not submitted to the General Assembly. I'd also like to mention that the Labour Office has had a project called Strigi, which has been closely cooperated with the local community. It took a relatively slow turn, but the rural communities that have just gone to the longest in setting up active employment policies in their social services have also been achieving the best results. I would especially like to point to the Country Society Hafnarfjörður who now received a special recognition for his project that has been called the Go-go. I've been going through the basics of the bill. It is my hope that with these changes we can achieve a better sync in the implementation of financial support between rural society and that our rural society can obtain permission to enable a group of jobseekers who are at most at high risk of permanently falling out of a workforce because of long-term lack of employment. In the past few weeks, and months I've had meetings with employees of the local community services around the country, I've met a representative of all the community services in the southwest corner of the largest rural areas, as well as in other parts of the country. Has been very interesting to hear how important it is to have a very effective cooperation between the employment and social services, how important this has been to these individuals, and how important it is to leave an attitude that may have been to the social services and financial support of the local community, and to watch the individual and cooperate with him and to assist him as best he can. I think the bill reflects the emphasis. After a discussion, I'd like to suggest, more distinguished President, that the bill will be referred to what. The welfare committee and the 2nd Environment Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u53	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Social and housing minister for this bill and for the speech. I think it's very important. I'd like to ask a few questions that wake up. When a person is about to set some minimum value for his community, which is basically the least for the entire welfare system, because of the intervention of the rural community after the pension and social security have paid him what amount are humans talking about? Has this been shown? What standard do they have? Are traveling abroad inside them, part of the standard of living? It's a car that costs 50,470. K. a month, part of that standard of living? What do people expect to be the minimum in society? I'm very pleased with the function. What I'm afraid of with these numbers is that when the minimum figures for the communities they'll take, it's at the same time a peak, they're not going to go up for it, not necessarily. Then it is with the activity that I think is very positive, holding the hand of those who are out of work - or those who just don't work, let's just say it in Icelandic, especially younger people who have adapted to the standard of living that the benefits give: What do you expect in this regard? What experience do humans with such activity have? I have a feeling that it can be very positive to encourage and tell people that those who do not work should not be able to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u54	A respectable president. I appreciate the questions from what happened. Senator. I think it is important to bear in mind both of these elements in the bill that it is being tried to look at an important decision in the human rights section and at the same time to ensure that we respect regulations involved in the Constitution of rural development. This is the case with guiding rules to the local community regarding financial support. It was found that when it was done, in cooperation to 2011, some societies followed very closely that direction, but other societies did not. I think it's very important that this law is in place, that the Ministry is being made to issue these rules annually, that we can follow it more closely with our communities, and published the names of non-computers. The same is true of the effective principle, it is also a principle, so the rural communities are free to use it if they think it is wrong. Those who have been working at the Ministry and out of the Ministry, including the welfare department, which has been particularly concerned with the poorest group, have talked about the definition published by the Haust Office, and is part of the social reference that has been defined as the low - income limit. I think we must be able to unite in the effort that no child and no Icelandic family should live under the low income limits mentioned there. The government's support, whether we're talking about alimony, child support, ensures that no family will go under the defined low income limit published by Iceland's Habitat and based on international guidelines.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u55	Mr. President. I appreciate the answers. Sadly, in regard to the standard of living and the poverty of children, students are borrowed for themselves, their mates, and their children. These people enter the statistics as very poor people, because they usually do not have very high income. Because they borrow money for the advancement, they do not have to earn much money but are investing in future education. I have repeatedly pointed out that loans needed to be made as provisions in that year, but that has not yet been done. These are all questions about poverty, and they turn our eyes away from the real poverty, since we do not see it. Also, low - incomeers with children may be much worse off than the poor with children who receive tax - free and non - income - related pensions. Then it is the question of equality, whether children in families with certain incomes, low incomes, have to accept a low standard of living because their parents are not desperate. This is what I think is very important to fix as soon as possible because I think there's a substantial discrimination and discrimination that can hardly resist a constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u56	A respectable president. I appreciate the tips from the senator. He has been very diligent in pointing out what is involved with the students; I think there must be something that Haust has to be considered and may already be considered, that this is guaranteed. However, there is a complete record of students'borrowing loans but then they also need to seek further support from their rural communities because of the circumstances between classes and other factors. According to sociologists, this is defined by the proportion of individuals who land below the minimum limit I mentioned, but low income limits are based on 60% of the median revenue of consumption units. The measures taken on consumption unit take into account the total resources of the home and the number of people involved. For example, two adults with two children need 2.1 times higher provision than the one who makes one to make a similar contribution. However, I am stressing that it is very important that we win these things in good cooperation with the European Union, i.e. What the amount should be. As the bill shows, I'm not just talking about the amount, I'm talking about the rules around financial support, and especially if you're talking about a person, but a married couple, or people who live together, the rules of the rural community have been connecting their individual circumstances.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u57	V.E.G. President. We're talking about a bill for changing the law on local social services. From 1991 onward, it was a turning point of law. The reaction to the law was quite long. There had been a period of over a decade before of social services. This did not happen, but in 1986 Alexander Stefánsson, the First Lady of Bjarnfredur, the president of the Council, led a commission to reexamine the legislation on the process. The main Aðalheiður was good for that. She was born in 1921. She was born in the country. She was one of 20 children who knew the poverty and the humiliation and cruelty involved. She also knew what it was like to have under others, and she cannot share the rights of those who were more wealthy. So she was quite successful in coming to that work. Then Jóhanna becomes the Sigurðardóttir of Social Affairs and continues with her work and decided to expand her project and establish legislation on local social services. It was finally accepted in 1991, the turning point - in - law code that made a big difference in attitudes. So I'll witness in a paper with that bill saying: Therefore, it should be viewed, not as unique regulations in this bill, but as contrary to official custody of individuals or groups. This includes helping the individual to gain the security and the conditions needed for him to live and thrive in a natural way in association with others. It's a sign of these songs that they're very beautiful, if you can say so, and well built up and clear. The spirit of the law is being reviewed in the paper, it is expressed in objective terms and such, and, as with a frame law, it is a fairly equating legislation. It should be taken care of for self - help. Respect for the individual and safety and the right of all to enjoy social services should be taken care of. So I'll start by that, this bill comes just like a thunder from the sky, and the lyrics of the law are completely in opposition to the law, and there's a whole different setting into the law with the regulations that are in the bill here. We have actually entered some unemployment insurance laws with clear responsibilities and rights, the ecstatic frameworks are completely abandoned in these laws. Then I'd like to come into what I haven't quite understood, why this real need is to make this law. I studied at Iceland's Habitat of crowds in the capital area at the age of 18◯70 in 1997/2013. I considered how many people lived in the rural areas of the capital. I took only the capital area to relieve my job, and there's a very large group of people living there. I took many out - of - work jobs, and I put many people in the same year's financial support. When I began to examine the processes I made a plot of this, it is evident that, of course, the need for financial support is increasing when economic problems arise. In 1997 we are coming out of a very difficult unemployment period. At that time, 4% of the people in the capital area were in financial assistance. In 2002/2003, we are coming out of the economy, not too serious, but 4% of the people are on financial support. In 2013 - I have 2013, not 2014, but I know it has only decreased to Reykjavík last year, I don't know about other rural communities - the ratio was 4.2.2%. So the results resulting from the collapse of keeping people above the lowest safety net are unbelievable. There is no abnormal condition. It's just the exact pattern we see when economic problems have been here. Then, of course, our lowest Internet will be tested. That's what they're supposed to do. The only thing that distinguishes the period from other periods is that this is the only time in which the unemployment rate is far higher than that of those who are in financial assistance in such trials. Let's keep this in mind when we talk about getting a bad start in this basic network. In terms of the reference, it is correct that this text should contain a reference. Then we read the report, on this note, in the law: A minister regularly provides guidance for local administrations on the implementation of financial support and financial resources for financial support. In this regard, it states that it is intended to contribute to a greater agreement between rural partners. Well, it's not giving a lot of orders to the local communities out there, it's to promote harmony, it's desirable, but then the communities have what they want, because there's nothing in this law that's binding them in any way. Then let's get some financial help. [[Up front.]] If an individual has to rely on the financial support he or she has as an individual having the right to give full financial support, he or she needs a very low income in order to have a right to her head and very small assets, he or she gets, if possible, 129,766 k. If we split it, it's 65 yous. K. In a month, as the bill allows. In Western islands, one of the world's headquarters and a rich rural society, this is 145,473 k. per month. Half that, that's 72,500. In Reykjavík, which lasts for the three best and that I think in the country, it is 174,952k. This bill allows half of that money for two months at a time, and special assistance may be cut off or halved for six months, but we see here that in various rural communities, it will have enormous consequences. We know that our rural communities are at a loss, and I would call for the Ministry of Health to take a little down to the stitches of what they're doing with that case. I think it should be the first job to do this. I'm going to state that when this bill was presented and discussed, there were a lot of stories and they were all very positive, although it was a great good news. As I went over, this is a change in the framework for social services and security rights of people in some sort of unemployment insurance law B. It's just about to create new unemployment laws in a new place. All right. For four years after a collapse, we extended our unemployment insurance to meet the big group and the heavy unemployment that occurred back then. Then it was reimbursed for the three years the law says it should be. What happened here last year? It was shortened for six months without consulting the labour market partners, these are labour market rights. So today, according to the bill presented here, employees should be entitled in two-and-a-half years to the unemployment insurance system A and then they would become less desirable in B's unemployment insurance system. The lawgiver did not consider this to be of little value to the local community at his time, but in a question I asked for a financial minister, it says that there are hundreds of millions of people in the state are running into these unemployment insurance. There's gonna be something going on in the rural areas, but this currently existing bill, they say, can lead to a U.S. $1100,150 billion. K. reduction of municipal expenses. That's what we're going to do for the poorest people in Iceland, the same time we're getting reports that there's an increase in the number of discrepancies in Iceland. In the world, there is a growing growth in the dissensions of wealth. Meanwhile, larger and larger groups are dealing with long - term inefficiency and the State is responding. I have news from both Sweden and Denmark. In Sweden there are 174 thousand people in some kind of case. And the government is paying off the pay of an enterprise by taxpaying. There's no problem. In Britain these conditions are addressed, the cruelty and extortation and perimeters that they cause and how they affect people's self - image and safety. Besides the fact that studies do not suggest that this has any special effect, they are primarily professional counselors, and you have services to help them get help. That's the key. It is possible to do so, and it is done in many rural areas. That's what's gonna do with the "Go" project. There's no need to be understood. It's hard. But that's what we're here to do for five years with a social worker. It's part of our study, and we're paying for it in Iceland's University, and I'm not going to hold social workers responsible on this. I only point out that we have class, which we teach to help people with self - help. There are so many things I have to say, Mr. President. I'm afraid I'm forgetting something, at least in this round. But I'd like to say, "We have a social problem here. " We have communities where inequities lead to discrepancies, leading to a modern - day class of poor people who do not live in security or where income security applies to others in the community. If we are going to solve the problem, we will not look at those who are victims of the problem but look for ways to get a hold on them. We go into the systems that are the problem and find what we need to do there before we put the whip on those who should, in particular, place the burden of the crash on. Mr. President. I've finished my case for a while. As mentioned in my case, I cannot support this bill. We will, of course, address it on a welfare committee, and hopefully we will be able to deviate from this path.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u58	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigríður Ingibjörg the daughter of Ingadóttir for the speech. It reflects the opinion that the senator has had a long time, and I'm sure it has been made when the Ministry of Health formerly worked on a bill in accordance with an agreement made with the local communities and parties of the workforce, when the workforce was cut short. What I wanted, however, was why. In her speech, a senator noted that there was no information about success. I haven't heard any discussion here at the council about it. It was not suggested at the time that the senator's party was with the Ministry of Health or the Ministry of Social Affairs to eliminate conditions that turned into the unemployment period. That was twice, as I mentioned in my talk, working on a comparable bill. Also, I have not had any information that almost all of our rural communities, except one that we have found, have some kind of requirement in their financial support regulations. It is also important to point out that the projects started by the United States and the Left Green at Hafnarfjörður and the Best Class and United States in Reykjavík have been very successful. The Labour Department recently published statistics that after the completion of reform rights there, only 27% had to seek financial assistance from the local community. In a presentation held by the European Commission at a annual meeting of the Work Programme, it was observed that about half of the people who had been referred to a labour agency in connection with the project had found work. [[The president calls.]] At least I felt very positive and happy with such rules. [[The president calls.]] At the same time, we are ensuring that the rules established by our rural society are in accordance with the Iceland Constitution. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u59	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of the inquiry. It's very good that she picks up conditions in the unemployment insurance system, because that's a whole new system. It's a system related to labour market rights. It requires that the person be active in a job search, but social services laws play a completely different role and provide the lowest security network for financial support in order to ensure safety and to have no connection with labour markets. In many parts of the country, communities use various methods. I speak here as a law against conditions being a way to get people on so-called activity. There is now a full reexamination of social services laws. I would recommend that a minister force the group to review what rural society is doing today for financial support, just over the conditions not everyone is sure of standing by law, to see if there is any reason to intervene and what to do in these matters. I think it's a normal job if people want to worry about it. I repeat and point out that financial support is now completely normal at the level of the economic decline in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u60	A respectable president. I just want to point out that in 2 st. is the rules that address financial support requirements directly to a person who is considered to be workable in part or full. These rules do not apply. It is not permitted to give financial support to anyone other than the candidate who is considered workable in part or in all respects. I think it's very important that the law makes it very clear that we are not going to give financial help to people who are not employed. The evaluation of a person's workability is then expressed by a consistent professional assessment of professional skills. I believe it is very important that the lawgiver send a clear signal that it is clearly forbidden to require financial support unless the applicant is properly recognized for part or for all part. I thank the senator for the tips of a team working on a review of local social services and legalizing the affairs of disabled people. Hv. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson leads the job in this regard. She's been doing really well. From there is a very clear message about it, such as why. A senator spoke of, no matter how important framework was in the community service at the time when she was a child. Change must be made. A balance is needed to ensure a specific basic service so that the duties of rural society are clearer but remain in a degree of flexibility and community freedom to provide a wide range of services. I consider these changes to be consistent with that. It reflects, as you can see in 1st paragraph. which I passed through, the importance of our respecting the regulations of the constitution and the autonomy of the rural society. I trust that, and I've seen that even though the senator disagrees, she has done it well on a welfare committee. [[The president calls.]] I trust that this too will be the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u61	Mr. President. Men who come to their community because they have no resources except to look for livelihood have, in a very number of cases, experienced severe rejection, experienced various types of traumas, and met many walls. Seting the function criteria, such as the problem of the individual, is, in fact, a state of laziness or arsonism in opposition to the spirit of the law on local social services. What needs to be done is to keep encouraging people. Some people just need temporary assistance, and there is nothing that calls for more; certain situations have arise that require temporary assistance. Others need a very good service to get back into the job market or to obtain a suitable means of living. All of us have the common desire to take responsibility for ourselves, to be there for others, and to influence society. Whether we are members of the local council, members of the local community, at work, or we need to consult our community because of the challenges we face. If I ever need such help, I hope I come to understand my situation, not the rod that takes away my livelihood. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u62	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a bill on changing the law on local social services, with subsequent adjustments, on the terms of financial support. I want to start by saying thank you. Ingadóttir A brief historical overview of the development or development of a law on local social services, which is, in my opinion, one of the most valuable legislation we have, is our foundation security network. It is the Internet that will catch us last time if we have been in trouble in life and ensure financial support. With the maximum change. The Department of Social Affairs for the Eygló Harðardóttir recommended here is being suggested to make financial support conditional. If the bill is accepted, which I sure hope will not be, and will try to do my part to argue why we should not agree, we will cut a great breach into the security network of our community. Notes on the law bill show what to do with the changes proposed here, which, among other things, would be allowed by presidents: ▪ On the other hand, a minister is assigned to provide counseling rules for rural society on the implementation of financial support, which includes: provides guidelines for financial support that rural society can apply to the sentences of its own regulations for the implementation of financial support. All right. I don't think it's bad in itself, and it's good that all residents of the country sit at the same table, i.e. The same basis is guaranteed for all regardless of where they live in the country. But I would like to direct the following question to the highest level. Minister, because I couldn't find it in the bill, how do you find that definition? What should be done when the minimum limit is created? How will we find out what will help us to set this reference height? I think that makes sense to me to see how the matter is fully growing, the basis behind it. However, regarding the purpose of these changes, according to the permission of the president: It is suggested that rural society be provided with a clearer authority to provide financial support for community services in the activities of those who are able to work and to receive financial support where they have not been employed. It's here that I feel like we've gone pretty far off track. It's here that my worries wake up. It also says in comments to the bill that the main goal is to enable the jobseekers who are fully absorbed or who will fully use their rights in the unemployment relief system to participate in a new labour market, thus preventing long - term unemployment that will lead to uncooperativeness. I agree with this. Of course, we should do all we can to make sure that people are not out of work for long periods of time. What, though, if a person is in a position to have been out of work for a long time? The Senate agreed a few weeks ago to reduce the unemployment reform period, so people may thus have less time to look for work and get to the job market than they had before. What if the efficiency measures don't work? I don't think it's wrong for me to impose even more on those in a more delicate position. A consideration of the bill continues to indicate that this can lead to improvement the services and support of jobseekers who have taken advantage of their rights in the unemployment system. I'm putting a big question mark on this because I'm afraid that when people are in a position that they've completed their rights to unemployment benefits and they're not yet made by work, we're setting the conditions for activity and with all the operating conditions to push it even further onto the edge of society when we should do more to pull it in, I don't know if you can tell the center, or into the community. I think that by taking the financial help off people, we're pushing them away, not pulling them in. In Denmark, the experience has been that people who have been out of work for a long time and because of the working conditions have fallen out of relief or financial support of rural society, these people just fell out of the community, out of all community involvement. It will really be part of a community where it has no money to support itself, and in fact, all resources will be banned. I certainly don't want to see this happen in our welfare society, which certainly has a variety of nudity. Of course we're supposed to fix them. This is where we're headed in an insane direction. As a result of the cost assessment presented in a follow-up card with the bill, according to the Ministry of Health, the changes presented here will have a positive impact on the local economy. Yes, it is easy to see that this must be true if financial support can be stopped. But I think it's pretty hard to solve my country's financial problems with this. We know that many of their rural communities are very bad reasons, but we should not solve their financial problems by making their population situation even worse, and as I traced their ability to participate even worse. So I would like to direct that question to the highest level as well. A minister on behalf of the Ministry of Health has been evaluated for the impact or consequences on the individual for whom the rights of reform are to be cut off or due to financial support. I think it's as important as it's looking at this a·mko·rosʹ, i.e. The impact on our rural society is that we also need to examine this ▪ μg, or the effect on the individual. This was shown in the case of the highest. Ministers not to insist or to limit financial assistance to those who are not fully employed. Yes, well, then I wondered, " What is the effect of this interaction? ' A good deal of work assessments have now been said about people's abilities, including the ability to work. There's a lot of wind. Councilmen have foretold that the future is to look to people's abilities. All right. But what if the changes presented here are approved as well as the work assessment, in what position does this put them to people who have limited energy but are partly able to support themselves by employment? We have a very recent example of this, where just those with reduced energy were laid off at the Bus house. I wonder, there's nothing necessarily certain that those people who find themselves in that position will get jobs within the age of unemployment improvement. Then they would have to rely on the financial assistance of their fellow members. What, then, when that time is over? So we're going to put these people in action when we're actually in the process of creating a system that says that because you have a part of your ability to work under one law, we're going to put some conditions on you because you can't get a job under another law. I think it's becoming a bit of a complicated line dancing that people might have trouble finding balance in. Now it's not certain that this change will happen, either of your operating ability or so, but I think it's important that we consider this, because we must be thinking about some existing law code and try to examine the overall conditions that people are placed in. Although my heart is so opposed to the changes proposed here, I still want to understand what is presented here and try to assess the effects the bill would have if it was accepted. So just at the end, I want to direct one more question to the highest. A minister who apologizes for perhaps a little indiscriminate. But concerning what is said in the bill that if a couple or a couple enjoy a mutual financial assistance, they should be careful that only the financial support of a marriage mate who no longer meets the requirements of 2. Cut. Then I wonder: " What if neither individual meets the criteria? How, then, should each be evaluated, and for what? Is it possible for couples to have a decrease in each other if for some reason they don't get the function...? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u63	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator before the talk and has to say that in many respects the senator does not feel as far away from me as might be from a part of the senator's talk. That's why I think it's so important for the committee to be very careful with every sentence in 2. g., I went through it earlier, and that the senator simply answers: Does the senator disagree that there is no need to force financial assistance other than the applicant who is considered to be a partial or total workaholics? I couldn't hear it from the senator's speech, but it would be nice to hear it. Does the senator disagree that there will be a limit to the assistance specifically intended for children under the rules of the local government? Does the senator disagree that when you watch an individual's skills as a workaver, you will be based on a consistent professional assessment of your ability to work? Does the senator disagree that this is being done in cooperation with the candidate and with the preparation of the individual progress programme in which the person is seated not only to be sent or financial aid properly but to have really sit down with people and a personal plan made by them? Counts 'em out. A senator's requirement for a job search is, in fact,, something that people should not be able to handle if they had gone through such a professional assessment: Having the initiative to look for work? To be prepared to work at any job a jobseeker is able to do according to work skills and is paid according to law and collective agreements and thus considered to be ready to attend job interviews? Applying for participation in job market activities, compare with Article 7. the law on labour market operations? To participate in active workforce activities, including study projects? In order to increase the likelihood of getting a job that would be appropriate? Then I would also like to hear from the senator whether she had communicated with a representative of the left - green city in Reykjavík and in Hafnarfjörður, where conditions already exist. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u64	A respectable president. So I start with the last question that was directed to me because it's the simplest. Yes, I've been talking about how I don't feel it's right to give financial help. There were a lot of teams at the top. A minister asked me if I didn't agree, but maybe just like what. A senator points out how to answer them. That is not to say that I don't want to do anything to promote jobseekers or people who for some reason are not active in a job market in searching for employment. Of course, this should be done; there should be all kinds of resources available. I think it's a lot closer to trying to find some sort of catalysing system that doesn't take the basics on people. [[Up front.]] See, it's not a catalyst, it's my penance system because people are being made up here. I believe that it should not be taken by people but should not find other ways to activate people. And yes, we are to do so, i.e. to activate people. That there's a long way between us, me and the highest. Minister of this matter, I think we agree on a number of social issues, but there's one huge gap between us when it comes to whether there's a head of dependent financial support. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u65	A respectable president. I believe it is urgent in the treatment of the council that, for example, the very ones involved in planning the Hafnarfjörður project and hearing how it has been installed. I also think it's important, because close ties are to the person who organized the teampower project, to get information about it. What we're here in my opinion to take the step in is to update the legislation in line with the positive changes that are taking place in the community service, where it is precisely not so that people can only get some financial strength, but work with the individual. You're looking at the situation. This is done, as suggested in the bill, the individual schedule to help the individual. Are you employed or not? If people are not able to work, they seek financial support for other circumstances, such as those found in the team service project, it said that up to a quarter of them were not really able to work because of alcohol problems, drug problems, or other major problems. But it came to the surface because people were working with them, not as it may have been here before for the collapse of the unemployment insurance system as well as for the social security system that the individual was not sitting down and telling us what we could do to help the individual. That's what I think we're gonna do. A senator agrees. I hope so. A senator is willing to watch with a positive outlook on the bill, which includes the frame of that thought. It is also important to remember that this is a source. But if a person decides to have terms in his rules, he cannot go beyond that, for example, it is not lawful to take all the help he or she can give to those seeking financial support. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u66	V.E.G. President. No, fortunately, the efforts are not being made to remove all the financial help from people. And yet, I wondered because it's such a huge amount of money that it would be so politically seen in some ways might easier tackle it that way, but what I was going to say is that we are, of course, making the individual's position even worse. [[Up front.]] Hence, it is not a good way, of course not. We're supposed to do an individual plan, because I think that's exactly what people for some reason have been in underactive need for a long time. But if people don't make minimal progress and half the financial support of rural society, how much less than what is needed for minimal progress, the steps will be so heavy to just get involved in the working conditions set here. [[Deployed:...nor...]] If people refuse to take the help... [[For example, consider: What kind of song is this?]] Yes, but people are in a situation where it is so difficult to make them feel that they are acting in some way. That is why we should not take the help out of it, so we're going to force it into action. I don't think this is how it works. I think we should call for very detailed information about what it is that works to get people to function in the community because that's what we want. With the conditional financial aid? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u67	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir For a fine talk, the Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir I don't agree with what she said, but thank you. The minimum wage for VR and Unit/I is now approximately 214,000. That's why they pay in the pension fund 4% and 1% in a union, so there's only a little more than $200 left. What Reykjavíkurburg is offering today without condition is 175,000. In this case, you can choose whether you want to stay at the expense of getting a job by 25 of yours. K. per month. I'm asking why. A member of Parliament: Could it be that people who can work should accept only financial help from all the others who work? For it is all paid for by the taxpayers, by the strangers. Could be that. A senator would like to have it so that people who can win will receive 175,000. per month without condition? Mrs. President, I've been hearing that there's a black job in Iceland. There are some things that work black. It's not the monopoly when you start talking about activating people, they suddenly stop coming. This also needs to be taken into the picture. Because black employment works well with financial support, where there is no need for work or work. This, then, is the question of theories or research that have shown that people five months away from the job market for various reasons, never working more, 80% of them never work again. That's what I'm talking about. A senator knows about this? Still, does he not want to do anything about those who are receiving financial support? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u68	V.E.G. President. Hv. paritaprevir Blöndal H. Farmer spoke of accepting employment at the expense of paying, and he rightly pointed out how low some wages are. My simple answer to that point is, of course, we need to increase the minimum wage so that people can live properly from their salary. Yes, I am fully aware that there is no need to be outside a job market for a long time so that the chances of people never working again become enormous. That is why we need very effective resources for people who lose their jobs in those five months, but most important, when you are over that dangerous time. I can fully describe it as my personal experience how much effort it is to enter the workforce after a long time. That's easier said than done. I know and I know that. I think if I had been in the position of living far below all the poverty limits, it would have been even more difficult for me. To participate in the community, such as in a job market, you need to dress modestly. It costs money. It takes an intention to go and do something by ourselves, that is, we should not take people away from them by taking them all of financial help. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u69	Madam President. I'm trying to figure out what. A senator trying to figure out that there may be nothing very far between us and between us. A senator and a chief. Minister. In other words, she wants function. She doesn't want to leave the people alone. Wait a minute, isn't that what the bill says? That those who are skilled - we're talking about them, we're not talking about those who can't do anything. We are talking about those who can win, and why should they not work for their advancement as others do? Just that leaving them and doing nothing, they just pay financial support without condition, just a few young people, maybe 19 years old, who don't want to work, Madam President, I'm afraid to say that, or is working black. Is it not good to speak it up and therefore point out that work is to be done like the rest of the society that can win?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u70	V.E.G. President. Whether or not I'm close. A senator or mine and a chief. Minister - yes, we agree on that, I think, that we want to promote and encourage action. But we differ in the ways we should use to get people to function. So I say it again and again, I think the way to get people to function is not to set the conditions that make it so that if they don't follow them up to a point and stick it will be half, so that they can be exactly maintained, financial help taken from it. I think that in order to get people to work, they need financial assistance, so they can live a dirty life off her, pardon her, Madam President, because that's when people are mentally and physically fit, so to speak. Unfortunately, I just seem like, as I think it, a lot between us, especially when it comes to considering how to get as many people in our good community to be involved and not to torture people into situations where they can't do anything, it can't be involved, it can't be part of. That way we won't be able to get anything out. That's just how we create deeper problems.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u71	A respectable president. It is safe to say that there is an interesting discussion here on this subject and questions asked when people speak about it - there is a fundamental difference, as I believe, that it was a fine discussion. The last speaker. I would like to start by reminding them that we Icelanders have validated several international covenants, including Europe's Social Convention, the United Nations Children's Convention, and then the United Nations Convention of Human Rights. These covenants are to emphasize the security and well - being of nations. I don't think the bill is all of it. We're here talking about the worst in society. A study of the 2010 Red Cross shows that jobseekers, whether married to children, single parents, immigrants, children, orphans, or young people, lack the opportunity. We also know that there are prominently bad conditions in this area that were before collapse, but it hasn't improved in many after a crash, it's the ones I was here listing earlier who have been jobless and desperate, and those who accept financial support only have to rely on that income. There is a tendency to view this group as a problem that needs to be solved instead of looking to this group with a view to helping him up at his feet as suggested here, I'm just going to go in on it afterwards. We all agree that it is a very important part of us as individuals. It is not just the possibility of having a salary to support yourself or anything else but it has a powerful effect on our sense of identity, can affect our health, and affect our whole family. We know that if unemployment is long - term, it can lead to various forms of social difficulties, and this is likely to be a talk about not getting caught in a poverty trap and trying to find a way out. That's one of the things we tried to do here during the last term and we need to proceed. It's a test at the highest. Social and housing minister for that, looks like it. When people are unemployed and have to accept compensation, whether they are unemployment improvements or the help of rural society, they are difficult to take, especially for those who have never had to experience them before. There are so many things that come into it; everything the family does, relationships with other people, participation in other events, i.e. Being part of society and culture. It is not enough for us to decorate or to have food and shelter; it is also the need to have money to be an active member of society and to have a decent means of living in society. As to the role of social services, the President's permission says: ▪ The aim of rural social services is to ensure the financial and social security of the population and contribute to the well - being of the community on the basis of cooperation. According to the law, individuals can seek financial assistance in their community, and when financial problems arise, they can be paid for financial problems, family difficulties, day care of children, and housing problems. In the bill, I feel like we're in violation of this responsibility and I don't think it's done. There are some things I just want to get in. This includes, as mentioned earlier, this set amount of material support. Hv. paritaprevir Pétur H. Blöndal made this a subject of whether this could result in the highest financial height. Because it's not the same with your rural society as it is very different, you tend to, as it is very low, to think that it can be the case. Another thing that I think is interesting in the bill, and in regard to this impairment, which I am very opposed to, it is that first there can be an issue of up to two months, and then, still more serious, that there are not really any limits to it, as the Supreme One does. A minister came in here, how often a person can get hurt. Of course, the subject must be evaluated with skill, but the same thing is, in fact, unlimited. These were poor compensations. The head of the welfare committee went over earlier, that's not high numbers. If cut off, they may be halved, and they may be between 60 and 70 fars. Well, then every man sees that it's not a means of living that anyone can do. In 1st. is referred to as convergence between rural society. These panels are to be covered regularly. Farmers always have access to updrafts, etc. I think there's improvement in the control of the budget, but as I said before, it's a concern that they can get too low. Then there's this eternal present on whether financial compensation should be as high or as low as it is, i.e. that will encourage people to go to the job market, of course, but the minimum wage is very low. I wanted to make another major subject here because we know that these people who live under these provisions are very bad. Two. it is said that people go through a very rigid frame, receive individual guidance, that it is followed, etc. Instead of setting up this negative sign, which is being done here by suggesting that if people don't accept it, the benefits will be impaired, I ask: " What would it be wrong for us to make this choice? There are no doubt some of them, and here are some examples. But what would it be against us for this help and for these measures, i.e. that the rural communities do so, without cutting the benefits? This should, of course, act as a catalyst. People must, are they forced to accept these options, but is it good to force people to do something like this? There are several reasons why people who are assessed by some authority may find it difficult to get started after a certain period of time. Many things can lie behind them. I think we're supposed to be looking for this activity to turn out to be without creating a degree of impairment. The bill is to take care of increasing cooperation between the workforce and the Social Services for this evaluation, and I don't think it's wrong. Of course, we have resources that may vary the length of pleasure, but we still have experiences, as mentioned earlier, from the path to the question of a father and a father. I wondered when I read this, because there's talk of the premium in cost estimate, that when the government deprecises, relating to the budget, cutting the unemployment period -- I don't know if these people would disappear. Where did those who command this government think that there would be people who would disappear? You may think of this as a countermand because your rural society protested, saying that this shortening would be 500 million. K. detriment for rural society. They're suggesting that savings come from the local community. At the same time, there should be an increasing number of counselling within the social services between 25 and 30 persons. I just want to increase these people regardless of the fact that benefits will be reduced to achieve their goals, i.e. to make people more active. In this context, I want to remind you that I have received phone calls and e - mails - I don't know about any other senators - from women of a certain age who are experiencing it for the first time in my life, who don't want to be out of work, and I don't get a job because it's a teaching board. It's not people who don't want to work. So we are dealing with problems related to unemployment. It's not just that they don't work well at work, or that they get in the money so long that they don't have any other means of getting stuck there because they don't have to start. There are these things too, and women least are getting into trouble. They may have been men who had it first after the crash, and we know that story, and they went abroad, but it wasn't because of the social security number, perhaps because the sector was drawn together and changed. Here the assignment is quoted in Hafnarfjörður, referring to the fact that the cause of withdrawal has not been analysed. It would be interesting to see it done before taking such action. Here is a hint that this may reach a fifth of the candidates. I think this is one of the things we need to analyze. At the end, I want to go into effect, what interests should be guided, and what sort of association we are. One scholar has said that it is possible to find out that the most righteous solution to the issues in general is that each individual puts himself in the place of all concerned, i.e. By imagining that we could find ourselves in a difficult situation and that we could become under it. This could lead to our reaching a righteous conclusion on the matter. I am not born with a gold spoon in my mouth, but I have, fortunately, not to live in poverty. When you know people who have lived in poverty and know how they affect people, as I said before in the widest context, I think we're cutting down the knee, that's the poorest people we're talking about here. I don't think there's something we should go out with. I'm asking the highest. Minister: If the person doesn't think it's possible that it could lead to success - if he registers with the Social Services, he is falling off unemployment benefits, and he's got it going to shit, he's going to have to have it fucking shit, forgive the language, to get these benefits - in the majority of these people if he's enrolled himself, he's offered up these interviews and treatments and all that has happened to him, except if he doesn't accept it, his benefits will be impaired. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u72	Thank you. A senator for the speech on this matter. After listening to a talk, I want to reiterate what I said. paritaprevir Árnadóttir Þóra Auradóttir, I believe, is not really that far apart between me and the senator in terms of the matter. This is shown on page 22. 8 On the bill that Reykjavíkurburg has, for example, already, in 3 gr. The rules for financial support, the legislation on the decrease in base height for non-employers who have been evaluated for employment opportunities. Counts 'em out. A senator that the principles mentioned in this article are such that people who have been evaluated should not be able to meet these requirements? Hv. A senator asked various questions about the results of the work being carried out. A recent study of the results of the various services it has offered was published by the Work Programme, and we are talking about this group who would be fully respected or partly able to enter it. It has been shown that these provisions have yielded very good results, and a great joy has been experienced by those who have participated in them. A recent study was published regarding those who lost their right to reform, what happened to those individuals. It turns out that the more part has got a job, and since then the closer cooperation with rural society has been developing, including Reykjavíkurburg and Hafnarfjörður, on what can be done to help people who have been helped by financial support. The survey found that 27% of those who lost their right to reform during the past two years had at some point sought out the financial assistance of the local community. It is also interesting that these figures reveal that they are talking about younger ones, men, and that they live at home with their parents. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u73	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. V.E.G. A minister once more speaks of us as being brief, and certainly we all want to help people to function, it's not about that, it's about the conditions. In this bill, it's about the conditions. I don't necessarily agree with the city of Hafnarfjörg or Reykjavík in this context. It's one thing to be able to fulfill any conditions and be able to mark them in a box, if you count your work permit. On the other hand, if you're employed and you don't accept a certain job, you're down to about half. I wondered that too, because of the highest. A minister came here to the operations and employment agency, and other things like that, they no longer have the right to unemployment improvements, and they are coming to the countryside, how much of the people who have them, because she spoke of how successful the treatments had worked, which went through this at a labour agency? We're talking about expanding cooperation with a work agency in an effort to get people to work. Now there's a plan. How many have gone through them without it? Or could they refuse? According to the law, they should not be able to do so because you have to have an active job search. I wonder, if people haven't been put into some particular measures there, or if for some reason they haven't been able to activate it, why would they be different in the community? What changes? Like I say, I think it's about methodology. We all want to help people work, but it's about impairment, that's what it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u74	A respectable president. I'd like to ask you why. A senator: Does the senator disagree that there are clear regulations forbidding financial assistance to those who do not meet the qualifications for work? Is the senator also saying that she disagrees with 1st? of 76rd. The republic's constitution, which says that an individual's right to social assistance was restricted to those needing it? We note that the person who can provide enough for himself was not expected to have the right to be given such help. With reference to this condition in the 76th st. The constitution will, therefore, be considered to refer to a grammatical argument, we're saying here, putting this frame around this. And the same premise was that effective search conditions were set out on the right to unemployment insurance. I would like to remind you that in 2012 the then state of government, which was adopted by the senator's party, gave rise to increased terms of unemployment insurance and felt completely justified. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u75	A respectable president. V.E.G. The minister did not answer the question I suggested, i.e. whether they could get people to work without the need for these impairments. [[Up front.]] Of course, it doesn't all work out, I don't expect it, any more than this does, it doesn't work for everyone. Some may fall out, as we have seen here, because of other circumstances, as mentioned in Article 4. But that does not change these negative signs. I don't want people to go into the financial support of my unit because they don't want to work. I don't want to believe in people in general that they do. Therefore, I feel that the negative signs given here are not of the good and that the conditions of this kind do not promote them to people that they go back to the job market. [[The president calls.]] Of course, there are black sheep in this, like all other sheep. [[The president calls.]] Where aren't they? They're here at the council, too.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u76	President. Like the senator who gave an excellent speech here, I have a comparable concern about the policy of this bill, the policy of forcing people whose numbers fall deeper into a black hole. I thought it was interesting to hear that it was the highest. The minister did not speak of those who did not do business. What happened to them? What happens to people who don't get any help? It is referred to the Mothers' Support Committee, referred to the church, and referred to other members who are to care for their progress, the administrative provisions that we have toward one another, or to those who cannot provide for themselves. I wanted to ask the senator what she thinks will happen to these people. For example, are people being pressured into eating disability? Is that a solution? I know that once people have been out of work for a long time and they don't see a chance to get a job, it's like the world's collapse. I want to know if there have been some means of building up people who have lived with chronic unemployment, and then I'm talking about real building up instead of putting over them another threat of having a chance of getting money to eat. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u77	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I mentioned this in one of my speeches in connection with the budget, and I also discussed it with the Ministry of Health, raising the money for rehabilitation. It was brought about a change into the bill, this way with the second orders, because this discussion is obviously up to a considerable extent, i.e. that those who are failing on unemployment or who have been on it for a long time are going into disability. It has been part of the rehabilitation process that put people in the way that they are going, and it can lead to the fact that the person is in a position to become an invalid or become an invalid. But that is the tendency, and we know it, it is too large a group of women of the best age who look for it in many ways. In many respects, as a member of the local government, I understand the idea of wanting to limit this aspect of business, and I don't expect my fellow Americans to want their citizens well. I think that's got to be my suggestion. But what I want is to be able to see it happen. I'm quite aware that not everyone will be working, but I'd like to see that people are being instructed in all the help they need, that if they get their own interview when they come and enrolled in financial support, they'll get into some process that leads to the right route, whether out of the community or out of the social system and into the health system or what it is, but they're not supposed to have to cut it down. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u78	President. I see this in direct context to the breakdown of unemployment, which came like a battle into the lives of people with ten days'notice around the New Year's Eve. I strongly objected that I knew this would happen. It's hard enough to get community assistance from the locals, it's just hard enough. A person cannot be married to a person who has some small income; he cannot have a home, he is not entitled to help. Now I am taking over a responsibility that I find very serious. I know of both women and men who are in a certain age and who don't get a job even if they do everything right. They apply and applied, and they do not get a job. What are we going to do with these people? Shall we eat it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u79	A respectable president. They're supposed to be helping these people, they heard called here from the hall, if the person, as I said before, wants to work, is able to work, but can't work because the Socialist says something. Effectiveness should be directed to the job. It has also been stated that rural society, as I recall, was Hafnarfjörður, or someone almost created jobs on his way to get people to work. It can do so without cutting its benefits before or something like that. At least there is much to do before this route. As I spoke in my speech earlier, these people did not disappear. We knew exactly, and we talked about it here repeatedly. That's why you feel that this is a minor action against your rural society to make them feel at peace because they've called for it. Admittedly, they have called for this option, even though there are differing opinions within the local community, such as anywhere else. Not all local representatives agree on this route. As I've said, I'd like to try a lot of other things before I'd let myself do something like this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u80	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his good speech and enlightenment. Where it is. A senator on a financial committee would like to discuss the big picture with her. You see, there's one thing that's bothering me about all this, and it's that this government has decided to cut down the unemployment process, which means that more people need financial support from their communities. Now it's getting tight, with this bill. The minister here and members of the administrative body also state that this should encourage action. At the same time, and I pray them why. A senator going over it with me, has also been trying to reduce the financial resources to a labour market strategy on government roads. I just want to talk to her about the interaction there, whether she doesn't think there are some contradictions. If we look at the bigger picture here, this is a short period of time that can be supported by people without employment. We know there's nothing wrong with these people. There's something wrong with the job market, e.g. About women of mid-age age. It's harder for them to get a job, and that's where we can squeeze them. There are no tools to hold these people or to monitor them after they fall out of all help. I wanted to ask you what. A senator would think that if we are going to go this way, we would not build one of such tools.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u81	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. We discussed a considerable amount of this workforce because I think most people were surprised to learn how short they were about to shorten the unemployment period. I noticed that this was the direct result of cutting down to the loss of the worksheet fund, but the highest. A minister has tried to reason on this. Then it was tried to ease matters a little, but it had been decided by the short - term unemployment period. At the same time, a considerable amount of money is added to the rehabilitation money because people have grown in abundance there and especially in best - age women. I asked if it wasn't more expensive resources, because if he's of that age, he gets a lot more child support, and the answers were: Yes, of course, it's more expensive resources. I didn't think it was inconsistencies. I've had a conversation with a woman who's in her bad class, has been in work instead of a job, and the company is putting up the latrines, and she can't get a job. She could not imagine registering for the financial support of the local community, feeling that it was so humiliating. But she said: " What am I supposed to do? And that may come as a matter of course. A senator said, it's this about creating some frame. V.E.G. A social minister may answer this question, as she makes this discussion, whether it has been done or has considered that there are tools around the people who have lost their job and who do not enter the social services.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u82	A respectable president. I feel that there are contradictions in this regard as to what people say and then what they're doing. It is said that these are done to motivate people to function, but at the same time, they are being cut down on projects and on a workforce. Then, too, you wonder what happens when such a bill is submitted. If human efforts were to put more energy into job market resources and it was about that, i.e. some posetati approach, you might look a little different. But this is not the case. A review of the bill shows that this will save large sums of money to the communities. I find the point of this all to be that the committee needs to examine more carefully whether the matter should not be approached by a posetti so that people also feel uncomfortable or uncomfortable, or that they feel embarrassed to get financial help, rather than to know that it is all right because they have a right to do so in certain situations and so look at it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u83	A respectable president. I was wondering about my community earlier, the cost of my rural society and all that. I'm gonna ask you if it's done? Is this another challenge to the government because the decrease in unemployment period is increasing the cost to rural society? As we know, so the rural communities strongly objected. Here, rural society should save money, but at the same time it is assumed that there are between 25 and 30 persons, a national social worker, in order to accomplish this, i.e. these activities. I would like to hire these people, but I wouldn't want them to pay for what is taken of those reformers, for that is, in fact, an increase in the cost of the cost to the people of the highest salary. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u84	A respectable president. I must admit that I am impressed with the discussion taking place here, and I would like to participate in a discussion about Article 2. which, by permission of the president, is in a clear, decisive state: It is permitted to establish financial support rules according to Article 21. the requirements for active job search as an individual eligible for partial or full employment should be met in order to obtain basic financial support and/or financial support for specific situations. It is not permitted to give financial support to anyone other than the candidate who is respected partly or completely qualified. This is 2nd floor. The bill, the person who comes to the local community for financial support, is regarded in part or in part to be accepted, others are not. If an individual seeking financial assistance in a rural society is able to work in part or completely, why should he or she not be activated and helped to get a job? What's wrong with that? We talk about being an active member of the community. Active members of the community are not the ones who do nothing and stand out. They're trying to get people involved, and the person is fully employed or in part, and it turns to a different end that they should be required to participate in functional measures to get financial assistance in a rural society. I'm just willing to admit that I'm not going to get the approach that's been here for this additional article in the bill. Economic support is not a compensation, and has never been considered a benefit. It helps people who are needed for some reason, usually for a time, most of them in the long run. Because I know people, as mentioned in the discussion, certain social workers are educated to perform such roles. For most rural groups, social advisers help and cooperate with those who need financial assistance in rural areas. It is assumed in this bill to increase their numbers in order to provide the greater and better service this article provides. Is that bad? No. Is it bad that people who are fully employed or in part are personally assisted by local community adviser to get into the job market? No. Is it wrong to accept financial support if people refuse to do so? No, I don't think it's wrong. Therefore, once again, I say that I do not understand the discussion taking place on this article. But I'd like to think about 1st bit. which says, by permission of the president: In agreement with the European Union, for example, for the implementation of financial support as well as the financial resources used for financial support. Very much. A minister, when it comes to these community - control guidelines, takes into account people's different habitats, where they live in the country? Will such factors as rented housing, which may weigh in one place more than others, really matter? What if people have a home that could well be, even if they have to go to a local community temporarily for financial support? It is not denied, however, that having a temporary situation in which to live does not mean that it has a home. Very much. To some extent, a minister takes these factors into account? We can take house - to - house heating costs for cold areas of thermal heating in other areas. Very much. A minister simply posts a specific amount throughout the country? It's like the highest. A minister then said that it would be possible to observe and show in a way that rural communities look to these guiding rules. I'm a little bit thinking about it because the rules are guidance. A country's autonomy is in place, but because the rules are instructors, rural society can take them into account, and as previously said, some may consider the amount to be maximum, but not minimum, it may be published somewhere that rural society behaves like this. Is the punishment of the Ministry's publication a demonstration showing how communities take into account or follow the guidelines under which this is being used because it is not conditional? If the highest. One way or another, a minister has pondered these matters, and I would appreciate it if he would respond to that question when speaking again.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u85	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Ragnöm Ragnheiður's Ríkharðsdóttir for her talk and come up here to answer the questions she was pointing at me. As stated in the bill, these guidelines are expected to be published in consultation with the European Union. I think it's important when we make out the rules that we look to, among other things, the great work that has been done in the Ministry on Drug Administration for a home in Iceland. One of the hardest challenges for that group was to evaluate it from the cost of living, for it is so overwhelmingly different. We've had to give specific instructions to our communities, since two societies can run a community service together, but each with a different rule of support, even though their communities are in many ways comparable. We have not been able to find the reason and have been asked to support these various rules, for in fact, the cost should be very similar for people who turn to the local people whom I mention as an example. We have issued counseling regulations for the hostilities or the hospice searchers to the countryside, and that's where we've been watching the rules of the city of Reykjavík. At any rate, I had the information that when the Ministry issued instructions, it was mostly Reykjavíkurburg that followed them with direction from the Ministry. So I think that these points mentioned by the senator are one of the very important things that the health committee does care about and give me tips, if the conclusion remains, as I really hope it will be, on which point we need special attention. As the senator said, circumstances may vary, but they may not be different. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u86	A respectable president. It's kind of humorous with answers and answers because the one listed here directed a inquiry to the highest level. A minister she answered in reply. Senator Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir says, "Thank you very much, very much. Minister, for bringing this information. I think it is necessary to consider what is called a consumer policy and what is in it and whether it may be taking into account other factors, such as housing costs, as the highest cost. Minister mentioned. He weighs a lot of weight depending on where people are standing on the land, if we can say so, and it can matter. It is a pleasure, however, to consider the different conditions in this country in terms of housing, house - to - house expenses, and other matters that will matter when it comes to work. Secretary to guide local government regulations. I want to pray to the highest. A minister to accept only what I feel is like a line of punishment to me when the rural communities are being brought together and whether they follow and obey the instructions that are merely a guide but not a lawgiver's condition if this is achieved in this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u87	A respectable president. What I meant was, I was looking to the baseline values for the consumption criteria. í first talk spoke of what is defined as a low - income limit. The Strategic Watch was to present suggestions on helping the group under low pay limits in Iceland, which is more than 9%, where I believe the criteria are around 170 thousand. I think all of us can agree that living on that amount in Icelandic society can't be easy. I don't think I've thought of this as a picket line. I'd rather it was information. In fact, it has been the thought of the committee, who has been working and suggested that a new administrative agency in the area of social services and child care, look to what, for example. The surgeon has been doing things in the medical care department, setting a set set of quality standards when it comes to these important aspects of the welfare system. We view it as a time for research and assessment of how services are performed, not to punish, but to guide and assist and direct in the direction we feel it is best to go. The results of a nursing home were appearing, and it has often been difficult to discuss the following days when such results are negative to the nursing home. But I know that those serving there have viewed this as an aid to doing better, and it is also for social workers, to realize when they are doing very good and when they can do better. This is information that just isn't on the table today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u88	A respectable president. I'll agree with the highest. Minister that if this leads to the evaluation of the quality of the services they provide at any time in this sector, which may be related to the level of education and culture in each and only rural society, if there are signs that indicate how the inhabitants are service and what the quality of the service is, it may be of good quality. No one in itself knows whether the service is bad or good unless there is a measuring device that can be seen and used to compare to get the best out of what we have from each time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u89	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ragnhri Ríkharðsdóttir for his speech. Clearly, we do not share a clear view of these matters. I went back to over the statistics of the percentages of people aged 18 in the capital area who were receiving financial support and that it had been 4% 1997, 4% around 2003, and currently 4.2%, respectively. This is what happens because there is always a certain ratio that needs to be relied on. It's not the same people, it's a relatively high concern on financial support, since these are not compensations, as the senator noted, they are a relief plan, and people in general are relatively short in a difficult situation if they need to accept financial support. Now we see that it's the same rhythm as these are so many because they need a job opportunity. This has been reduced to Reykjavík from year to year, and I hope that other rural communities are shrinking, too, and they tell us that people are getting a job. Is there anything in particular that calls for this change in the light that it seems to be statistically just what happens after economic contractions?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u90	A respectable president. My personal answer is yes. Yes, I feel that when people apply for financial assistance in their rural society and are fully evaluated or partially employed, financial support should be conditioned in one way or another. If, under such circumstances, people must refuse to participate in such activity, it must be necessary to dig for the reason that a responsible person refuses to cooperate with local social adviser in order to find work to provide for himself and to prefer financial assistance by the community. That's why I think that's a good approach. Like what? paritaprevir Ingibjörg Ingadóttir said that most people for a very short time need to accept the financial assistance of a local partner. The work with such individuals is to direct them into potentially health - related measures, if these are changing, into the health sector and even into disability benefits if the situation has become so bad. The others who are workable in part or full - time should be involved in the activity and, yes, yes. Senator, I believe this is the way to go.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u91	Yes, this is how we can have a different view, Madam President. When entering a community service partner, an individual should obtain the services and advice he or she needs. However, there will be an increase when jobs fail, and I find it normal to look at the end of which we create opportunities for people to be procrastinate without employment and somehow try to place them into jobs that they obviously do not have. We must remember that in most cases unemployment insurance is higher than financial support. Now the time had been cut short, so if I live in a city of Rhine and have been out of work for two and a half years, I will go instead of getting a full unemployment settlement that is nearly 180 thousand, down to less than 30 thousand. It was the decision of the Generals to handle the workforce's rights. Why are people in there? Of course, it has been workable. It has been required within the unemployment insurance system. I feel that a certain person's vision is given when people get into this system that we're not getting close in that way that they're probably trying to get out of something. It is in a situation where it could not be affected. Why don't we look at this as a temporary fluke, instead focusing on getting the work done that people can do? That's what the statistics say when they're there. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u92	A respectable president. The time came when we were going to wake up. paritaprevir Ingibjörg Ingadóttir Iggadóttir had agreed on this matter. Of course, our goal is to increase the quality of value and to improve the job situation so that as many as possible have a job. That is where we agree, and what needs to be the course may be involved. On the other hand, I say that not everyone who needs temporary financial support at the local community has been out of work for a while and so long. Other reasons may suddenly arise in people who do so. And while the people are fully employed or fully employed, some apply for financial assistance without having been unemployed for long periods of time because of the temporary circumstances that require them. When sick, they can play on the inside, while being guided along with how they can cope with these situations. I think things are important, of course, to increase the value and support of jobs but also to teach and support people for survival.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u93	A respectable president. I'd like to comment on the bill that's being discussed here, touching delicate matters and delicate ones. I think we can all agree on this, even though we may have different attitudes toward it in various ways. I approach this case because we have to look at the setting of conditions and possibilities for them in view of the overall situation in what we can call the public forwarding system. We also need to be equally respectful of people in need of financial support and the right to support the normal needs of fellow members of the country for some kind of conditions, which are not necessarily the highest standards. At the time, I gave a bill, which included a provision that gave the authority in this regard, which was not done at the General Assembly. I've thought about it a lot back then, and later, I've talked about it in many places. Many in the United States believe that this is not the way to go. There are also many rural areas where the Conspiracy is, or has been in more part, that have applied some of the conditions. This picture is far from simple. The key elements on this matter I think must be the context and the setting. First, I'm going to say that I like to see that the bill presented here contains some detailed provision that would cut off the warrant so that it is not open, unlimited, but that it is bound to a particular person in a particular situation; while restrictions are added that financial support can be limited to the candidate who is well-deserved and that monthly basic financial support is forbidden by more than half. Still, we need to look at this in the overall context right now. What is the overall context? As mentioned in this discussion, the expense of community assistance has increased, but it cannot be said that the number is out of harmony with what has been the case in the following economic failures in the past. It is also worth remembering that unemployment is a basic way to meet the need for unemployment. In 2006, transnational relations and parties in the workforce were saying that the unemployment period would last three years but that the system would be built on effective measures. It was on the part of the labor movement to agree that the operation would be the key to everything and therefore those who would not be involved in the efficiency of unemployment would need to be affected or removed. What has happened since then and put this matter into light is the decision of a greater part of the Generals at the end of last year to cut off the sudden unemployment improvement period by six months to those who had earned the rightness of that system. I also think it matters for us not to crash into conclusions about the nature of the problem or the situation. It is of interest to consider the statistics of those who receive assistance at Reykjavík, where there are a large number. It is generally said that the problem is so great because of young boys, but when you look at the group under 30 years of age in Reykjavík, the majority of them are young women with children. We know the situation of young single mothers with children in Icelandic society. There is a problem that will not be solved with conditions. Jobs are hard to do and proper jobs, etc. Half of them are out of work, either with their unemployment rights, or they have no rights to improve. It is of great interest that 38% of those who receive financial support in Reykjavík are patients who are not in disability, but who are unable to earn a living. I draw this fact up here because it's important to keep the group apart from a few directions, not just from the direction: Are people working or not working? - but also, do people have a premise to work, do they have a day-and-day space, do they have the circumstances to work? A recent example from Britain is that of men who have gone through very hard to increase their requirements. There they exonerate people from public contributions by offering them something they have no basis for taking, such as offering jobs that have no access to child - care. Of course, the subject says no and they're free of him. We need to consider, too, that there are certain dangers of doing what was done here each year to shorten the unemployment period. We do not know exactly if we are creating some subterranean device that will leave our sights in official statistics in the coming years. I noticed in a recent interview with the head of the employment agency that he traced that the results of last year were very good for those who had lost unemployment rights, only about 20% had not been found at work, but there are still 20%. If the same figures apply in the current year, we know that 1,400 people will lose their right to unemployment in this year because of the shorts and 20% of them is no microsurgeons, there are about 300 people. I mention this because in Britain, to take another example, people now have a different opinion. There, however, careful criticism is evidence that only about 20% found work, the rest of the sea disappeared, reached a number of soup - firehouses, and proposals to support themselves financially. I don't mention it because I'm going to make the government the motivation to want to go this way, I'm just saying that this is the danger we're facing up to system changes. One of the concern changes is also if we stop viewing the unemployment reform system as a fundamental factor in the progress of the unemployed and say, "Let's shorten this system, and people go to social services first. " Only one quarter of the unemployed have the right to help with rural society. It is then 3/4 that other systems must act. Of course, it has been accomplished only to the extent that they are given a job, but only 60% according to the numbers established by the head of the employment agency. If we go along to say that this system is conditional to accept unemployed people, we are creating a very different legal system in the country, a great difference between rural society. Some communities do very well, other sites. It involves danger. So I thought that it would be important for the committee to investigate whether or not the rest of the 1st law could be cremated. If the government is to place such a big part in helping out with the unemployed people who are well aware that they have already been assigned to the employment insurance fund and that they have the right to unemployment benefits, and then they're going to cut that right and then let another official forwarding system take over, these questions arise: Does the state not have the responsibility to ensure that this system is comparable between rural society? Will not the State have to make up for it if the poorest communities pay little? Rather than having the law in order to limit half of the criteria as to how low can you go, do you not reason? I mention, for example, that in the last version of the Ministry of Drug Administration, the baseline target is thought to be a minimum spending for certain budget groups regardless of car or housing, 99,758k. Why not say that it is not permitted to decompose? This means that there is a considerable decrease in the size of the rural population that best contributes to financial support but little for those who don't do so. My concern is mainly that this will be an opportunity for rural society that does not have the ambition to do particularly well in this area to push people out of favor. It's a real worry. We should take that risk seriously because we have examples of this in other lands. It is also important to remember that unemployment is not an individual problem, and unemployment is not possible. Unemployment is not because people have failed. Unemployment is the result of society's failure to provide for employment opportunities, and the labour market has been extremely closed. Since there are very few jobs available for people who have been long out of work, in the majority of cases with limited working abilities, there is difficulty in starting jobs. We haven't done anything. There are no bills, no suggestions on opening the workforce, increasing part - time jobs, increasing the number of jobs that enable people to enter and work part - time while returning to full - time employment. It is very difficult just to accept an inflexible labour market but to impair the rights of the people who are trying to get into it. Unemployment is a social problem. We also need to think about education in this context and all these varied aspects. It is also worth keeping in mind that the efficiency of the measures thus worked for us after the crash, when I was a social minister, and we were on pacification, and the unemployment rate increased by almost percent during a month which was one of the scariest times I've ever seen, that we had no jobs to offer so that the efficiency could only include offering a course to keep a performance but after the course was no more than continued unemployment, which was a terrible situation. As a result, we were in a position to feel like a massager who is constantly rubbing and who can do nothing but rub because there is nothing else to be done because a person can't get out of life to get his strength tested and to see if he needs a further massage. Of course, that is a terrible situation. Many of those who are now losing their rights have struggled with the lack of jobs during the initial years of unemployment. That's why I think we need to take care of the earth. I put these views in here. I think it's good that the case is treated with careful treatment by a committee and that we try to set the level of wisdom in line with the basic view that unemployment is a social problem and that conditions cannot be more extensive than that, so they meet only to those who are truly skilled and on a certain basis.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u94	President. It sounds like the executives I've heard there's nothing to fear for those who can win. But that is how it is in 2 Chronicles. Talks about full and impaired employment skills, and you ask yourself, " What is a loss? What I miss in this attempt to build a bridge between the great financial responsibilities that was transferred to the countryside by the government when it was decided to cut the rights of six months in an unprecedented way with ten days in advance, I fear this is some kind of dove that will have very serious consequences for the most vulnerable groups in the community or part of the delicate groups. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he shares this concern with me because it's my experience. I've been a human experiment in how the system doesn't work. And it's so often that when you bring such a ◯wholiesale, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Mr President, I'm going through the grid, there are so many people who fall through the mesh. What groups are the ones most likely to drop through this large mesh?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u95	Thank you. A senator's question and reiterate what I said before is that the key thing is to avoid the idea of unemployment. This is not to say that those who are out of work today can blame themselves or that there are some of their demons who selected them. This is exactly what happens after every economic crisis in every country. Thus, I found it a mistake to shorten the unemployment period with the evidence that employment conditions in general were improving because if the situation is generally improving and you are still out of work, something is wrong in the community. And it is not that you should be encouraged or that your circumstances are changing that unemployment in general is reducing. This is so that there is not an open route to the labour market for the person. I think, based on what I was talking about earlier, from the experience from Britain, that is, blessedly, much better for people to get jobs, there are still 20% who do not get a job. We also know that, based on what I mentioned before, how much is women with children, etc., there is a strong chance that significant things or significant groups will fall between ships and docks in this system. It also stops if we individualize the problem in the way that conditions are not a universal solution, they may be a means of individual help, but they are not a general solution. If we put things out as if they were a general solution, we'll be offering the danger of doing things the way in Britain, offering people things that they don't have a basis to agree with. What happens then? I told you earlier, 38% of those who are in financial support are patients who do not have disability. Will they not increase?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u96	President. I appreciate the answers. These are exactly the concerns I have. What I'm also worried about is that it often forgets that people who apply for employment live in very different circumstances. For example, a single mother cannot take shift work. If she rejects shift work that she is supposed to do, the rights can be cut out. I certainly hope so, for I think the regulations to be prepared from this bill are not clear enough, that the anticipated welfare committee will provide much clearer instructions on how to process these issues. I think it's all too open. I know this, and I know a number of examples that try to force people to work that they have no basis for working. Often, people with a lot of experience, a lot of education, are put into work, or pressured into it that is not suitable for them. It was this way once at a work agency that they could be rejected three times or something, no matter how silly and useless they were trying to drive people into jobs they couldn't work for, e.g. ... fromhomeplaces. I fear that there will be no regard for circumstances, how long people have been unemployed, and how many people have been crushed. Of course, I understand that there are some black sheep who try to cheat the system, but there are no problems to deal with by making everyone a bit like criminals, putting everyone under the same hat instead of taking on those matters in a special way. [[The president calls.]] I fear this route very much, and I agree with the senator that it will probably move people to the disability system, unfortunately. [[The president calls.]] It breaks people down.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-28-58.u97	A respectable president. I feel that there is a number of chemical reasons why I better determine the source, as I attributed earlier in my speech, that it is confined under special circumstances. Let us not overlook the fact that, in certain circumstances, such conditions have worked and helped, we have examples of this. Therefore, I think it was important to explain very carefully in the law and to determine that this is not a general rule or general authority. My concern is exactly what I thought was a reason. A senator is an advising. We have communities that have not even managed to provide financial assistance near what people can survive. If they are given a warrant that they can interpret as a means to validate that assistance and that they themselves provide the conditions, a lot of the people's firstborn rights have been handed over in Iceland for random power, which is rendered in an inconstant and broad order around the country. We know how the requirement or requirement for efficacy works in the hands of the labour oce. For example, if offered a job they do not have the basis for it, it has developed tradition and habits. How do we know that this will not be the case in individual rural areas who want to use this to clear it up? We need to be very careful because there's a leak in the system in all directions. One way is, of course, that increased stress causes people to simply become ill and move to the patient section. Still another consequence may be that people prefer disability, rehab. Of course it's a good thing, because then a certain rehabilitation program begins and rehabilitational action, but we need to be careful about all of this, we need to make sure that such a warrant cannot become a fanciful community that neglects social duties. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
