ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-14-20.u1	Borist has received a letter from the Environment and Resource Ministry asking for every request to give a written answer for this request. 135, on the status of peace statements in areas and protection initiatives from Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. Borist has received a letter from the Ministry of Education and Culture asking for every request in order to give a written answer to a letter on the spell. 181, of high school, age, etc., from the Árni Páll the son of Árnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-14-20.u2	A respectable president. We came up here a couple of us. Councilmen, yesterday, made comments to the ultimate fact. For months now, prime minister has made no request. paritaprevir Sigurdímur Sigríður the Ingibjörg of Ingadóttir on a special discussion about the insurance and her delinquency. Since then, there is no news from the Council's administration when this discussion can be expected. I have received reports that this apathy is not because the council held the case, but because, despite the fact that the council has massed up at the highest level. Prime Minister, the debate is at the highest level. The prime minister decided to submit to his duties according to the Constitution and the assembly. Therefore, I would like to use this opportunity here to inform you that I will request a meeting with the President of the Generals and the Office director of the Generals to discuss the serious situation established by the General Assembly for this neglect. Prime Minister. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-14-20.u3	A respectable president. I want to make a comment in particular about the highest. The prime minister has publicly stated that the very short, objective and necessary discussion that took place yesterday for the President's meeting board was past abuse. I'm really sorry about what happened to the highest. Government and some of it. The members of the greater body are saying that if you have any comments on the tactics at the General Assembly, this would be an automatic abuse of the President's conference board. It's not. Yesterday's discussion was necessary, she was moderate, she was perplexing, and she was timely. You, too, this one.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-14-20.u4	V.E.G. President. Despite the highest. Prime Minister came from the mountains yesterday during a question period, reports the press that a new Minister's car has been bought for the Ministry of the Type Mercedes Benz S-Class. A newsmagazine reported that this was the largest selling of the luxury cars in the world today and that it was sought among heads of state. It was noted that the car's art price was about 22 million. K. but according to media sources, the Ministry would have the car in less than 13 million. K. There is good reason for the public to rejoice in these efforts, and it is also a cause for joy that more ministers have received fine cars because the media also tell us that during this ideal period, foreign ministers, financial ministers, and seafarers have received a new car. The combined cost of these automobiles is about 35.5 million. Of course, in this country the fine men he has entrusted with power and money in his behalf want to drive around on fine cars. But it's not quite as good to know that at the same time, money at the relief center runs by Iceland's Medical Insurance, which includes providing disabled people with the necessary tools they have a legal right to use, and is the key premise that they can take part in life and society like the rest of us. I have been approached by disabled people and victims of disabled children who have been in a lot of trouble over the long waiting period for needed relief tools and repairs. V.E.G. President. It is a pleasure not to lack money at the Administrative Center, and I intend to allow myself to hope that the fine service our Ministers receive there will encourage them also to live in the relief center of hospital insurance that disabled people do not have to wait for weeks to receive urgent relief supplies. Then I want to take this opportunity to remind you of the campaign of brain violations for which Iceland's Youth Council of the UNICEF stands. That's why I wear this football today, but it's an effort to remind me of and call attention to the great loss of speech that is in the mental health of young children and young people in Iceland. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-14-20.u5	Mr. President. Today, showings in the documentary girls on KlepplC smoke cover situations that led to the saving of many young girls in a farm in Kleppl iron smoke. The circumstances were, like, sharp. Of course, members of Congress are aware of the 1940's armed forces that led to such bad experiences in Icelandic society that amazing measures were taken to stop the association of these girls of all ages, ranging from young girls to women in their 60's, to foreign soldiers. In fact, it was so far as to set emergency laws to reduce the age of self - control from 20 years to 16 years so that these young women, many of whom were of poor homes, children of single parents, could be handled. They were sent to rural areas or on the heels of Kleppl iron smokes, and the coverage was extremely intense. A special committee was set up to discuss dangerous prostitutes who would have to be decommissioned. It is interesting that these issues, conditions, and other fish are now being discussed, not just in this picture, but they are also working on historical research here and there on these women, a story that has never been accurately told. So I've decided to ask a question to the highest level. Minister of state to be distributed to the highest level. There is time for the Minister of the Interior to consider the matter. First, I think that the eco-efficiency committee will take up this case and review the events that came at the heels of Cylinder smoke, and the second issue that also counts; that there will be an investigation of government interference, the existing intelligence, the instruments used, and those girls were used because I believe it has been a long time. This documentary and the research we are discussing show that we are dealing with this black spot in history.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-14-20.u6	Mr. President. I take my leave of silence to have a place to say. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson, also vice president of the Economic and Business Committee. The purpose is recently set up by law on real estate sales and regulations that have been presented in the pages of the Ministry of Industrial Affairs website. Both the Regulation and the law have the goal of making further demands on real estate sales and thereby increasing the quality of the service provided by real estate halls, thus promoting consumer protection. I believe, however, that the Lawgiver made a mistake when he made those laws. This is because only those who have legal rights to which real estate halls are allowed to do this, but today there are 250 agents, in effect, in a new Regulation's sentence, will lose their jobs in one blow. These letters are received during the days when they are being dismissed. Most people are at the top of something that means they have to walk out on the same day. It's already started. Because of this, 250 people are losing their jobs. What I believe is that the lawgiver intended to provide these people with the time needed for education. That education is available in at least two university schools, including 90 units of diploma. One hundred and ten are in such studies during the first year, 20 in the second year, and they have to walk out of their jobs. In addition, there are some 100 constituted 150 who could not get into that study because they did not have a student's test, although university law allows men 25 years of age who have experience in such study. I'm asking why. A member of Parliament and the vice form of the Economic and Business Committee: Does he not feel that it is reasonable for the committee or the Senate to follow an incident to suggest some kind of adjustment that will create a temporary course for these men and women whose present prospects for survival are, in effect, without any reason? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-14-20.u7	V.E.G. President. I think I can totally agree with everything that came out of the question. paritaprevir Acoustics, Skarphéðinsson's son. Although I am accompanied by increased consumer protection and more professional demands in general, it is true that in this case there are about 250 people who have done these jobs, even decades and decades, and I think we have gone too far in the recently approved legislation. So I will suggest that she be reviewed by the Committee with a possible adjustment in mind so that we can ensure that the people can keep their jobs to some extent, that is not exactly the same as they have worked so far, and that they can study even if they don't have a student test so that their experience is evaluated as much as with a student's test, and that they can be sure that they have the potential to get the rights to the rights to which they are concerned. I'll use myself to get it done. So I have discussed this with the Minister himself in a personal conversation, and it seems to me that the lawgiver has even gone further than the Minister had originally assumed in the bill we'll revise this to make sure that there won't be all of a sudden 250 people without a livelihood. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-14-20.u8	A respectable president. During the past few days, we have been very busy talking about an expensive journey, and it is very good and important. But now I want to talk about the well - being of children and young people in this country who are born to all else are the most important group of people. In Iceland, it turns out that 15◯20% of children need increased support because of psychoses, such as anxiety, depression, feelings of inadequacy, difficult family circumstances, etc. Of these, 5% of them need additional support, need to be admitted to the hospital, into the BUGL, only 1.5%. We pride ourselves on having the smallest infant death in a world that determines what we will guarantee our children good and secure life when they are born - but what happens when they grow up? Why does this change when they get older? What if these were tuberculosis, such spiritual symptoms that children display? What if this was a physical disease, such as tuberculosis, if the signs and symptoms of tuberculosis were observed in 15◯20% of children and young people? I want to take this opportunity to thank the highest. A health minister for establishing a new mental - health program where all youths in the country will be screened for depression and anxiety. That's a very progressive step. I would also like to commend the UICEF Youth Council in Iceland for the initiative of a series of brain fragments that are now being carried out in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-14-20.u9	A respectable president. As it is known, the Committee to conduct a representative of all political parties on the review of certain aspects of the Constitution. The news is coming in well at that job, and now a possibility that suggestions might be given. I'd like to use this opportunity here to encourage the political parties who have representatives on this committee to do everything possible to try to get together on suggestions that can be in a way that makes us all proud. The nation has repeatedly called for surveys and national pay to get authority to bring up a case to the national law and to the Constitution of national resources to the nation. Iceland's politics have been in a unique place since collapse, and belief in the International Assembly of Iceland has been measured in a historical minimum. The way forwards must be to link the public will of the land and that the political parties agree to show that they can make a decision in accordance with national agreement and a clear record of national standards of justice. So I reiterate encouragement to the representatives of all classes of this committee. Let us now take advantage of this opportunity to see if we cannot fit in with our material meanings, respecting this fundamental requirement of the nation. It may be a message from the political parties to the nation that they have a purpose in a new era.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-14-20.u10	Mr. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson for a quick and positive response to my request to discuss insurance with him here. As it has become known, I have long had a request for special discussions with the prime minister regarding the insurance policy and expect him to comply with that request in the days ahead, but I intend to use the time to discuss other matters. One of the main campaigns of the forward party before the last election was decommissioned insurance. It was planned on a committee and it produced proposals in January 2014, and on May 9, 2014, a report on the Presidency Office was published that from January 1, 2015, more important steps should be taken toward the full discharge of the insurance of new consumer loans and working on a full - time plan would be started no later than in 2016. We have not seen any of these announcements, nor have they taken place in the Constitution of the government before the winter. So I wanted to ask you what. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson three questions: First, I ask if he approves of this inactivity. Second, I ask if he knows what kind of work is going on with the government to keep the election going on. Finally, I would like to ask him if he believes the price insurance on new consumer loans will be taken away in the season of election.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-14-20.u11	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by celebrating the opportunity to talk about the insurance and thank you. paritaprevir Sigríður, Ingibjörg the daughter of Ingadóttir for asking for it. Because of what? The senator was first introduced into the clear will of the candidates to confirm that this is certainly one of the issues that the Agency stressed in the process of election action, and in short, it is in resolutions at the council to accept the price of insurance, so history will not repeat itself as it is, and that the price of consumer loans will not be guaranteed. This was followed up in a party resolution at the 2015 Parliament. I don't think this reference will be clear on the part of the candidates, and I think it's important to cross the government's time line to answer the specific questions that came at the end of the operation program that began the government's career. It is important in the context that we realize that by resolution we are at the Council to assign the government to take this issue. It approved point 6, setting up a panel of experts for decommissioning insurance from consumer loans. There is a planned schedule at the end of 2013, where it stands, and it survived. That was in full harmony with that plan. Then, in January 2014, the expert team returned a report, rather two reports in which the group split in their position. The second report was decisive in removing the price insurance of new consumer loans. The details of the majority were on the way that this would be done in step. The plan so far has been held, a respectable president. At least I agree with what. A senator, that the journey that the General commissioned the government must be completed. I'm glad that the Allied members and members of the council call it, and I'm a part of it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-14-20.u12	Mr. President. Intensification and equality should be a fundamental theme when it comes to access to health care. All should have access to medical services at all times and should not be paid in advance. This is usually the way things are in our society, with no exception, but that's how we want it. Sadly, one of these exceptions is what I am going to discuss right now. It is hard to believe that dental health is not being viewed, as does other health professionals in the community. All children should have equal opportunity when it comes to health. It is not unusual for the cost of dental treatment to be around and over a million on a child who is just onto the family. Today's situation is simply so that people who have to send their children to carves often have considerable poor options and may even have to borrow to cover these costs. Now I'm not talking about dental respiratoring, I'm talking about drying teeth due to a defect that needs to be damaged and affects people's health. I can't imagine living in a country where the wealthier people keep their fine teeth in old age than those with less wages live in poor quality of life in their later years, since there was no money in the family to send the child or the teenager into dental treatment. I recommend that the authorities recognize dental problems as health problems and help with the possibilities of working on them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-14-20.u13	A respectable president. In the community there is great anger over discrimination as the weather around here. We've watched Anion Bank administration move a small group, customers' gang, hundreds of millions on a silver plate. Before I sat down at the council, I never thought that there was corruption in this hall or among the council or minister, and after spending more than two years here, I'm still convinced that society's corruption is not rooted in the council, and it's important to keep it in place. However, corruption seems to be rooted in banks, where discrimination seems to take place almost every day. It's boring that such discrimination should be practiced in our small community. It's completely annoying. It smells in the air. There's this kind of bank shit in the air, it's a pain in the ass. I hate all the discrimination taking place here. The country's prisons are already half full of bankers, and there's probably room for more if they intend to continue to behave like this in this society. People condemn this, and so do I.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-14-20.u14	A respectable president. We made up a short mention here in this public address on the state of the Council of Iceland and possibly his conduct on matters that involve the violations of currency regulations. I'm glad to hear it. The management and monitoring committee should have taken the General's letter for further consideration and considered this matter. It really matters, so I welcome it. However, I would like to make the Hospital a subject, not because of the imminent strikes. Over a decade and a half have been working on rebuilding the Land Hospital on the Ring Road. This has caused disagreements, and many are now volunteering their efforts and lands to call the hospital to another location. We're here with a shared organization. We have a budget and we agreeed with the Generals to build the Land Hospital in the area where he is. I believe this journey should be continued. However, I believe it is also time now - in view of the length of time spent design, choice of places, and so forth - to consider that the hospitals in another area within the age of 10 to 15 years. Hence, if I recall a longer future, we need to examine the issues here, under the motto of a better hospital, that we do not need in the long run another hospital that serves us all. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-14-20.u15	A respectable president. I got on Facebook my website before an excellent shipment from the Directorate of the Association of Cancer Children, which brought my attention to and others on the fact that the French Parliament approved songs allowing anonymous free days to associate workers with seriously ill children. The idea arose after the father of an oncology boy received 170 days off as a gift from his associates. The director, Gréta Ingþórsdóttir, asked if a change would be required to make this possible. I don't know, but I wanted to draw attention to this thing that I think is a very good idea. It's done here, and I think we should follow it along in this field and anywhere else. But I also wanted to talk about something else, and that is a completely different matter. Once again, news came, and now it was reported on the cover of the morning paper that e - mails had been destroyed in the Board of Directors. Now I know that there is a bit of effort to erase e - mails, so they won't be found again. I want to direct it to what? The management and monitoring committee to see how this is done. Who can delete e - mails so they can't feel it again? Why is this so that all the members of the Board can do this? Or are there certain? It appears that e - mails disappear from systems, but they are all the same as I know most of all, for years and decades, for good reason.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-14-20.u16	A respectable president. All I want to do is talk about the judiciary or the judiciary. We have heard that a Dutch woman was sentenced to 11 years in prison for moving in with a considerable amount of drugs. This has raised some questions because the penalty is 12 years, and you ask yourself, " How will I ever get caught? ' Actually, the line of punishment is completely new. At the same time, we read about various cases of sexual abuse involving children, many of whom feel weak. I think the strongest sentence in this case was ten years in prison. [[Up front.]] With such long prison punishments for such violations, much has been done and not for ordinary people to read the judgments, for these are horrible. I've been found here at a council and elsewhere where these drugs are being found to be out of control. I ask you, shall I stand here as a member of the council and discuss this? The courts must be independent, and we should not try to influence them, but we are the ones making the legislation. So let's go to the top. Is the Minister of State changing the legislation, bringing new laws into the council, or is it impossible for the Council, the legislature, to accept such an assignment? I'm always more and more thinking about what I know that many senators, including Blöndal BöIIa, the vow, speaks a lot of how little it is for the council to make bills. For example, committees do not do much to spread cross - laity languages together. I just want to put it right here, if we don't agree with this and think that reviews of drug abuse have gone way too heavy and no harm to other offenses, is that not our reaction? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-14-20.u17	Mr. President. September 24th. was a meeting on a job committee. There was high criticism of project management in step 3 of the frame plan. At the meeting, a number of companies from the energy sector, Land activation and Energy Institute, and representatives from the Ministry and the head of the project. High criticism was made that the project management does not work within a legal process and collect all too much data that should be considered, not in the environmental assessments, but at a later stage in the environmental assessment. I wished for a meeting to come to representatives of the National Protection Agency, Organization, and Nature Protection Organization, but it did not occur until October 6th of last week. What a joy it was to be critical that the work programme does not work according to environmental estimates, the decline is being made for a team of Organizations. The Agency will monitor the environmental assessments and show that a project management operates according to the procedures it should do. What a joy it is to have confidence in and trust in an assignment government! Environment Minister expressed confidence in her work. I hope that what was presented at the second meeting on this case on October 6 will not be brought back to the job committee, that the credibility of the project management will not be ashamed, and that there will be a proof of her work, which, of course, I have considered in good order, so that she will be at peace with her work and submit her findings in the next year.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-14-20.u18	V.E.G. President. I had already taken a silent leave of those members, the members of the council, by means of a talk, but then I responded and responded. paritaprevir Sigríður, Ingibjörg Ingadóttir on the insurance policy. I've decided to continue to discuss that matter, but I'm sorry to go. A senator is not in the hall, but he considered me to have answered almost entirely the three questions she asked, but he did not limit the answer to them. It's only materially about the insurance policy. It has been on the government program, i.e. To cope with changing this system, almost ever since it was recorded. It has most often been in an obvious rhythm of the economy. The debate fades as prices become abundant and the power to buy is increasing, people have jobs, and they can generally handle the payment loads they do, but when the spells form just as we are experiencing right now, and the inflation begins to create turmoil. Then, when a decline of delinquency is accompanied by good results, it becomes clear that the responsibility for the economy, everything that changes, rests heavily on the borrower. This arrangement has been debated for a long time. There's a lot of people that want to defend, we can call it, this system. The public who has to deal with the payload of this system wants to cancel it. That's perfectly clear. The government has so far had the case in the process since the approval of the Congress proposal as I did earlier. Hv. A senator asked me if I had faith that this would work. Time is certainly a crisis, but it is made clear in reply to the highest. Prime Minister to ask why. The senator's position on the case. It's 40 years, they have to change for 25 years, it's on table at the highest. Financial and economic ministers. [[The president calls.]] The price insurance watch has already been initiated, and a lot of decommission is scheduled for 2016. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We're running out of time, but I believe it's possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-14-20.u19	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a change in the laws of Iceland's national flag and national shielding, No. 34/144, with subsequent changes. The bill was submitted to the last assembly, but it did not finally get paid. The bill is now reassigned with two changes made in view of the changes made to the greater part of the Council's Commission and Observation Committee at the last Parliament. On the basis, however, the bill is based on a Senate bill called Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, etc. as the General agreed at their meeting on May 16, 2014, to refer to the government. Mr. President. The bill suggests that the flag be cleared for use in the Icelandic national flag during the marketing of goods and services and is recommended to be authorised without special permission to use the flag during the marketing of Icelandic products and services. The law of the law, which is more closely defined in Article 2, defines the word "a·geʹa·sa·kʹ from its origin. " The bill what it means. According to that definition, if produced in a country from a local source, the principle is considered Icelandic. National raw material refers to any non-invented raw material, such as Icelandic agricultural products, European seafood, i.e. 'Environment', 'Environment', 'Environment' and 'Environment', 'Environment' and 'Environment' In addition to the principle, according to the bill, the country's origin may be considered by three separate rules. First, if you have traditional Icelandic foods or products that have a long history of manufacture in this country. Second, because of design of product and third of mind. With regard to standard Icelandic products and products with long production history in this country it is suggested that the product be derived from Icelandic in the sense of the law if it has been produced here on land in at least 30 years under Icelandic logo, even if it is produced from large or whole import materials and the same should be applied to food produced according to Icelandic tradition, e.g. in two, four, four, four, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, nine, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, nine, nine, nine, nine, nine, eight, eight, nine, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight! In terms of design products, such products are suggested to be considered Icelandic if it is designed by the Icelandic company under Icelandic brands, even if it has been produced abroad from foreign materials. This is not relevant, however, for raw substances that are similar to those of a local substance that has a unique origin, characteristic, or quality. An example of such raw materials would be the Icelandic wool. This is not enough, for example, to design an Icelandic person, according to this rule, but lopeys can only be considered Icelandic when produced from Icelandic wool. Finally, a project is considered Icelandic if it is written or created by an Icelandic person. The Icelandic company on the bill refers to individuals and legalizes with Icelandic social security numbers. A respectable president. The views behind the bill are primarily that consumers can, in the form of a product marked by the Icelandic flag, trust that it is actually Icelandic in the sense laid down in the bill. Furthermore, those who post such products and want to express the Icelandic origin of the product clearly, e.g. To get the attention of foreign tourists, to mark it the national flag of the Icelanders. It is reasonable to assume that such markings can play an important role during the marketing period, both at home and abroad. As previously stated, the marketing authorisation of the flag is mandatory but is based on the monitoring as described below. By 8. The current laws on the flag and the national flag are under investigation due to differences in the proper use of the flag in a criminal manner, but the government is ruled by the Ministry of Presidency. The bill suggests that there will be another way to monitor the use of the flag at launch of product and service at Article 12. The law and the Nite Owl, which operates under the Code on Business Control and the launch, is recommended to be put under supervision in that area. The Agency's role in monitoring is highly accepted. It is important that effective surveillance be performed so that only those correctly authorised to use the national flag can be obtained with that use. It is thought that the Netostry is best to maintain such effective monitoring and is suggested to provide the same guidelines for the Agency's monitoring on the matters of the management, management and treatments as well as on the judicial hearings of the consumer committee and in general on the monitoring of the Agency, in line with guidelines for business and market surveillance. A respectable president. In the contract of the bill, there was a review and a review of internal Affairs, trade and innovation, Navigator Institute, Park Prayer, Industrial Association, Iceland's Basis, Private Displacement Agency, Iceland Association, Tourists Association, Business Association and Design Center. From the findings of consultations and comments, it is clear that there is general support among stakeholders for the changes in the species proposed in the bill. At that time, the improved attitude of the Neytendian Lab is to the increased surveillance function entrusted to her under this bill. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be referred to the management and monitoring committee after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-14-20.u20	V.E.G. President. I come up here mostly to celebrate the fact that this bill has been released. Icelandic farmers have waited a long time for a law to sign products of the Icelandic flag and for a better definition of the source of the Icelandic product, and I welcome the rules that come into the law. I'm also happy to be the highest. A minister led the surveillance program in such a way that it was being handled by the National Institutes and strongly stressed that monitoring is necessary. Products must be made from local materials, they need to be manufactured in the country, not from imported materials, as was shown in the case of frequent debates. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir offered the bill. I'm very happy to see this finally come in here and celebrate.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-14-20.u21	A respectable president. I thank you for this comment, and I get to use the opportunity to agree with it by reason. A senator that we have sensed a great deal of support and demand for domestic producers, and especially food producers, to mark their products in this way, i.e. use the flag to make it known that Icelandic goods are involved. In fact, we also see that many foreign guests in Iceland and foreign merchants would like to be able to label Icelandic goods, groceries and other Icelandic products in this way simply because there is a demand for Icelandic products in excess of many other things. Iceland has created an image that the products produced here, especially, are in high quality and high prices, so it is both in the interest of sealers and buyers to be able to mark the product in this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-14-20.u22	V.E.G. President. I'd like to direct it to the highest. The prime minister that on this bill, I was asked if it would be monitored at local restaurants that they would refer specifically to what on the menu would be Icelandic meat, etc. to advertise any food they sell and manufacture is produced here. I ask the prime minister to answer if he has access to it in the bill; then I am not necessarily talking about obliging restaurants to mention the origin of the products they have on the invitations but, rather, direct it to them to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-14-20.u23	A respectable president. I believe the origin of food sold there will provide increased incentive for restaurants. In fact, the trend has been that the traders of Icelandic groceries are drawing it out in menus and other ways of being Icelandic, since both domestic customers and especially those from abroad are seeking to buy the products produced in Iceland. Hopefully, this will motivate people to do even more by marking the products in such a way and, of course, selling even more Icelandic goods in restaurants.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-14-20.u24	Mr. President. I support this bill, and I think it's a long time for a bill of this to be accepted. I don't know if it's been past the top. One prime minister in the great effort he has on his strong shoulders is that I have lost several articles in which I have concluded that marketing needs Iceland and Icelandic purity as reflected in Icelandic production, both agricultural and marine products, but also the services and products involved in selling access and experience within the country in a more consistent way. I don't know the English word, but allow me to use it, by permission of the President, the English word has become an English term that lacks it as a unit. I believe this is one part of it, or it might become it. That's why I love it. I believe Iceland has a great deal to make the most of the factors. Prime Minister mentioned. I have felt that way, though it may seem strange to many, but not necessarily to those of the highest rank. Prime Minister, that Iceland is awaiting a considerable golden future as food production land, not just sea products, but in agriculture as well. I often feel that men overlooked opportunities there. They all lie and lie on the purity of the country, the fact that Icelandic production is virtually pollution free. It is of a different quality than any foreign product. Therefore, I feel that the flag will be used as a anchor for such a market, but it is not necessarily the word. My question to the highest. Prime Minister: Is it assumed that the flag for this purpose will be used in a standard way, i.e. everyone uses the same symbol or disposition of it just to press home the symbol he is supposed to be for Icelandic production? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-14-20.u25	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer and a very good question. The bill is primarily the use of the flag as it appears and hangs behind a respectable president, though there may be some differences in the size of the flag or whether the flag will be displayed volleyball or not. But I agree with that with what. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Aggressor that there is much that recommends the making of symbols, some ◯logo, now I'm going to get into trouble like a respectable senator before. What do we call it in Icelandic? Marker, bang. A senator understands what I mean, some sign that men can use not only to label goods but also to sell travel to Iceland, such a full market out of one common sign. That's in addition to that. Like what? A senator may have been familiar with such concerns. The producers of Icelandic goods and services have been wondering if this could be accomplished and what would be the best way of doing so. Governments like to see it happen, have observed that work, and will join in and contribute to its success.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-14-20.u26	Mr. President. V.E.G. The prime minister is sure to know that this matter has been discussed many times in recent decades. It has always been a peculiar failure in the high Council to use the flag in this way, just as it was a great difficulty in granting authority to hang the Icelandic flag in the Council. I had, in fact, so I made my personal opinion manifest, all the other ideas about how to use the flag inside this council hall rather than today. Well, that's another story. I think it would be possible to make a standard signal that could represent all the purity involved in Iceland, the production and visits to Iceland. That's why I'm the highest. The prime minister to consider whether he should take the initiative that such a sign will be made and then will be assigned to promote it to the outside world. Just as the Neytend Office is ideal for observing that people do not go outside the rules for use, I feel that an Iceland lab, the instrument the government has to promote Iceland, will be assigned to market the new brand that would then rest on the flag. It's at least an idea I believe is worth one Mass for the highest. Prime Minister to sleep with his tiny brain.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-14-20.u27	A respectable president. Thanks for the encouragement. It so happens that I will soon have a meeting with a man who took the initiative to get a meeting to discuss this matter. They have been studying the possibility of developing such cooperation and having a lot of conversations with parties in food production, tourism, and other articles to see how much there was a basis for that. It'll be very interesting to hear about it. I would have liked to hear it. A senator describes how he would have wanted to use the Icelandic flag here in the Hall of Congress just for curiosity. Yeah, let's see. A senator with my hands how he would have liked this. It's possible that it would have come out just fine. We can think about that, me and what. A senator, perhaps one day when I get my permission for it and a cup of coffee, and I predicted this as well as the presentation of Iceland and Icelandic production out with a common brand.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-14-20.u28	A respectable president. I have long felt that there are rules to the use of the Icelandic flag during the marketing of goods and services. As far as I'm concerned, I'm celebrating this bill. These rules have been narrower than any other country where companies and societies have been able to make good use of the country's reputation for marketing. The flag of the country is often a quality label that ensures sale of the product or service. The increase in the use of the Icelandic flag for this purpose will increase the production of the Icelandic flag and thereby strengthen the entire industry. This is good and good. In fact, we have been more Catholic than the pope when it comes to the use of the Icelandic flag, both in time and in general use of the flag. Our conservativeness has held back the necessary changes, so I do not doubt that many people will rejoice at the changes proposed here. This bill, however, does not have any criticism, and it may be used to comment on its various features. There are also things that depend on vague opinions that are not good. A careful consideration of 4 mg should be given. Section 12. It says that it is permitted to use the Icelandic flag as a label or as a label, as well as a package, as a product or service advertisement, as the product or activity of Icelandic origin, and not as an object of disrespect to the flag. This article is quite clear, and most of us can agree on it, even though at a time when the flag is treated disrespectfully. When is disrespect so great that the flag is not to be used in goods or services, and what is included in disrespect for the flag? The bill has no definition of it. However, I do not comment on allowing the flag to be used on a product origin. The next paragraph of the bill draws attention and should be examined. It says that a warning is an Icelandic source, and this allows the flag to be used if it is produced in a country from local materials to live. In comment with the bill, it is repeated that these two requirements need to be met, on the other hand, being manufactured here and being made from Icelandic materials to a source. A greater proportion of the raw material must probably be Icelandic. In particular, this refers to Icelandic agricultural products, Icelandic seafood, Icelandic vegetables and plants, as well as e.g. water. Here's an opinion may arise, and questions arise about the origin of raw materials. When is it U.S. status? The bill doesn't answer. Although the bill is produced here from a large part of foreign materials, much of it is not enough to protect itself from being considered Icelandic. However, it presents the 30 - year rule, i.e. that the product can only be considered Icelandic if it has been produced here for 30 years under the same brand. The same should be true of food produced in the Icelandic standard, e.g. That's what we're talking about, you know, a cake and a leaf's bread. In short, therefore, the general rule is: The Icelandic flag can be used for the product produced by an Icelandic element. If it is produced largely from imported raw materials, producers will have to wait 30 years to stamp the product with the Icelandic flag. Today, many products that most of us would consider Icelandic are made from foreign materials. It will have to be pretty bloody if the producers of such products have to wait for about 30 years before they can use the Icelandic flag as a market. What will they pay? The bill on the same issue referred to the government originally assumed a 50 - year rule, half a century. If raw materials were foreign, producers would have to wait for half a century before the count was Icelandic. It has been blessed to lower the threshold for 30 years, but I believe it is still very high. Special attention is given to design products in this bill. It says that while manufactured from foreign materials, such as raw materials that are different from domestic materials that are considered to have special origins, characteristics, or qualities, it is considered Icelandic by an Icelandic source. If we try to translate this into human language, that means, for example, is what it means. that it is allowed to use the flag on clothing produced by Icelandic company in China as long as they can prove that it is Icelandic design. Here is a minor problem, for in most cases, Icelandic design and design are a stretching term, not to mention, especially when it comes to clothing. It is often sufficient to make small changes in the appearance of goods so that it can be labeled as an Icelandic design. So it is possible that many designs that have very little contact with Iceland other than the future buyers of Iceland will carry the Icelandic flag. This is a thought - provoking point. In particular, the raw materials used in the manufacture of this model abroad should not be physically similar to the local materials that are considered to have special origin, characteristics and characteristics, as I said earlier. It contains, for example, refers to the Icelandic wool, says a comment to the bill. When is a foreign substance too much of a physical substance? I have no idea. Probably, this means that the Icelandic flag on lopeys is not to be used in China if it is derived from a country other than Iceland. What, though, if the sweaters are made of mixed material from materials that are anything but roping? Where will the line be drawn? When is the term too similar to the Icelandic ingredient? I have no idea, but it is quite clear that a lot of producers will test this provision, both in terms of Icelandic design and when the raw material has become too similar to Icelandic raw material. Then ask: Can the flag be used to sell an Icelandic product, e.g. New inventions, or inventions, protected by patents, are produced from foreign materials? It seems that this bill's designs are primarily addressed to its appearance. However, we produce a variety of machines in fishing roads and food productions, as well as, for example. some medicines, to name just a few. Does it normally refer to raw materials as Icelandic or not? Commenting on the use of the Icelandic flag in the marketing of goods and services, we note that the views behind the bill lie primarily that consumers can, in the case of a product marked by the Icelandic flag, trust that it is actually Icelandic. Furthermore, those who post such products and want to express the Icelandic origin of the product clearly, e.g. to capture the attention of foreign tourists, to mark it with the national flag of the Icelanders. Such goals are good and noble. However, a specific question mark must be placed on whether the bill is in harmony with these goals. Let us speak clearly. I see no better than a number of products most of us would consider Icelandic will be emblazoned with the Icelandic flag in the future, thus suggesting that they are Icelandic production. All I see is clothes, souvenirs, and so forth, e.g. produced in China and sold to foreigners in stores at the branch office, e.g. The dispositions of the mood camp will likely bear the Icelandic flag in the future. This could be an Icelandic design. The products can be embellished with the Icelandic flag as if it were the Icelandic product. The same is true of sweaters and other items sold here but even produced in large numbers abroad. There is nothing that will stop your sweaters from carrying the Icelandic flag in the future and being sold as Icelandic products. I may be old - fashioned in this case. Now, I believe that most of us have quite the same view as to what we consider to be Icelandic products. Of course, we can discern this slightly. For example, I do not view many commercial products as Icelandic, even though they are sold here and I will not. I don't think it's right. I think most buyers of such products feel the same way, whether foreign tourists or Icelanders usually do. Even though some Icelandic designer came to draw on paper the appearance of the product, it is not Icelandic to me. Let us see that this can also mean that we feel what is Icelandic and what will not be distorted. So we need to take a careful approach to the earth in this matter. We do not want to harm the Icelandic industry, especially the small industry that is in a difficult competition with cheap production that flows into the country. We also need to be on guard against dictators who are struggling for their existence. I will support this bill as I believe it is very important that an Icelandic company can use the Icelandic flag as a market. Iceland has become a valuable brand all over the world. It hasn't happened on its own. After that, there is a lot of work and a lot of money. However, we must be careful of the valuable things we have in our hands. Despite the advantages of individual producers and sales brokers, we are not benefiting from the Icelandic flag. Many years of market work on Icelandic goods has resulted in a great deal of success. We can't risk it. We are authorized to use the Icelandic flag on the market, as the bill expects, but we must take care of the steps we are taking. consumers must be able to trust that this is Icelandic products, not the use of deception. I believe we are expected to submit this case to the administration and monitoring committee. I hope that these will be the necessary changes to make sure that the products marked in Iceland are actually Icelandic, but not in disguise. In this bill, the use of the term needs to be clear. She's too ecstatic, just like she's set up. There is nothing that can't be transformed into the council. Overall, we are going in a positive direction with this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-14-20.u29	Mr. President. V.E.G. The prime minister concluded his case earlier by inviting me, over this platform, to a meeting where nutrition training would take place, and he is going to offer me a cake or cake. It's a delicate matter for both of us, that we both know, because he struck a certain stunner, said that it would only be the next time he was allowed. Now I don't know where to go. A minister must be granted permission, but if appropriate. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar I will pass through it. Otherwise, I reiterate my support to the bill. I thought they were words. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson took along earlier as interesting. I don't think that he has old - fashioned opinions, even though he wants to walk through doors slowly in the first place. I believe when men are walking out on the trail we've never been before, we should be conservative. We are to appreciate the experience of how we do it, and there are always future laws that can be changed if someone sees some defect on them. I prefer to be on the same conservative notes as that. A senator, at least for the beginning of this journey. In other cases, my attention was not limited to speaking at any given moment. Senator. He put it so that Iceland had become a valuable symbol or brand. That may be so. On the other hand, I would like to allow myself to assert that in the past Iceland, the market of food, was even more valuable. It was at the time when there was a strong sales organization here who focused on selling many companies in Iceland with their combined power of Icelandic production. Then it was Iceland that was selling the least of it, and it was Iceland that was still in Iceland. At that time, it would have been necessary to have a common sign based on the national flag to do so. Since then, we know that the trend has broken up the market and, although it has been in Icelandic salesmen, especially in the case of marine products, is that we have more than kept seawater, for example, for the high production of an additional company and, at times, subheading on the part of our cousin of the Norwegian, it is still true that today, for example, men are selling Icelandic seafood primarily from a particular company but much less than Icelandic goods. That's my opinion. Therefore, as I could in the past present, I have presented my views on this matter, both in talks here at the council, as well as in the detailed and long articles in the morning newspaper. If the highest. The prime minister is not allowed to eat cake with me, so I believe that we can quite solve that problem by sending him my last long dog, which I published earlier in the morning newspaper. He might find out a lot. I have thought that Icelanders have a strong chance to get ahead of competitive countries in terms of seafood. That's because our marine products are very clean. It comes from a very clean ocean, and it is easy to sell Icelandic products as clean products; sometimes it is used by humans as a slightly perennial term. But I believe, with a firm market on the part of Iceland, where Iceland is the brand and symbol of its standard form on the national flag, it can become a very valuable brand in the future. In the same way, I believe that the very quality image of Icelandic marine products that have advanced the route in this respect can be of great benefit to the growth of agricultural exports. It's always a taboo to talk about exporting agriculture because it's small, it doesn't produce much, and it's subsidized, although it's true that at the time I've been living in the World Council, the subsidies on the Icelandic agricultural industry have been reduced by 4.5% of land production to half a percent. Thus, all evolution is in the right direction. I could, for example, give a deeper talk about why I think it will continue in that direction. In other words, I believe that agricultural exporting has a future. It's because of two things. First, because commercial products can be sold as almost clean products because no matter where you take them, Icelandic agriculture uses much less farming, using much less medicines, the product is much cleaner. It is also noted that we have been free of some diseases that have almost destroyed temporarily, such as beef production in continental Europe. First of all, it's honesty. Second, it will enjoy the splendor of the reputation of Icelandic seafood. I believe we're supposed to grab across Iceland's food exports, as well as take in the tourism services and market them all to the purity of Iceland, which is becoming very sought after. I'm sure I feel like after the bill is passed and after it's approved, it's gonna be done in a way that, in the first place, would become a standard signal based on the national flag. What are other nations doing? If you go into a camp on the mainland, you see a shelf there, first of all, a Danish ham with a Danish flag, you see the Norwegian salmon with the Norwegian flag, and that's how you might count one brand after another, which is somehow characteristic of the country. By doing so, we are going to build our own brand at the highest level. The prime minister, because he became a word lacking, as I was, called ◯logo. It's like this, it's important, but it's gonna take a long time. It may well cost a fortune, but it's an investment that will pay if, for example, you go to an Iceland lab to get the job of marketing Iceland in this way. If we succeed in obtaining a farm for agricultural exports, such as the mills where people are willing to pay high for almost clean goods, we will see that there are opportunities. Today, we produce an 8 breakdown of yours. tons of lamb. Yes, we have had trouble selling it because domestic consumption has declined. The government was pursuing a fine path that led to a signing of a contract that increases the possibility of toll free exporting to European lamb markets to 4,500 tons. We're producing an 85.9 you're going to make. ton, but we have land, we don't have to break a new country, even though we're about to increase production of lamb meat to 15 ounces. a ton. We don't have to break any land. Land is at hand. We need to cultivate it. But we're not using it today. What I'm saying is that there are opportunities for exporting what we can classify as traditional agricultural products. It does not have to go into big investments to make good use of what is available. It's not going to save a nation if we're going to move out 6 thoust. another ton of lamb. But it can save many of the settlements we call perimeterd today. These are inhabited in certain parts of the South, in the West, in the northwestern and Northeast. There may well be no amount of money in the Kingdom box, but it will place new foundations on it. It's just that it matters so much because we're a lot of people who think Iceland should be built. I'm of the opinion that if it somehow costs on the part of the government and the taxpayers, I'm as the taxpayer at the expense. Because it's just my view of Iceland and part of my principles, and I'm in the lead to the Navy's farm wings. Mr. President. These are the viewpoints I wanted to promote. The rights to play from the possibilities of this bill can lead to considerable benefits for Iceland's export. So is another matter. We will soon begin to host two million tourists each year. That's a huge number. These are people who attend Iceland, and surveys show that 90548% of them are going to be very happy at home. They remember Iceland. We need to review Iceland's memory every time they go to the store to buy groceries for food because they're supposed to be products from Iceland, whether it's meat or fish, which they see for their use in Iceland, because the Icelandic symbol is the Icelandic symbol based on colours and the Icelandic flag. That's how I picture it. That's the way to win this thing. I'm the highest. Prime Minister and Government, when the bill is approved, to examine whether or not to work on that basis, and to get those Iceland clinics, with the funding it has to play now or with extra funds, to market this symbol and market for Iceland and the purity of Iceland as a whole.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-14-20.u30	A respectable president. I've never felt the same way about it. Skarphéðinsson And today, I can almost agree with every word he said. He's absolutely right that the flag of Iceland developed a long time ago. I remember in my time when I was a reporter, a reporter, 203/4:30 years ago, that at that time, this very large business organization was to which he referred, which used the word 'Iceland, and ◯Icelandc, to his products. The basis for what we have today is much older, that's right. That's why it's very important not to ruin it. Whatever it is. A senator focused on a small amount of food marketing. He is absolutely correct in saying, for example, that it would be very important to use the Icelandic flag and a special label for the commercial market that would be a huge load for agricultural goods, fishing roads, etc. We agree completely on this. It must be carried out and can be done in a large market effort in addition to what has been done to promote these products. That's not the problem I mentioned earlier. I was talking about other aspects of the bill, where the bill that these involve not only food but also all other items and services as well. It's the weak link in the bill that we need to take a closer look at. I'm going to agree with that as a matter of course. A senator said earlier. The use of the Icelandic flag is extremely important, and it will benefit us greatly in many areas. We just need to be careful not to fall into the holes that are coming along.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-14-20.u31	Mr. President. Hv. A senator does not need to remind us of the time when he was here one of the top newsmen. There was an unforgettable time in the Icelandic news media, and some did not have much to do with it, which also contributed to the Golden Age. Hv. A senator could not misunderstand my speech. I wasn't contradicting what he said. I agreed, first of all, with various warnings presented in the language of the highest rank. Prime Minister. Hv. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson went further. I have full compassion for what he said. I don't think it's necessarily the purpose of this bill to sell more of the products produced in China by Icelandic companies. Let us see. First, let us slowly walk through the gates and be conservative in how we use the possibilities that may open up there. Hv. So a senator doesn't have to take my speech, so I've been criticizing him. On the contrary, I declared it - and it probably sounded like a siren song in my ears. A member of the council and former president of the Legal Guild, Brastur the Brynjar of Níelsson - that I would agree with him. A senator says that we should be conservative in these matters. It doesn't change the fact that I believe that the approval of this bill opens ways to make a permanent market in Iceland. But that's not the word I'm looking for. I don't have an English translation of the word "U.S.," which says to present Iceland as a whole so that when you see the signal, you hear a word in Iceland, there's a certain image that comes to mind thinking about purity. It is so precious in this world that we now live in, especially if we are going to stay on standards at least Europe is a very important food-making country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-14-20.u32	A respectable president. I'm also hoping that I don't get misunderstood. I'm a great sponsor of this case. I think it should have gone through at the council a long time ago. Unfortunately, this has not been the result of our conservativeness in Iceland and Congress. That's why I'm glad this case is done. All I'm saying is that I hope there's good publicity on a committee and there's a neutral view of these matters, and I insist on calling for interest. Then I'm also talking about the representatives of small enterprises and others who have a interest in this, not just the representatives of big organizations, because there's a lot to think about. There is, of course, a great record of progress in doing this, and it's amazing for most Icelandic companies who can use the Icelandic flag in the market. It tells itself that this is truly positive in this regard. However, there are other things we must not shut down in our discussion. That's all I'm pointing at.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-14-20.u33	No, I didn't get it wrong. Senator, Mr. President. I did not interpret his words in any way that he was opposed to the bill. I know why. A senator has brave members of Congress, but I don't think he has become so proud of it that he makes it up to 1st. to lie down against the bill itself. Prime Minister on the Icelandic flag, though not. First of all, I believe in the change of working, thinking that eyes are better than eyes. Because of what? A senator has pondered a number of questions that everyone is entitled to ask, and all of them are worth considering, I thought it would be quite reasonable to such a case, all of which, despite the basic issues of Icelandic life, that the Commission and Commission would also send this case for example to a professional committee and, after the events of the State Department. But I'm not gonna make any special demands. I trust the Board to address matters as well as those of others. A senator pointed out the need to consider. It's a 1st. There are many times and times, many opinions, I don't talk about matters that concern the nation's flag, and I'm sure it's all going to be taken into the skin. This is best done by obtaining additional committees, such as those listed at the council's work, in order to look at such matters from different corners.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-14-20.u34	V.E.G. President. I'm glad this bill is presented here. I think there are a lot of opportunities in this, and thank you very much for the discussion. It seems quite lonely to me, when it comes to Icelandic agriculture, that there is an enormous opportunity to support what we have learned here that we stress the purity of nature and the purity of Icelandic products. Our fish products are known for their purity because of the quality, quality of production, and the degree of hygiene and the requirements of the manufacturing process. This is also true of agriculture, and it should be included in all aspects of the land. But I'd also like to point out in this regard how precious it is that we use a little fertilizer compared to many other nations and little of the products in production. I've seen it when I've been to the United States that people talk about eating the meat of animals that are fed on hay and grass. Much of mankind never eats meat produced in these circumstances. There is something of great value we have here, and we should uphold it. Of course, we need to take a careful walk to the ground. We need to be careful that there will be signs and standards that we use for what we want to be known for, e.g. In terms of production purity and such. So I'm celebrating a coming bill and declaring my support for it. I hope there's a good discussion going on through the council and that after many attempts to get it through, we'll take care of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-14-20.u35	A respectable president. I come up here at the end to thank those who participated in the discussion for the excellent tips it contained. For example, in regard to concern about the misuse of design laws, even if products are produced abroad, it is important to remember that the bill specifically refers to the definition of design and design, as stated in the law of No. 46/2001, design. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ The right to take into account only the design of a new and unique one. So says: If individual features of design differ only in minor aspects, design is the same as any other design. Design is unique if the overall image it provides to an informed user differs from its overall image of another design that has been made available to the public for an application day...-◯, etc. In other words, it is to point out that for an object to be considered a new design, it is to enjoy the rights of a product that obviously differs considerably from those of the past. This does not make any difference, however, that the comments made here are likely to be taken into consideration and taken into account in the activities of the Committee. Then I agree with the debate as a matter of course. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson was here, reminding us that it was important that we stress what we can call a temporary image. I see what you're doing. A senator means that we may not have quite the right word for it, but that we are working on image making for Iceland and the products and services we sell and attach to that image of a specific sign.
