ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u1	Skúli Alexandersson, a former member of the council, died at the National Hospital in Reykjavík last Saturday, due to a heart attack. He was 88 years old. Skúli was born in Kjós, from Deep Louis in Smokeland on the beach, September 9, 1926. His parents were Alexander Árnason, a farmer there, and his wife, Sveinsína Ágústsdóttir' daughter of the mistress. In 1942 he completed a regional school test in Rhojanesi, a test from the Pioneer Service School in 1950, and a graduate of the 1951 Pioneer Service School. Finally, Skúli was winter after a shopkeeper at the Communicator's shop in a sheep's jar, but he agreed to meet his friend's place of prayer to come to Hellissand and work in the Communion for a while. It became the beginning of his 60 - year - old estate on Hellissandi, or all the way to make him move to Hrafnyst in Hafnarfjörður earlier this year. At the Trade Society in Sandi, Skúli served until 1955, ran a project made from 1954-◯1969, and was director of Jack Corp. ... in Hellissandifrom 1961 to the end of a partner about three decades later. At an early age of radical opinions, Skúli Alexandersson became a socialist and, later, the Common Community. He was Neshrepp's odd beacon outside Ennis in 1954-1966, 1970-1974, and 1978◯1981. Skúli was appointed on the board of the Rifi, Air Force, and the Sements Management Board, to include just a few of his public jobs. Then he came also to prepare for a national park under the glacier. Skúli Alexandersson served as a deputy member of the Federal Community in the Western District of the elections of 1971 and served as such an all - time Synod until his election was elected general of the winter election in 1979. He then sat continuously until 1991, sitting at the total of 19 legislative conventions. During the Senate, Skúli was a busy man, but he did most of his work on sea fishing and transportation. He had a lot of knowledge about the waters of the sea. Of that matter, he spoke in no uncertain terms and was trapped when the interests of his clients were playing chess. Skúli had deep roots in his hometown. When he was a member of Congress, he devoted himself to work for her, was the pioneer for travel services, and worked hard to provide instruction on Snowfells, which would otherwise be forgotten and buried. Among other things, he fired Gimli's hosting house on Hellissandi, building and operating Hotel Hellissand. He provided traveling groups around the Stingus of Snæfells with great popularity. Skúli Alexandersson was well - versed in man, strutting for all his work and hard work, strudeling at times, and wondering when much was coming to his attention. He was embittered at his joy, his laughter, and his reputation. Those qualities sustained him for the last time. His kindness and helplessness were shocked, but beyond that, his fellow travelers enjoyed Hellsand, the Snæfellsnes, and the former western district. I ask a world of council to remember Skúli Alexandersson, former General, by rising from his seats. - [[Senators rose from seats.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u2	Borist has received a letter from the head of Congress of the House of Booths for Sigrún Magnúsdóttir, 7th. Smoke. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So today, at General 1st, a deputy of the Future Party Art, Fanný Gunnarsdóttir. Fanný Gunnarsdóttir, who has once taken up residence at the General Assembly, is welcome back to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u3	A respectable president. They must be sorry for the incorruption and lack of work that would identify the greater part of the board here at the General Assembly. This reflects, among other things, that it is now a three - day weekend with an intolerable situation here at the council without any effort to negotiate on the part of the government to solve the present problem. But I have to thank the President for the meeting held on a professional committee this morning. It made it clear that there was a lack of response from the Environment Ministry that led to the failure of the available funds to prepare a legal proposal. It is therefore clear, then, that there is a completely home-to-home problem in the management sector here and that the majority of the employment committees are reassigned, researched as required by the law, and then brought back into the council for decision making. I'm the highest. To take this unnecessary issue off the program today and to address important issues in the discussion of all of us. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u4	A respectable president. I have to state with great disappointment that we are meeting here in three days' weekend, and nothing has happened in the matter of the council for two weeks. Men have expressed interest in sitting down together and trying to find a common surface, but the interest in war is much stronger in the government. It's no wonder, a respectable president, that we're in the council program, that it's all out of the calendar when the task force is like this. I must explain that I feel for a respectable president of the government to be on this most experienced route with the government, for it is their responsibility that here is chaos, both in society and in the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u5	A respectable president. Once again, we will spend the days working on this great issue completely without needing it at this point. I think that's a hell of a sentence over duty. President that we should not be properly seated and try to make some agreement on this matter or try to direct it into a positive course. I'm the head of a political party here at the council, and now we've seen that there's been a situation here for two weeks that doesn't do anyone good. I have not been invited to one meeting of the presidents of political parties to discuss this situation, not just the situation here, but the social situation. In many cases, meetings have been held just for less reason. It's become a mystery to me. What's going on, chief? President?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u6	A respectable president. Again, we will see this on the program for the council. At the same time, the coming strikes have already begun to have a very damaging effect on the tourism industry, and the damage will continue to worsen as long as this council and this government will not handle the problem adequately. During this event, the Parliament will be in this position, otherwise the smaller part will be placed in position to either have to sacrifice a framework or the tourism industry. There is a situation that can't be offered to people, neither to Congress nor to anyone else. We're set between a rock and a sledgehammer, and we can't get out of that position while this case is on. It is clear and only becomes brighter in time. It is urgent that the High General, the Honorable President, and the Supreme Court. The government gathers and tries to direct this council to the areas in which it is urgent, including the workforce and the rest of our industry.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u7	A respectable president. Of course, it is of great concern that the time over the Pentecostal weekend has not been used for any attempt to negotiate the continuation of Congress work and can't be continued as divorced on Friday, with the fact that the program has been unscheduled, and that no other program of Congress has been established. I am also deeply concerned about the position of these all, together, that at this morning's meeting of the employment committee, there has been confirmation from the head of Project Management Board that there was no clear information from the Ministry that money was available to continue working on the framework until February this year. The failure of the government is such that it has not even contributed to the fact that money is available to carry out the tasks it claims to be concerned about. All she can do is present an unsurpassed and unsurpassed proposal for continuation. [[The president calls.]] Is it really hope that you will ask what route the government's greater part of this matter is?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u8	Mr. President. I admit that I find it shocking that the weekend was not new to discuss possible solutions to how we are going to continue the activities of the General Assembly and that once again the same matters are on schedule, cases of complete conflict, not only because of content, but also because of the compromise and format of the modification form of more part of the Parliament's employment committee, adjustments made in the motions we have made repeatedly to comment that we do not pass the legal framework and, of course, do not meet the requirements for good practices. What I've heard of a meeting with him. This morning's job committee will support this. Mr. President. I still make comments on this program. Again and again, I comment that we should take advantage of the council's time for this matter. We did not recommend a workforce to discuss the situation here, since we have understood that the greater part of the Council is not interested in discussing the job market, and in view of the decision made by the executives this weekend, it does not surprise me, Mr. President. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u9	A respectable president. I made sure that this weekend I kept my phone close to me and put it on a phone call. There were a lot of people who called, but no one to solve the situation here at the council, no one from the greater part. I was surprised at it, I must say it exactly as it is. I expected people to remember last Friday as much as possible trying to find some surface in solving the council of this hostage, but it wasn't. It's getting easier every day that we're stuck in this house-made clip. The majority and president of the council came to her with both eyes open here two weeks ago while the situation in society was the same as it was. We are expecting important matters from the secretary of finance for the release of the sea. It matters what the atmosphere of the council will be like when it comes in here. The situation in the labour market is serious and becomes more serious. First to the highest. Before the first speaker enters a chair and goes out of the hall, the prime minister will do when this discussion begins because he is not interested in hearing one single speech, no comment from the smaller part of the council. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u10	A respectable president. The weekend's peak took place. During a class of studies, the nation's prime minister, or his grasp of reality, cut between his senses and his realities. I think the highest. The prime minister should examine himself and reflect on the reality of what is out here. The reality out here is that it's been 48 days since the state hasn't made a deal with major groups in BHM. In reality, nurses are starting a strike at midnight tonight. It's getting better. The prime minister is that he does not have to address the matter, let alone discussing it with the council, that is none of our concern, and that people should just wait for the general markets. In fact, I think the highest senses. The prime minister in this case is that way; at least he speaks as if the State had nothing to do with this quarreling over his head. The Kingdom is an negotiater to these parties. The government is responsible for this. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. That's what we do in the smaller part here at the Council wants to talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u11	Mr. President. At this morning's employment committee meeting, it was very clear to the chairman of the project that we should wait patiently for the benefits under which they would be returned to the Council in the fall of 2016, that there could be no quick treatment with that matter, and these benefits should be given the professional coverage they deserve, and that would be essential for us to follow the laws we set for ourselves here in January 2013. I was hoping that after this meeting at the job station, we would discuss matters, taking into account what was presented, that these big and urgent matters could not be handled quickly. Also, it was observed that it was probably a mistake to take these eight assets into one of the short - term treatments because the methodology used by the project management could not have been used for so little. [[The president calls.]] But now this work would be full, and the council should not be mixing in it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u12	President. I want to be like a couple of dogs. Councilmen before me describe my frustration that during the last three days, I have not been used to try to smell something on this matter. It is the role of those who control, not merely to control and decide, saying that much of the part is in charge but to try to solve matters. Here's a case that's in a single-scale fix. When the council went home by weekend, it was in complete confusion, a respectable president, none of us are doing. I'm going to hope that people start seeing each other and try to settle this case and apply the procedures established in this case a long time ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u13	A respectable president. I'd like to consult with a president, since this week begins on Tuesday, and it's political agitation in the community and at the council, asking for a council meeting. The third week of the same discussion cannot be started without us getting a chance to recruit our council on the council. This has not only been held with members of the council but also with a meeting on a professional committee this morning, which brought up the recent reports. I don't think there's anything we can do but get to meet our people and put together strings ahead of us. So it is when the weeks begin on Mondays. Then we meet with the president's council members at a lunch meeting, followed by meetings in the council. That's what I do for the highest. The president gives space for conference parties, to form the end of an unprepared question period.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u14	The president is trying to translate an English expression that makes marvelous thoughts similar. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] The President intends to cease the half hour of this conference after the unprepared inquiry.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u15	Mr. President. It is good to know that the president is going to grant this request. When you think about how the days are over and looking ahead to the immediate future, you see nothing more than this particular matter because the president of the council has decided to take it on the program, of course, it is in his power to take it off again and to make peace within its ranks, primarily about the fact that the matter will be taken over. It is sad, of course, that there was no agreement or reconciliation or anything like that this weekend, and there was really no searching for anything. I think, in view of the words of prime minister, he was most waiting for a new nation, but I think it's the nation that needs a new prime minister, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u16	Mr. President. It is very strange after three days of the weekend to continue with this matter for the third week rather than use these three days to make peace. After all, for a time it is a political battle. They're changing time here at the council, spending the duration of the council because they haven't agreed on when it will be finally completed, etc. It can be extended without breaking a long-term policy framework. It can be done. There are solutions. I've heard a lot of them. All you need to do is sit down and be ready to review the time that last smaller things were lost and say that you lost because of the last government's actions and then you go over how much time you can make and sit down and take a look at that time. This conversation hasn't happened. Why doesn't this conversation take place over the weekend? Why do we need to start a new week in strife? Everyone's responsible in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u17	Mr. President. I am among those who were rather sad to come to this program today, after what has happened. True, it took place this weekend to the highest level. Then came the prime minister, who had much advertised and asked for a discussion at the council. He came to the media search, thus providing a series of telegrams and lists that focused on the nation, the labor movement, and the government's opposition. True, he tried to eat some of it again this morning. You ask yourself, " Who's with the highest? ' Prime Minister? It's not the people. It's not the labor movement or the labour market party. At least it's not the government side. He'll score forever. I think the board has to start putting you on the highest level. Prime Minister in the defense so that he does not cut to his own ends indefinitely. It must simply begin to do so. If there is a gap between reality and perception, it is by prime minister who reads such things as this, that he intends to improve better for the weekend by throwing bombs in all directions. Mr. President. This situation must somehow begin to be bonded, and it must be met despite the national prime minister's efforts, not because of it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u18	A respectable president. What's going on? I asked earlier. What is explained by this cross - sensibilities in the council administration? I have a theory. From this government and the administrative part of the government, my attention and attention have come to a very small number, some of which are good, but in many respects very negative in view of the situation in the community. Today, a work schedule has been canceled. I don't think that's what I'm thinking because we're arguing about a frame plan, that's just because the case that the government has put out is not out of the committee. There are 46 primes still on the committee. The committees don't discuss the President's conference board or anything like that, they're just working. Why hasn't it come out of committees? There are only 22 serious cases from the government that are awaiting release. The fact is, there is a crisis in society. The government's not doing anything. Nothing has come from her. She's naked. This controversy here is used to cover that fact. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So we're just here on some show. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u19	Mr. President. At midnight, a nurse's strike begins at the Land Hospital. This is mentioned in a strike that has now appeared in the eighth week by many professionals in the hospital. For the past two weeks we have been discussing a proposal that should not be on the program, but we have repeatedly requested a report from the Prime Minister on the job market so that we can talk to him at the Hall of Congress about the way the government is handling this situation. V.E.G. The prime minister has not given much attention to this request, but he moved a fistula to the Waver's radio station and was then interviewed. I propose, chief. President, that in defense of the council, the president will ask for it before the prime minister runs from house to house here, and he will give us such a report. It can do this tomorrow, which is the first day of a nurse's strike.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u20	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson's son will often end his talks by saying that at some point he would suggest that the members of the Council's Committees will normally be opened. It would have been very desirable this morning to witness to a meeting of the employment committee so that everyone could have been on the same page to the information presented there, especially the administrative part. I understand that it made it very clear that a project management could complete a review of the priming options being made in September 2016. I understand that land induction reported that she could not start working with activation number 2, i.e. activation after Impulse reactivation, Holtic activation, earlier than 2018, after three years. So you must ask yourself, " What is the main issue of government? ' Why do directors need to complete Holtic activation at the time of 2015? They have a whole year and more in order to wait for the results of an assignment government. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This is incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u21	V.E.G. President. Yesterday, I visited the General Web to study the Senate program today, and I have to admit that there was such a certain hope in my heart when I saw that the program had not been announced, that there was now someone working to try to figure out how we got out of the stand at the council. That hope failed. We see the same program, the same order from the highest. The president and we are not allowed to discuss the strikes or the situation there. We just have to listen to misinformation in the media. The prime minister says that there may be an option for raising taxes, resulting in the morning's interview at the highest level. A minister of finance who claims to have no intention of raising taxes, rather than paying taxes, is part of action. Sitting here at the General Assembly of the Icelanders, 63 senators, and it's like watching a table tennis game while the senators listen to a statement from the Supreme Court. advisers on what to do, but they keep the council completely out of discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u22	V.E.G. President. I agree with those who have come up on the platform and expressed disappointment in saying that there was nothing here on this three - day weekend vacation we're coming out of. To tell you the truth, I didn't believe it. Councilmen sat down under the highest command. President, try to come up with some solution. So I am so disappointed that we should be back here again at exactly the same place as it seems that we divorced on Friday. I find, though, some comfort in being the highest. The president's plans to interrupt a meeting later so it's at least possible to hold a council meeting and review the situation. I think I can speak on behalf of a lot of us when we say that we just didn't expect to meet here on Tuesday and things like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u23	The President just wants to inform us that there will be a half hour off to the council meeting after the unprepared inquiry.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u24	A respectable president. Let's go over time here. It has been observed that if the administrative part had not been involved in this expedition, it would be likely that there would have been an approved whale here in December. After nine months, according to the advertised online task plan, professional groups will return their next round, i.e. third round of project management sequences, less than 30 options. As a result, the project administration will take them and organize them and bring them to a minister who will then be appointed in the autumn Council. Then this morning it was also noted that Landingal Implementation itself indicates that the next available option following the Impulsion is that it will not be able to attack until 2018. I ask myself, " How does the administrative part feel about this reality because of the way he works here and decides to ignore all the talk about the big issues? ' [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u25	Mr. President. Several factors were presented at a meeting of the employment committee, and I thought it would be expected that we could go over it with our people right after that meeting to process it, that there was some purpose in this meeting that I still hope was, that we were looking for solutions. To me, it was clear as if in Landic activation, we were supposed to follow the legal process of a frame plan, so it's up to us. She identified who would be interested in buying energy from land activation and listing various scenarios. These include a factory of 300 megawatts and aluminium creatures in Helguvík to over 600 megawatts. Are these the forms we want to look to? [[The president calls.]] I don't think so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u26	Mr. President. You ask yourself, " What do the people of this country want to talk about now? ' What do they want to hear, especially after the weekend? Don't they want to hear about a frame plan? No, party, maybe they'd like to hear about the job market, especially in the light of the Supreme Officers. Prime Minister this weekend. We've been calling for the highest. Prime Minister, report to the council. You can just put it on schedule, just ahead of this framehysteria, to continue with it here instead of giving the President a clear message to the party that this will not be scheduled. At least we could take a break on this program and start working on more basic matters until people agree on something. Of course, there is a solution to this dispute, but there seems to be no one meeting. This weekend the president could have put the chair in front of the door and said: "You need to meet, I'm not going to take it on at the council until you have some plan on making peace. It could have been done, and the president could also have arranged for Prime Minister to come here and give us a report on what is going on in the labour market and how he sees that this issue can be resolved. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u27	A respectable president. It has been a mystery to all of us, however, how the administrative body would like to have a framework for a program at the council. Of course, the answer became clear to everyone this weekend. The reason is obvious, the administrative part wants to keep the prime minister from discussing collective agreements or the relevant matters. For everyone to see that it is better not to do so. Thank you for giving the time to a council meeting afterwards. I think it's helpful to be advised by men, but I'm putting my first admonition to fall away from having this matter on the agenda and drawing attention to the grave silence of government officials. None of them try to put in a public talk and defend the conditions that have been created or the legal features here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u28	Mr. President. It is not overhistory, as revealed in the media this weekend, that the Ministers speak out and south, i.e. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Prime Minister and secretary of finance. When it comes to having a contract offer, the mayor of the government tells the government that he receives his commission to the minister of finance rather than prime minister because of the way the latter spoke in the media. It's just one of many things that we've seen. I experience that we are in a waiting room, not in a council hall, because the government has not won its affairs so that they can be brought in to the council, the people who are supposed to have something to do, whether they're in a chicken shop or something like that or if they're out of control. Meanwhile, we wait and we're taken to play by putting this matter on the schedule every day. I'm happy to see if the local Environment Minister has any idea of hearing members of the Parliament to look for a solution. I hope he does. And then I remind you that today the people are going to talk in the East Field, including... to prime minister. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u29	Mr. President. I'm convinced that if it's the best. The president of this issue, with the leaders of the opposing council groups, found a solution. First of all, it has been made clear here that the information published on the job committee this morning shows that Legislation does not intend to attack Holtic activation until 2018, long after 26 benefits have occurred and done with the task management. Second, it would be good for all to examine what is going on with the project management. I have. Then it turns out that there are, in fact, three, first definitions of specific non-sized studies, secondly a surveillance program of land activation, and third, the response of Land activation to what measures it will take if counter-importation measures fail. I find this matter very simple to consider, and it is possible to do relatively quickly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u30	A respectable president. Based on the information presented at the time of the episode. This morning's employment committee, as well as the discussion that has taken place here today, and with all this legal arrangement and with all the time we've spent at the council to discuss this matter, and with the position in the labour market, and the imminent problems that result directly from this, you have to wonder why. Why does it require the highest order? A government that this matter is on the agenda? The only thing that I can think of after all this time and all this discussion, and this information is that it's done to waste the duration of the Senate in the first place and second, to blame the council so that they can point out to the council and say, "Look what the smaller part is bad, he's just wasting time on it while we're trying to get some other projects, which the government obviously isn't doing what we can best see. Corrected anyone better, but put them in a purse and discuss it rather than the cursed things that are going on here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u31	Mr. President. I think we have a problem getting together or getting somewhere with the council's work in two men more than anybody else, i.e. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Prime Minister, who weathers here like a kid with a gas can and a match and then lights fire all over the place, and then president of a professional network that still sends a note, this afternoon on the Federal TV lunch news. If there is a breach between reality and perception, then it is also a problem. A senator, for he makes the adjustment of the majority's proposal to a standard, thus not counting the constitution as it was presented. No, the standard is the adjustment, the uncontracted, ridiculous change proposal from him himself, and the majority have become particularly reasonable and have stretched far by falling away from water generation. So it is set up, all the blame is put on others, the Witnesses are nowhere to self - criticism, and the headline of the story is pointed out. A Senator: A lawsuit - what? Not his own, not the greater part, no, the cause of my cause is shame. How do we get ahead now, Mr. President, with such a pointy mind? [[The president calls.]] I think it's perfectly clear that neither the head of the employment committee nor the highest. Prime Ministers are involved in negotiations for the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u32	A respectable president. I just want to draw attention to the fact that we've been on this rock here, which some call a filibuster, but I call protests, to support the proposal of an environmental minister. That's what the least part of the council has been doing. We are supporting the proposal of the Environment Minister because the Environment Minister properly evaluated, whether it is correct wording or not, the law on how a framework plan should be conducted and decided. On the one hand, he considered it, or understood it correctly, and offered the suggestion accordingly, and then, although he might have wanted to do something else, he would appreciate what would happen here if an unfortunate offer, such as the one presented by a large part of the professional trade committee, would be presented. That's why the Environment Minister was very sensible, and I hope there's a solution to this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u33	Consider: Prime Minister, health minister, social and housing minister, and marine economist and agricultural ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u34	A respectable president. There is no need to have many comments about the serious conditions in the workplace that are becoming worse every day. We are facing a medical strike tonight, and the well - being of the sick has become very upset. Wherever you come, people are deeply concerned about the job market situation and the consequences of major strikes will affect the economy, the work of people, and the well - being of all of us. Of course, when we are under such circumstances, it is important to make a good offer. V.E.G. During the weekend, the prime minister performed three times in the interview, if it seems right to me, and made every effort to destroy the efforts in the labour market to find a solution. At the end of the weekend, the media had become a matter of independent reporting to the people in response to the latest tests. Prime Minister to destroy the discussion. That's why I want to give the highest. I think we all want to solve this problem. We in the Union have stressed some of the things that must be meant to be paid for solutions in these situations: putting low - income and intermediate payers in place by changes in the tax system, helping tenants with more supply of rent supplies and higher rent settlements, fair-designing the macroil and other common resources so that they can gain a righteous share in that profit, and making it easier for small and medium-sized companies to raise pay and hire more people by reducing insurance costs. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister: Is there not some basis for these ideas that we could relate to? Is it not important for us to try here, on the contrary, to lay the groundwork for a solution to the challenges we face?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u35	A respectable president. The objective is to lay the groundwork for good solutions. Hence, the State has been willing to examine different approaches, including some of them as well as some of them. A senator mentioned here, but always referred to it in the context of the need to be in order to improve the collective agreements, to improve the outcome for the employee. Because of what? A senator specifically mentioned nurses here we must agree that we need them to live in the country's ideals and conditions that we keep in these people, we don't lose them. Much of this must be done to prevent any possible compensation, possible raises, in current contracts from being eaten up by inflation. That is why we suggest that if the workforce or people are concerned with losing it, the economic situation will become worse, the inflation will go on and off, such as nurses who will then lose on this trend, both directly by making their income less money, and by increasing debt, everything will be more expensive. It is not possible to create such people with security or a good job position in Iceland. Therefore, the common objective of all of us must be that the conclusion of these discussions leads to real improvement.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u36	A respectable president. You're absolutely right at the highest. Prime Minister that it is very important that the result of the panic in the labour market now be no trouble and that everyone has to contribute to it, not just the open agreements, but the government as well. Because of the highest. The minister's words are also inevitable when he says: "Yes, but it is not that only nurses are responsible for preventing inflation or that they are now open to agreements. Of course, it is the government's decisions that have caused us not to get the maximum of our resources to the public, that we do not return the tax as fair as we might be doing, that is the decisions that cause agitation and anger. Today, at five o'clock, thousands of people are preaching. When you see people say they want to protest, it's corruption, that's the decision to give the mackerel, and they're unhappy with the pay grade in the community. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There are facts at the height. The prime minister must be serious. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u37	A respectable president. In case of a moment. A senator's interest in the facts is here at least two: Iceland's Testimony is one of the greatest in the world and has increased, the equation has increased in the history of this government, and the government's approach to treaties today will probably be to increase the equation. In case of a moment. A senator's interest in other facts can be noted that it is not only wrong; it is outright presumptuous and dishonest to argue that our money from resources has been reduced. Because I assume that society's abducted by a fishing road. A senator has never been more than that. It has saved many financial failures that would otherwise have resulted. Speaking of facts, a respectable president. It is a fact that has long been in progress and has been courted three weeks ago by the chairman of the State Convention Committee, of course, to see what was going to happen in the public market before the public market could be negotiated on a much higher than it has been proposed. [[The president calls.]] That's all the facts, a respectable president. [[The president calls.]] And it would be good to do so if we were to do so. A senator would like to make a good recommendation, as he states here, that he would accept the facts. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u38	Mr. President. The strange news has become that the media are under the financial and economic cost ratings of a bill at the highest level. Social and housing minister on housing reforms. According to reports from the media, the Ministry of Economics and Economics has made a significant comment on the bill. Ministers, among other things, that the bill, if it becomes law, will benefit primarily from the higher income of families rather than from the income, which, though, is the stated purpose of the highest. A minister she has described here at councils and elsewhere. However, according to the news reports on the bill, there is a need to reimburse income - stock laws or to make changes in the government's extra payments in an equation so that the bill can become a law. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister here, who had an excellent discussion about his perspective on housing last week for a special discussion, whether it agrees with the views we hear of at the financial and economic expense assessment, i.e. In agreement that the bill does not achieve its declared goal, and that is why it is being continued on the bill. Is the bill still working to meet such comments? If the highest. A minister does not agree with these comments, so we expect to see the bill at the council right now, so we, eh? Senators, can we better understand what the bill is, or do we expect it to continue in progress, and we may not see it until the next assembly? If this is the case, then the news is under control, and now it can be the highest. Minister here, and if these are not correctly understood to be financial and economic comments to this bill, do we expect to see the bill in the same form here at the council? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u39	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter for the inquiry. Like what? A senator well knows the length of time when a bill on the changed housing support of the Ministry of Health has been performed. The current bill, as considered, is in line with the recommendations made by the EEA projection programme on housing arrangements and the Annexes specifically accompanied by their report, and this is also consistent with the results of a multi-organized committee working during the last term on the changed housing arrangements. Regarding what has been discussed recently, I think it is very important to keep it in mind that man has not seen the whole bill. There's a list of key indicators responsible for the calculation of housing improvements. It is more difficult to contribute to a significant improvement in the quality of the quality of the budget and to increase the cost of home income as family size is taken into consideration. In this way we react to the fact that rent - rent cost has increased substantially in recent years as people's housing costs have dropped and the number of tenants has increased substantially; these are now 2015 in nearly 25% of the country's homes. The increase in renters in general market is, therefore, most likely among them, and with an increase in basic improvements support them considerably increase. At the same time, it is endeavoring to meet a larger tenant group that has increased housing costs for family size. Although the bill is mainly designed to improve housing support for less - income families and individuals, the goal is also to balance public housing support with different habitats, as I have repeatedly improved here. [[The president calls.]] This will mean that a larger group will be entitled to new housing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u40	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for clarifying his view of this matter. I understand it so that the results of the Ministry of Economics and Economic Affairs that the bill is primarily useful to the earner over the income - the highest secretary here speaks of the benefit of the bill being a larger group than before, but first and last of all, the more efficient. V.E.G. Economic and economic ministers have yielded that housing matters can be an important factor in working out the labour market. Nevertheless, we hear of the same Ministry's review that there is considerable work to be done, that will change the law on farm members, change the balance fund, and so on. Is this something of the highest order? Minister's been working on it? Is this work that's left? I also asked the highest. Minister: Will we now see this bill at this assembly? I think it's getting really urgent that we get clear answers on whether the bill is at the top. Minister of society and housing please report to this council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u41	A respectable president. I thank you again for the questions and the repetition of previous questions. It has been observed, both from the highest level. Prime Minister and secretary of finance and myself, that changes in the housing system can be an important factor in helping with collective agreements, responding to the difficult conditions of the labour market. That's what we all agree on in the government. So we have a completely lonely attitude toward the approach of these matters. We are to take advantage of this opportunity to make good decisions in this difficult situation and at the same time improve the status of our households. It has also been shown, both here at Parliament and elsewhere, to work together in consultation with the labour market partners and with the European Union member countries to agree on the arrangements we are going to take on housing matters. I've said about the bill that we have in our hands that it could come out here, let's hope it happens as soon as possible. [[The president calls.]] However, in terms of changing the law on economistry, there are other matters to discuss with the rural communities about their farms, and that will probably be one of the things that will come into the income side of the budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u42	A respectable president. I'd like to direct a question to the highest. Sea dignitary and agricultural minister, not in the litigation but in the case of a trolley discussion at the council today, i.e. A frame plan. It may be too much to say that. Ministers are responsible for the situation here at the council, but he is at least a messenger of the proposal under consideration to suggest that the waitingness of the waiting party be changed on the basis of a projection proposal. V.E.G. Ministers very well support this in their synonym and report to her why he merely suggests that this advanced activation option will be implemented, i.e. due to lack of data. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister whether the main premise to appear in a paper with the Senate resolution proposal is not yet available, i.e. the lack of the necessary data is still lacking. I'd also like to have the Minister's general assessment of the changes made by a greater part of the employment committee, whether they are in line with the spirit of the Law on the Framework Programme, and if it is desirable for the council to make such a dramatic change in proposals that have gone through the whole process, so that there are three priming options of the four involved in the proposal did not go through as strongly as the survey. On the fall day, a minister suggested that they be transferred from waiting party to a novelty party.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u43	A respectable president. That's what happened to you. The leader of the class is no longer in my hands. It is true that in the fall of the matter in the council, I suggested that the only option proposed by the Management Board to be transferred to a novelty party would also be part of the Senate resolution made by that minister. This is because the legal device around how the project can behave is quite clear, as it were, and in order for a minister to make adjustments in this, it would have to have made some adjustment to the Ministry's observation, to new evidence that has truly been made, since then, and to other advantages. That was an option. At the same time, it has to have a 12-week review process, so my opinion and attitude of them, and it has not changed since then, was that the Law on the European Commission's procedure is very clear. I thought it would be more important to get the case into the council than to wait for that 12-week narrative and perhaps get the case in now. However, the legal pattern in the treatment of the council is very different. Of course, they are the main members of Congress. Of course, the council can make decisions that they almost want to, as we know and make in countless matters. Therefore, I have made no comment about the fact that the Senate committee, which suggests other advantages, has provided the information it has, among other things, obtained at committee meetings and with reviews, that there is nothing wrong with offering more advantages. There have been new information, both from the authors and from various sources, strengthening the way of the Council Committee. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u44	A respectable president. That's why it's asked: Ministers agree with the spirit of the law to make such dramatic changes during the council, from whether it is legalistically possible in the force of Congress to perform elaborate modifications, enormously important? Laws have a primary objective, i.e. that these things are done in harmony, as much as possible. I'd like to ask the highest, too. Minister on what was presented at a meeting of the employment committee this morning, that national inactivation could not start Holtic activation, Implement Number 2, as suggested by the employment committee, until three years later, and that the project management could complete their view of other options in September of the next year. Why are we in such a hurry? Is not right, chief. Minister, putting these activation options aside and giving the task management a chance to complete their work because it will not affect the order of implementation? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u45	A respectable president. Now it is time to review that Project Management of Framework 2 suggested that all the activation options discussed, outside Hag water activation and lower Hallow wound activation at Atley, be a member of the colony. It was then the political decision of the last government to take them out, put them in a review process, and argue that many would have had something against these activations, so they would be taken out. In fact, we know it from history books. A former minister of state suggested that it was just a political horse trade for the last government. There is certainly evidence to support the benefits of a project administration. This was done in Table 2. So it can be said that the task management has dealt with this in a frame plan. See, there was no reconciliation here in the last term, of course. After a long discussion, it came to the conclusion that the greater part had its success, and now we are discussing it again and again in a similar way. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There is a conflict, and it is only natural for a person to come up with a solution. [[The president calls.]] But there is no claim that there was no professional practice on the way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u46	A respectable president. It's like the highest. A minister may know that there are bound to be more strikes and such as the highest. A minister may also know it is a situation when the workforce is having a negative impact. What I wanted to ask the highest. A minister on whether something has been discussed in the government or in any way done to address the fact that this most important industry, or at least one of the most important, has suffered the least damage caused by the impending strike. It's like the highest. A minister may know that there is no need for more publicity about future strikes in order to influence the decision of foreign tourists to which destination they choose. People don't imagine on vacation going to the airports for a long time, hanging around and having trouble doing the simplest things because of a strike. It's here to take a vacation, not to work here with us against strikes or to improve or anything like that, so it has a very negative impact on tourism. Travel service is a new industry that does not necessarily tolerate many traumas. Many small companies cannot cope with many traumas. I wondered, " Is it time, first of all, that the high Council will intervene and discuss matters with the aim of restricting the capacity of existing strikes and future strikes in the industry? ' But I also wondered if the highest. A government is doing something in the group of paintings and is in some way prepared for this important industry to suffer a significant damage to a strike that will hopefully be the least in the immediate future.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u47	A respectable president. Hv. A member in particular asks about the travel services and the situation in the area because of the impending strike and whether the government has done something special to cope with it. Mainly, tourism is the public market. IT IS a large deal of business with unions regarding tourism. However, as mentioned above, governments have made themselves available to establish these agreements in various ways, i.e. We have declared ourselves ready to examine several different factors, but we would like to have the government's proposal to defend economic stability here, and I am not at all referring to prices, i.e. does not contribute to inflation that is most damaging to natural employee. We have also stressed that the results of collective agreements will also be used to protect and increase the balance in the country, and hence support the efforts of the most supportive, heard from me, both in part of the employee and professional drivers, that in particular the lowest paid position. Travelers have a number of jobs, which include low - paying jobs or, at least, those under average income. They fall under the government's emphasis that men especially try to right the wrongs of those who have done little. Therefore, the government is ready to arrive there and be prepared to examine various ways to do so, but most of all, we want to avoid the spread of inflation because of the worst impact on low income groups.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u48	A respectable president. So I put it clearly, I wasn't doing the highest. Minister for some solution to some struggles within the tourist industry. I don't think foreign tourists really care about inflation as long as they don't think it's too adverse. However, what is already happening is that the tourism industry is beginning to suffer damage from the mention of future strikes and the failure of the government, apparently, and of course the high Council. That alone, i.e. what appears to be inactivity has a very negative impact on the way foreign tourists view the country. What I'm trying to do here is that I think we need some kind of response plan to the damage the tourist industry is going to suffer, and I wondered about the best attitude. A minister to it, not a solution to the strikes itself, but a response plan to make the message clear to foreign tourists and the companies who specialise themselves in tourism that this is done first to try to avoid strikes and second, after that, or how these things go together, the state is prepared to communicate well enough with the tourists' parties so that it is easier to encourage foreign travelers to come back here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u49	A respectable president. Governments have shown various support for Iceland's tourism and marketing, and they will continue to do so and will need some special effort on that subject, no doubt the government will again be willing to participate. Most important, tourism companies get caught, that we provide them with an environment here that allows them to thrive, and that they can pay a decent salary. The most important factor, then, is the fact that when the decision is reached in collective agreements, it will be a failure to allow the companies to continue working here with reasonable results and to pay a reasonable amount of pay. Although tourists are not concerned about inflation, they do. The senator then has to do with the inflation of a gang, as he only came on, but we cannot look primarily to the fact that tourists are concerned about inflation. We must think that this is where people can be prepared that they can work in tourism and build it up for the future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u50	V.E.G. President. There's been a serious tenure situation. It's been a few hours. Rent prices have gone up, especially because of the lack of rented houses, while the number of renters has increased. As these circumstances have increased, the crisis between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Economic Affairs has increased as a result of the provisional projector of social and housing. In effect, this conflict is a picture of a conflict between the government parties in housing. One specific bill of four of the improvements in housing has not been released from the government, but someone has chosen to leak the financial cost to the press. According to the SpV, the newsroom, the Ministry believes that the bill does not achieve its objective, but the objective of housing would be to match the support of people regardless of their home location, to provide additional support to the incomeiest and support to the tenants in the middle space that do not get rents but would be able to get interest if they had their own housing. It follows that the fourth bill has to be shown, about stock grants, that contributes to more rented and lower rent costs. Then there are the nonprofit enterprises, which are said to be public services. I'd like to start by asking the highest. Minister of two questions. First and foremost, I'd like to ask her if the financial agency's interpretation of the bill is right for her and if things need to be changed to achieve their aims. However, if she intends to accept the current government budget for the council, which does not allow for the expenses necessary for the legalisation of the bill. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u51	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigríður Ingadóttir for her inquiry. As I went through earlier, the purpose of the bill is two-way, like a quirk. A senator mentioned, i.e. One is to increase housing support for less - income families and individuals and to balance public housing to make real choices. There we are looking forward to the growing numbers of people in rented homes. In 2007 there were more than 15% of families in rented homes, but in 2013 the ratio was nearly 25%. Both sociologists and Habitat biography study, also used in social references, suggest that more than 22% of renters in the public market are under little income control, compared with nearly 6% of families in their own housing. There's a big difference. What we've been working on is facing this changed reality in the housing market. There we are based on the hard work that has been going on during this terms and on the work being done during the last terms. What we have been doing now in a great deal of cooperation with the labour market partners is trying to get together on how we can guarantee all homes security, housing security. This is a huge deal. There have been very frequent meetings over the past few weeks to work together on how to handle this situation. I believe that the bill as it will show when it happens will meet exactly what I mentioned and what will be emphasized in this great consultation within the Ministry and now with the labour market parties. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] In terms of the government budget, I assume it will take changes in accordance with the results of the consultations that take place in terms of collective agreements. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u52	V.E.G. President. In other words, the budget needs to change, and social and housing minister's evaluations of the Ministry of finance feel that the bill will not achieve its objectives. It is now that when you think about what's going on with the government, you turn on the radio, either the RUS or the Wave, since we rarely get the information in the conference. It's kind of pathetic. So it was with the home bill, this, one of the four that we've been waiting for a long time. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Why does she think someone has chosen to leak this assessment on Our Kingdom News? However, I would like to ask her: Is it not time for the social and housing minister to take control of the housing talk and put in place the bill here so that we can discuss it at a judicial level? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] [[Go for it, Eygló!]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u53	A respectable president. Thank you for the inquiry. I don't know who's decided to share the financial charge. Then I want to reiterate and stress that we are working on a solution to these issues. We're working on that solution in close cooperation with the Ministry of Presidency, the Ministry of Economics, the European Union of Company -- that is not to be forgotten when we talk about governments that we also own our rural communities, they are very important - and then we're in the company of the labour market. I really hope and think that all who are observing this work hope that that that conversation will lead to good results in a difficult position in the labour market, and of course, the council will come to legalize the necessary changes that must be followed by consultation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u54	Madam President. I'd like to protest that once again we have a frame plan on the program, as well as news of why. A pro board I heard on the noon news. That's what it says. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, chairman of the Committee, is so important that it is so important to engage in the Þjórðar and, among other things, by the need for energy to move forward factories in Helgavíkíkur, and by Bountys. I'd like to know if there's anything I can do. In the southern part of the country, local council officials reviewed it. The rural areas in the South have emphasized that if you apply to the Þjórður, the energy will be used in the province. I'd like to ask the president, Has he researched all of this and what debates do not only arise here in this room but also throughout the country will be the reality of what is proposed here?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u55	Madam President. While there is considerable uncertainty in society and a great protest is being made at eastern level, we continue to keep up - to - date. 5 today. Councilmen choose to carry on in here at the council, and you ask yourself, " Is this the famous butter pot? Is it in recycling with this government from the past, or are people so realistic that they can walk past the framework laws and continue with these changes offered to a greater part of the trade committee? I hope it comes down to something, but I just want to say that, in my part, we're not going to be able to do this kind of work. There's nothing to wait for, we don't.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u56	Madam President. It's not overhistory that this is not what we want to be doing, the government side, and I don't believe the government would want to be doing this, i.e. talk about the same subject, talk about our not wanting it to be on schedule, and that is because we want the law to be followed. That's what it's all about. It is about taking into account the fact that a project management is allowed to discuss matters according to the spirit of the law rather than just pinch out the things that are more suitable for most of the workaholics and do them when there are reasons why they feel they can add all these advantages. It would be a good thing to conclude that the matter would be taken off schedule and set out on a subject that is far more relevant to the nation these days. I'm afraid we're going to hear a lot of good in the East Field people, and then she'll probably not pick up the government's greeting, i.e. the prime minister may realize that he is the one to examine, not the whole nation, but himself.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u57	Madam President. I make comments again on the program and as I understand that a meeting took place. Work committees then have no compelling reason to speed up this process as much as possible. Business committees have proposed. There are no compelling reasons why we will spend the time at General Assembly to discuss these matters. The project management will produce 26 benefits in the fall of 2016, which the General will then be able to provide for a discussion. This battle that we have is primarily about taking things out of the kind of procedure that has been decided and put down by law and trying to drive against some kind of rush treatment, against the rules, and against all the good and careful practices. There is concern that we are going to spend the time of the Generals on this, in some matter that is about to become a subject of pride. Senators. That's not a good use of time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u58	Madam President. As an optimist of nature, I expected this meeting after a council meeting to begin with an announcement from a president of some sort of conclusion or landing or a decision that would be taken over the past two weeks, and they would turn to other important tasks. Now that these bright hopes of me have been taken away by the silence of the president, I'm afraid to say a lot of silence, then I feel a little suspicious, so you can now declare your emotions right here in a speech chair. I'm beginning to imagine that there is some kind of work force here, and I'm just going to see how far we can go by having a perfectly incompetent suggestion. There must be a announcement from the President about the next phase.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u59	A respectable president. I'd like to start by asking if any of the members of the board's council meetings are not necessarily finished because their members are missing here outside the highest level. President and w. paritaprevir Will Bjarnason, who is here. I think it's important that you come in here and have a conversation about this, because while you're at it, it's gonna be okay. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson in one of the media after another today and sends us such telegrams that it is absolutely clear that he is not interested in trying to communicate with us on the road forward in these matters, none. That's the message we get here. I want it confirmed by other members of the government that it is, and then it's just a decision that we face, and then let it go. At the same time, it is seen that after nine months, professional groups will come to their conclusions about less than 30 areas, an initiating option in the country, and then they will be processed and returned to the council. [[The president calls.]] In view of the facts, I don't understand this too much, nor do I understand the notices we receive in the media from the Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u60	V.E.G. President. It seems that after the weekend's lack of communication and what you hear happened at the moment, it's coming to light. A professional board this morning that the purpose of the program is simply to destroy a framework. There is nothing else that can be read out of what is happening, so it is natural for us to protest in the lesser part. At least I'm all I can do but wait to the highest level. President for the meeting now to be postponed, at least until some of the members of the board are here, so that the matter can be discussed in any way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u61	A respectable president. I would have thought they were what they were doing. The members of the major part of the office meeting this morning were eager to come up here and explain what happened to the head of Project Management Board this morning, his argument that this would continue in that process and would be in the process that is currently being carried out by a project manager, that they submitted to the fall of 2016, and that hurry treatment was not available. It would be very manly by the members of the greater part that men are coming up to explain. I'll call for it where it's at. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson has come to the Hall of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u62	A respectable president. The reason you expose the President's meeting board is because you don't like that exactly, President's conference board. Now it's third week where you try to open your eyes. A president for his busy schedule set out here day after day. As the discussion unfolds, it accumulates, reasoning on changing the program. These are material talks that we are delivering on the program and the question about how the program should be conducted. For example, there was one very clear and strong argument today after meeting a professional committee: There is no need for us here to discuss this matter. This will be discussed by the Management Board and will provide their more careful coverage of them to the Council in the fall of 2016. Again: Why should we start discussing the matter completely in the laws and in view of one of the major issues that can be raised in the Assembly Hall?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u63	Madam President. It is quite crystal complete after a report that we have received from a meeting of the employment committee this morning that there is absolutely something to be done and what to do and what to do and what to do, and it is to give the project management a period of peace and to prepare well for its work in terms of, for example, funding to professional groups and all the work. There is a possibility that we can get a legal order out of this process the 3rd step of the frame program within a year or less. What, then, is at stake when there are no contracts or commitments to the supply of electricity to the current situation, none, and the recruitment providers have enough in front of themselves the next loss? Initiating the construction of Theistlein activation, what if there were enlargement of Burfells or Impuls activation, it's not enough for her for the next 3◯4 years? Yeah, I guess so. It's a home-made problem. [[The president calls.]] It is a domestic lie that the country is running out of electricity, and it is time for most of the professional authorities to accept it. It is those who should take a look at themselves instead of throwing in ever more bombs and bombs into this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u64	Madam President. I'd like to ask a president what it was at a meeting. This morning's employment committee, which led to president's decision to persevere with the same program that has been for two weeks at the council. What was the point of this meeting that made the president stand firm to continue this matter at the council? Here, men who were found there have just confirmed that there should be waiting, that all evidence is in favor of supporting the Minister's synopsis, which was taken up by professional evaluations and as suggested by the project director, rejecting the changes made by the employment committee. At least the process there can be reconciled. I hope the President will answer what it was at this meeting that would argue to continue this program here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u65	V.E.G. President. It's natural to make it clear when we are being criticized for discussing the President's conference board that it's the order of the president we're discussing and why this case is on the agenda. As I heard of a meeting this morning on a professional committee, it was found that one of the things that would really help, and has also been observed during a discussion at the council, including the convention. ... froma governmentman from nowhere. A job committee, would be using what's already in the pipes of energy and applying the line layers around the country. The case following the Framework Programme is a line structure, a case that was reassigned from this chamber to reform, but is back in a much greater harmony and a greater possibility of reimburseing it. The members of the government stand have suggested that by taking a frame plan out, this case will be on the agenda. There is no interest in furthering energy or electricity around the country. Don't try to hide it. You've been stalling this case for two years. You're not interested in finishing your lines. [[The president calls.]] It's all set. There's some other game in which men are in here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u66	A respectable president. I'm going to say the word. paritaprevir The Guðbjartur son of Hannesson. There must be another reason why when the fact is that Impulsion could have been approved here in December. and after nine months, the professional groups will submit their research and opinions on less than 30 advantages that will then be set up and returned to the council in the fall of 2016. A respectable president. I don't understand this expedition, and I don't understand the notices of the head of the prosecuting agency in the media lately, in which he describes the complete launch of the government position and our language, which means, in other words: I don't want to talk to you, I don't need to talk to you, and I'm not going to try to meet your views at all or anything. I ask myself, a respectable president: Whose luck it is. Jón When Gunnarsson's son speaks like that, and when he works in a way that he does here? He's not working for nature, and he's not doing any good for the energy industry either. [[The president calls.]] This'll hold everything up. This will delay the peace-telling process, and this will also slow work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u67	A respectable president. The situation at the highest level. The general president of the Generalis has created in the Assembly Hall by his decisions, and it's a masquerading situation. Everyone is considered somehow to be as guilty in this dispute. This happens when an untreated dispute is simply put into the chamber, and then the door is simply closed. Should we not talk to anyone and try to make peace? I think if you're going to try to understand these intricacies and so rigid, maybe this is done to cover over the fact that there are quite a few cases of government release waiting for you. They are only 22 committees, and now they wait to get through 2nd. [[Up front.]] Few of them are big. It's all small. 46 are still on committees, not even committees. [[The president calls.]] There's nothing to happen to the government except this case, which is totally unnecessary. At the same time, this situation exists in the community. [[The president calls.]] In that case, it may be appropriate to start some dispute here to cover that the inactivity against that situation is completely off the side of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u68	Madam President. It would be interesting to know what would be on the program if it wasn't for this unfortunate situation that we've been calling. [[Up front.]] I wonder if it would be just a intermission while the government was running out of business. We have asked many times after a transport program, and we now read about the media that the government is planning to propose a huge budget proposal, expected to be able to deliver a transport plan. Would it not be trying to fill the program with other actions? Madam President. I need to reiterate the reports I've received of a crisis. Employment Committees agree with what has been discussed in the past in the discussion, i.e. There is nothing that encourages us to resolve this matter now. It would be very normal to combine all these activation options with the overall proposal. We can do this in the fall of 2016, especially because of what I also understood had happened at a meeting. According to one reference work, there were no funding for completing the professional groups until early this year. [[The president calls.]] I guess that problem is prepared for most of the time. It is not acceptable to put the Generals in position to discuss this indiscretion at this point.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u69	A respectable president. It must agree with every word that was said just now. It is not acceptable to invite a United States of America to do this. It's a home-made problem. First of all, it has to do with our being, as indicated here, not to discuss anything. We have handled what is ready for the issues that have come out of committees. How shocking it is that when a warning has been given not to have financial laws and how to put up with them, one matter after another is to act now! The natural pass went flat, as we know it. What happens then? This morning, the financier will come to the budget and contribute 850 million in financial resources to society's infrastructure. It is well in itself that the funds are placed there, but they are not to be used in this way. It's been warned, but they don't listen to it. Why? Because it was part of the previous government investment programme for how to go into those things. What is now done and has been cut down since that government began is gradually reinstating. [[The president calls.]] Why? Because then she did. It must not be the legacy of the previous government, which this government could possibly be enforcing. The same is true in this discussion, it is being opposed to what was decided during the last term. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u70	A respectable president. Here's what it says. A senator, vice president of the United States, is saying that I present a cargo to my case in this matter. Maybe that's the way it is put, and I do, because the wrong facts are constantly being held out. I'm critical of that. There are some facts that we should consider. No deal, says why. paritaprevir Steingrimur J. Sigfússon, you're wrong. This morning, Landic activation was well established by contracts for projects in Helga, and factories for Grundartangga are under, absolutely. It's standing and it doesn't have to talk about it anymore. The results of the Environment Ministry and Project Director are consistent with the conclusions of the majority of the Committee that the legislation is entirely with us in the lower part of Turbulence, which they believe Tankia and Sharkism are in gray areas. The Commission complies fully with the legislation on activation options at the lower part of Þrjörður. There's talk of commuting and it's supposed to be solved with them. We can move 100 megawatts between parts of the country into 2500 megawatts. It'll take us five years to solve that if we get on the road now on a blast road, it'll take us 10 to 12 years if we go round, so it's not an emergency. [[The president calls.]] Why is this matter being discussed? Because it is perfectly natural, perfectly by law, and absolutely necessary to continue building in this field. [[The president calls.]] The fact that the project management will be due next year, and we will be along in the spring months of 2017 some subject for the promotion of elections is not going to solve these issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u71	A respectable president. This is where people continue to discuss this with them in agreement about the President's conference board and witness to a meeting at a professional conference this morning. But now no one's gonna mention the memory sheet from lawyers at the Environment and Resource Ministry. They met this morning's committee and made it clear that all the Majors, activations in the lower part of Þjórður, were completely clear. The committee has full permission to make a change in their proposal. There's a gangsta in a gray area. It's considered from the Department of Employment, which reads differently. Land induction also showed that there are no priming options in all of the South and Southwestern countries. [[The president calls.]] They repeat it. There are 35 megawatts in Burdla. A two - year increase in SMEs is just right.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u72	President wants to point them out. Councilmen assume that this team is about the President's conference board, not a general debate on any matter of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u73	V.E.G. President. This was a need for reproof. I come here to discuss the council program. I wondered about the situation that has come up now, when the president decided to disassociate the program of the council. How's the top? The President posing a meeting in committees? Does the nominee fail? We don't know how long we're supposed to be here, but we can't have a board in force. Should I, then, be the head of a welfare committee to assume that we will not receive the home relief program to this council? We may be getting it for a few doses through the SpV News. Is not such a bill coming? Is it possible to provide better information as to when the stable tax is to enter this council? Is there any way to know the highest issues? The government has planned to try to finish here? Could we get some information now that this uncertainty has come up with the program?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u74	Madam President. Long ago, I feel that it is an incomprehensible obsession to continue with the subject. As long as the adjustment is made to the greater part of the employment committee doesn't disappear from the world, we won't be able to make it land or coast. It's just reality. It's simple to feel it, I think, as it lies before me, and I don't realize it if it takes a few more weeks to get it through. So, what's the point of doing this when all this is all there to allow the professional and legal process to run its course, and we get a order that will indisputably be in harmony with the law, their spirit, and their methodology in over a year? [[Up front.]] Of course, it is obvious that what is to be done is what is to be done. This is in a crying contrast to all the environmental groups in the country, they are in opposition to the united tourism; this is in opposition to many other global groups in the country that have said: The law is to be carried out, and the business is to be respected. It's an incomprehensible standard, and there's something wrong, Madam President. There's something rotten in Dana's state. I have a feeling this country is running out of control. At any rate, the foreman is of little use.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u75	A respectable president. Because it's all over for the President's conference board, I have nothing to say about the President's conference board, but because it's called by prime network and whatever government this time is in power and every major part of this council will be finished, I'd like to say so, to be told, and to inform them that there are 38 basics waiting for 2 and 3. and there are ten proposals that await discussion have wondered that we should wait here for some bills to come, the ones who say there are these bills here ready for the 2nd and 3rd. That is also the case with No. 4 and 5 here on the program today, so there are primes both from the board of directors as well as from the members of the council, available to the 2nd and 3rd. and not to be discussed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u76	V.E.G. President. That talk was interesting. paritaprevir Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir, president of the Party of Independence, will not be discussed. Who's in charge of the program at the council? It's the highest. President. He'll put it all on schedule. I'll take my whole mind off with what's wrong. The head of the Independence Party is saying that we would like to have these matters discussed, that we would like to get them out, that we would like to accept all the matters we agree on, and that we would bring them in. As a result, our program has gone on. We're in trouble because we're sitting here discussing a meeting that was this morning which has not been specifically discussed elsewhere. There are already conflicting details about what happened at that meeting. Is that not further evidence that this will continue on the committee, and will be discussed instead of speculating on certain factors? We're getting information, but it conflicts with what the majority of the professionals on the job committee say, they contradict, so there are clearly two types or three interpretations at this meeting this morning. [[The president calls.]] Should we continue to discuss this rather than do it as a boy? paritaprevir Mr. Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir suggested that? Let's talk about the other stuff. That's exactly what we're doing here, and we're asking for from this speaker at a program request. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u77	A respectable president. Since November last, more than a part of the employment committee has restored ideas of bringing back to the Baroness rejuvenate in Skaftá, Hound wound activation at Atley, and Hague Water activation. Four of the continuum transfunctioners remain. Two o'clock. The members of a large part of the business committee, why. The members of Jón Gunnarsson and Páll Jóhann Pálsson, came up earlier, saying that the project administration gave them the goal of a meeting this morning thatlasta was in gray areas; totally surfing with pride that there were all three of the fortresses, which, in the opinion of the project management, were acceptable to transfer between groups. I would've expected that. This is where the senators would report that they were going to drag after him. Or is it okay to move between classes of activates in grey areas? I can see that, and everyone sees that the more part of the employment committee is trying to do this here is to see how far he can go, how many of his activations can go past the project management. Now, more of the employment committee must read my lips: none.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u78	The President reiterates it to what? Councilmen that there is no material debate over any matter of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u79	A respectable president. Frustrated opposition, however. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon. Yes, we are in crying opposition to those who do not want to do more and who have said so, and that is quite a matter of view. Hv. Councilmen of the left green say that the country has been overactivated and agree with Land Protection and the Árni Finnsson of the National Protection Agency of Iceland. We are in bitter opposition to these people because we want to continue building in energy - carrying industry. We'll never get together that way. You have to realize that the projects that are underneath are very important Icelandic society; Northwestern districts of Grundartan, Southern District in the South and the entire country. It takes three years to build an activation process after taking her to a class that is quite successful, so this will take a long time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u80	It's the largest industry in the country, isn't it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u81	Hv. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir name prevented the activations of the lower part of During the Year and the next year as originally planned by breaking the law and being sentenced to death in the Supreme Court. [[Up front.]] At the time, she replied that she had nothing to do with whether she had broken the law and was sentenced to it in the Supreme Court, she was in Polish for the protection of nature. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] I would like to have the discussion as it is about the facts. [[The president calls.]] These projects are under control. When it comes to crying territory, the Chairman of Project Management estimates thatlasta is in a gray area because of the way the law is spoken, but the Environment Ministry said it was very unclear how to read the law, lawyers there. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u82	President wants to ask why. Parliaments to respect speech time and also to reiterate their request to leave all material discussions on any matter of Congress. Now we're talking about the President's conference board.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u83	Madam President. I believe it will be a favor to the President's conference management if there's a misunderstanding. I'd like to correct two things that happened to me in the middle of nowhere. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson. For one thing, when Silicor was signed on the Gruntan team, it was reported clearly that the energy for the first half of the procedure was being accomplished. Second, I'm surprised when it comes to it. Councilmen claim that only 35 megawatts come from Burfell 2. I'm here looking at a story published in The Daily Journal, South Africa's December 30th, 2013. It reports a presentation meeting held in the United States on Borfell 2 and clearly stated to men, such as Helgi Bjarnason, that the activation can result in a maximum of 140 megawatts. There's something mixed up here. I've always thought of it as an 130 megawatt activation, and I've talked about it for a very long time. [[The president calls.]] Once I was a industrial minister, so this is how it lay down. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u84	V.E.G. President. It is a pleasure to know that the chairman of the Independence Party wants to view the issues that have been resolved by committees. We don't have much to do with the government, but we're trying to finish what comes to us. I suggest the highest. The president will review it with members of Congress to review cases that are likely to be paid over the council. Meanwhile, it can cool down and nurture more parts of the employment committee after two difficult weeks that have not been his advantage, pushing forward as we have seen at the council. I stress that it is very difficult for a senator to recognize where we are headed by the Senate. The uncertainty must be eliminated. This we owe ourselves, minimal respect. Even if the common people do not trust us, let us try to maintain a slight sense of self - worth, talk to them, and figure out the program. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u85	V.E.G. President. It was a good point that came from the procurator of the Independence Party, huh? paritaprevir Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir, about a number of cases ready for 2nd and 3rd. After being discussed in a committee. Of these, there is a big hit that has been replaced by committees. I think it will be happier to think that instead of running this thing on the agenda, we'll take the issues of some solidarity and settle them so that we will succeed as a U.S. Assembly to get anywhere between us and thus increase our respect and do it simply, if I allow myself to say so, something intelligent here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u86	Madam President. I'll let myself speak a word. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son, who earlier said that he had some facts that could pay for this discussion. I have three: First, 250 megawatts are needed to meet the energy needs of the previous stage in all the major forms of activity that are on the table. Second, if you count Borfell 2, Impulsion, Theist smoke, what is already in the system and mixed up, it's a long, long way above. That's close to 400 megawatts. Third, it is absolutely clear that within nine months, the final task management has to do with 26 benefits. That's perfectly clear. It's not because there's no room for energy for people to attack. I specifically mention this, Madam President, because I believe that in these facts there is a limit to making peace with this matter so that everyone can already have any pleasure.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u87	V.E.G. President. I just come up here to say a lot of sadness that this matter is still on the program for the council, considering what has been going on here in the last two weeks. A good man once said that a part of happiness is not to fight. Rather, he tried to avoid them and a clever retreat is a victory in himself. I think it would be a great victory for the greater part of it. Advisory of this adjustment. Then he would add his weight to the scales, making more peace and peace in the assembly. It's been absolutely amazing what's been going on here. We know exactly what the discussion is like in the community. That's why I want to encourage the highest. A president to encourage more part of the employment board to retract the adjustment proposal, for it has now been shown that the Framework Board will bring all of this back within two years and a half, even though it would be only to create peace in the council and show that we are trying to work for the country. We're not showing that now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u88	Madam President. We will continue the discussion that has been going on for a long time, too long in my opinion, and the majority of the section of the council is, unfortunately, offered. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson reports on the news that my treatment of the object is a disgrace. It's a little hard to live up to or sit up to it, or what we say, and it doesn't show that it hurts. A senator believes that there is a need for some relief in this matter, but he gives it up and encourages the conflict that he has started. I don't think it's surprising that no one should intervene in this situation, that men in the greater part are following this discussion quietly and see no reason to intervene and guide. This reminds me of a nursery school when some one officer, some one freckle, gets everybody into some kind of arduous place. Everyone follows the Führer, and he's not stopped until the principal realizes what's going on and intervenes. But where is the principal of this government? Where's the bottom line? Prime Minister? Why does he not use his influence and intervene in such situations? This morning, we did well to review the role of the chairman of her project, Stefán the son of Gíslason, and all who listened to his case should be well informed as to how the laws on the structure are working and how the process is. His case made it clear that any quick treatment is not available if we are going to maintain a set of laws. If we are not going to destroy the framework, this legislation that was in preparation for a staff of years and out in the community, both those who want to protect and those who want to go free to make good use of all activations, to listen to the manager of the project, to what he believes in this matter, and to do the work. It was also very interesting to hear him admit the mistake of not working at the methodology of the project, the methodology it operates in, and is called the HP methodology, based primarily on comparison between activation options. It would have to be minimally low to 30, but when eight benefits were taken in a hurry, it was too small to work with. The benefits could be said to be bad, worse, worst or good, better, best. But this is just not how a professional process can be carried out by a project management. Now there are the advantages set up in a waiting party, which also made it clear this morning to the chairman of a project manager that was a professional process, has already moved to phase 3. You cannot continue to talk about what has been added to a second class because of the completion of the second phase and completion of the second phase, according to the review process, certain advantages have been made to a waiting party and are now in phase 3. The task management is now fully equipped to have professionals, professionals, and sufficient funds to complete this work and intend to do so after the appointed time, resulting in September 1, 2016. They were also asked if they could accept some benefits from this process and put them in the special work of a new task management or with new experts. Naturally, the head of Project Management felt that if we wanted to respect those legislation, we would simply be passing by the legislation that we had agreed on ourselves at the General Assembly. To me, and hopefully to those who attended this meeting, it is quite clear that the work should be within the task management board, not with the changes in the majority of the workaholics. It was noted earlier that the Council was permitted as well as a minister to make a change. Yes, it was in the case of the Environment Ministry, but what did they say? That these adjustments would have to follow evidence that something new had come from the fact that these advantages were placed in a waiting group that claimed that they were now proposed to join a colony. Where is the legal support for the changes made by more part of the employment committee? It can't be found. It's not just me that doesn't find the logical support, organization doesn't find him, nor is it any more members. You cannot just pick up something you want to hear from a table and ask for support that they can remove these four benefits from a legal process and put in quick therapy through the General Assembly. It's very unprofessional, and I'm surprised that members of the greater part of the body of Congress are going to prescribe such a procedure as one of their own. I don't think it's a very careful procedure. There is also another, if humans are so concerned with getting more energy to offer, whether it is a plant, another industry, or just other advantages that are not included in a major industry, we have a tourism that thrives and thrives, and we may have become the largest currency in society, perhaps one should have taken the finish up earlier in the process. It was found that the work of the project management should be delayed beyond any indication of how the Environment Ministry should pay interest to professionals working in these trade groups. It was not until the beginning of this year that the process was clear, so that recruitment could be arranged by professionals to work in these trade groups. There's something you can look at on your own with these delays. It was also noted that it took five months to receive logical support through the Power Institute from the activation providers who requested that activation be given the treatment of a project which is only part of a legal process. Men at various fronts have drawn their feet. By making the adjustment to make the greater part of the enterprise, they are also delaying the payment of the proposal for Hagmic activation. She probably would have been in and out if it hadn't happened. What, then, does it mean that they are speeding up the use of priming options? I think we should stop. I don't approve of it, and I've declared it more than once, to continue on the road to using hydro-engineers and also the geothermalists to feed a major industry. I think there's plenty of industry in this country. More than 80% of all electricity production in the country is going into industry today. You can discern how practical it is, but warnings that have been put down and written, such as by the former national tax manager, Indriði H. Þorláksson, are sobering to consider, that there is only a very small return to the national population because so little of the currency that comes into existence at the production of emissaries comes into the economy. It is pay expenses and perhaps some secondary jobs, but the profits of owners are taken, unfortunately, through, for example, a daughter's company. Why don't we stop now because it's been found that over 80% of the tourists who come to our country are visiting us and creating a lot of currency because Iceland has its unquenchable highlands and they're looking at nature primarily? It is no longer just the sector of industry that goes into produced energy. There is now another larger industry in the country, tourism, competition with the industry. I think it's much more acceptable for the future that Iceland and I are looking for building up for tourism and all these services that can develop around our country's tourism. We cannot think of building a major industry along with the development of tourism. Such is the reality. There is also the possibility that national activation has no committed agreement to deliver electricity to all the silical creatures now talking about building. There's enough energy for the plant to build on back. The first stage of Theistaria is energy for that project, and the second stage is to be ready by 2020. Conjugation has made a deal with United Silicon on the Southnes of 1⁄4 of what that company is about to do, but for the gangs upstairs, there are no contracts available for the GDP and Torsil. It has also been shown that we have the potential to increase energy intensity through enlargement of Brancing, enlargement of the reconstituted, enlargement of the Crancer, and we have one 100 megawatts in the system. We are not at the moment, unless we are going to continue running brutal activation projects at nature's expense to deliver to projects like an aluminium in Helgavík, which takes 625 megawatts or an appeal factory that takes 350 megawatts. These were presented as part of the series of exuberances of land activation. Is that what we want? [[The president calls.]] No, thanks, not me.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u89	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. The noon news said why. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, director of the professional network, was so necessary to activate because factories had to be kept moving in Helguvík and on a suspect. The Sunnian Company Union has noted that 50% of the electricity produced by water and 70% produced by high temperature are from the South, but only 4% of the electricity is used in the Southland. I want to ask you why. A senator on a professional committee whether this requirement for the Slene community has been discussed and how will it be added to them if they are activated in the lower part of Turbine and Skull to drive factories in Hlagavik and on Bounty Arts?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u90	Madam President. I thank the senator for his point. Of the fact that more than 80% of electricity is produced in the South, only 4% return to the local job structure, it is sobering to think. I came into this in my first speech, and I am not surprised at the fact that the European Union of the South American countryside is becoming a bit nervous over this trend. We haven't discussed this specifically on a professional committee, not so I remember exactly, but, of course, it's something we have in the reviews of these parties. I think there's something we're supposed to look at so that what's going to be activated in the South should be used there at home. We watch large vegetables and look at other job structures, of course we should use that electricity at home in the district.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u91	Mr. President. I want to quote again. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson on the noon news. There he said that the project management had at a meeting of the employment committee said that Stockholm was in a gray area and thus suggested that the Holta and Uryr deductors were not then in gray areas. Now, there was information on the three activations in a narrative process that raised questions, which is why they were held in a waiting category, all three of them. I want to ask you why. A senator and ask her to explain to me, what's the difference? There are three fortresses with questions asked by the project manager, no opportunity or time to answer. Why is there anything else about The Devil than the other two fortresses? All three of the continuum transfunctioners are in the waiting category. There are advantages that need to be examined further.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u92	Mr. President. I believe that the same applies to The Devil's century as to the other advantages of Holta and Urar deactivation in the lower part of Þrjörg. These advantages have not been completely professionally discussed. They are still waiting. That's just the way it is. Although the lower part of Djaves has been studied extensively, we know that it had a legal process, a reporting process, and the result of further research on the salmon strain. The project management, as I understand it, did not result in a gang of novelty at the time of emergency treatment because it was not ready. What the head of a project manager says is that material coverage about these advantages is not over, that is not more complex than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u93	A respectable president. Because of what? A senator sitting on a professional committee is trying to figure out this position and what the meeting said this morning. Am I correct in understanding that Land activation was not until 2018, which was carried out on activation of No. 2 i.e. after Impulse reactivation? Second, I would like to ask if this morning, as stated on the cover of the frame plan, that after nine months from now, the trade groups will make a order of less than 30 costs, 26 or 27, and then they will be processed, organized, and returned to the minister for the 2016 fall. If I'm right about this, I'd like to pray. A senator to tell me whether it has been presented by the members of the Commission, why they are going this way now, which I see only a delay in performance and peace description. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u94	Mr. President. Yes, it was very clear to the representatives of the National Revocation that if this proposal were to be done, Ignorance would begin, and Holta reactivation would not be performed until two to three years, as I understood, 2018. It takes a more understanding senator than I am to answer why people are so anxious to go past a frame plan when they know it's not going to this option, although this would be approved for three years. They want to risk charges, and they want this to go on, is that better? I can't figure out what else they're going to do, but they're just going to do it because they think they have more to do with it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u95	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this. You see, it is. You wonder what you're going to do. It seems to be all about it, that's part of this package, wanting to wind off something that happened during the last term. In his quest to fight the government that left power two years ago, people are getting in the way of themselves. That's exactly what's going on in this case. I don't think people can quite predict how this case can end and will see that it would have been better to keep it in the process and keep it on the timetable set out. Like what? A senator mentioned, and it might be interesting to hear a little more from her, is to rip this out of a process that has been accepted; at least, men have agreed to a contract. They're breaking that work song, putting it into the conflict process we've seen here in the last two weeks. [[The president calls.]] It can end very badly and again where we started, i.e. with endless charges and debates over outstanding initiatives.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u96	Mr. President. Wasn't it Don Kíkóti who fought windmills? Jón Gunnarsson has come to remind us of Don Kíkóta, who is in the eternal struggle with windmills and can't go on. It's just that way. Speaking of windmills - isn't it one of the things we should look at, and land induction has been looking for, building windmills on the sea? Wouldn't it be just the right thing to do? paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson and his other followers would look to that fact? It was also good to know that the representatives of the Country Implementation Act are not asking that less baptism be performed on this matter. She wants to respect the legal career of a frame plan. They know what it takes in the delay of performance and of the whole process if a person is to be less baptized in this process as much as possible. Senators are going to do it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u97	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. That's interesting to us who don't have a seat. A professional committee is trying to look into the committee only by having a word - out with her backup. What I would like to ask is what happened here. If we retract this proposal, i.e. If the management part does and goes into the legal process, I understand the highest. that the Environment Minister has required, or requested, that the project management complete stage 3 of September 1, 2016. What if you did, and you have no reason to think otherwise if you have finally provided money for this, and there would be a bill in the first September of the month, is there any reason besides that if you stick to the process, you will receive Congress and proper treatment? I think it matters because when people are talking about it, it'd be a lot to work if we could get out of the way of fighting with this party.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u98	Mr. President. Of course, a project management would like to have peace of mind to care for this large and urgent project, which is now being carried out by full - time professional groups. She feels that she does not have a long time to make 26 choices, to September 1, 2016, and intends to make good use of that time. She wants to be able to offer clear suggestions after that time. I expect the council to respect the conclusion that comes from that process. That's what we're calling on, that we go on a legal process, and that's how we accept the suggestions they make and take note of the professional work that will be done until then.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u99	V.E.G. President. Now, in the real world, we could have done the whale explosion here last December, which would have led to a normal course, working according to project management and the process of being delighted to hear in mind. Nationalization thinks we should follow up, i.e. Applying the Treaty on Framework and Observation in Project Management. This was shown in a talk by a young man. A senator delays this matter a little self-created. There was a discussion that made at the time that even if funds were not available, authorities would not have been allowed to set aside funds for the project management or the trade groups. Is that knot solved? Is it in full swing? If so, is there any reason to believe that humans cannot live up to the strategy that has been proposed to complete it by September 1? Then, at the start of the next year, the professional groups would arrive at the very beginning of the next year, and then this would be a normal process of sorting. We're talking there about 26 priming options. Would it not be easier to wait with this stroke here for a month or two to speed up the process with the whole large package? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u100	Mr. President. Yes, it was clear that now the professional groups have enough money to do their job. As mentioned in my talk earlier, it was not until February 15 of this year that it was quite clear how payment would be made to the professionals who work in those groups, but it is now available and that is good. They deliver next spring, then we have a legal narrative, and this will be the minister of September 1, 2016. There was also the fact that even if a special amount of money was put into this now, it would not change the fact that it will only take that time. You have to take a deep breath and let the professionals do their job. You can't buy in front of the line, huh? Senators of the greater part of the employment board, you can't do that in this case if we are going to be professional in this case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u101	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I agree with that. A senator that cannot be bought in advance. I'd like to ask her if she would agree with the interpretation of the law, which was made by the Environment and Resource Ministry this morning, that these three activations in the lower part of Turbulence would be clearly so that we had every right to transfer them to groups and that the council had the right to bring priming options between classes. So that's the second option, Scorfladra, what's the name of it? A senator of that - professional groups in previous history had installed them into a colony but are now asking for data on the broad and protective areas of the Lakesland, where these words are not legal; there is no improvement in asking for these data. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u102	Mr. President. The representatives of the Environment and Resource Ministry this morning found that the legislation is not clear enough on the subject of professional coverage. It was found that these benefits in lower parts of the Red Sea, which we debated here, were discussed in the secondary part of Project II, but the process ended according to a legal process, to enter a waiting class. That position is moving to phase 3 where it is now. And the material coverage and research for the lower part of the Tube and the salmon strain there has not been completed. Furthermore, the representatives of the Environment Ministry noted that if the Ministers or members of Congress were to submit to a change in form of a judicial hearing that had been established here, legal support would have needed, how different it would have been since the benefits of a waiting party. [[The president calls.]] There is no legal support available.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u103	A respectable president. It was very clear, it doesn't mean why. A senator trying to make it clear that, at the Environment and Resource Ministry this morning, they believe that there is a clear improvement in the understanding that the council can bring this activation into the lower part of Þjórður wounds between classes, just as the minister before presenting the matter to the council. Let's make it clear. Hv. A senator speaks of tourists, 80% of tourists coming to see nature. What accounts for Grindavík's being one of the largest tourist resorts today? Counts 'em out. A senator said that Grindavik was the largest tourist resort today if it had not been induced in the Blacks by the reverends of the local community. [[The president calls.]] Is that not a sign that the activations can be used in a number of ways to attract tourists? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u104	Mr. President. Salvation workers on the Southnes cannot be transferred to the inducers we are considering here, to take a legal process. We cannot overstep it and say that this is the best case because it increases tourism in Southnes. We're not dealing with the South's steam mains. We are dealing with activation options that have not been treated professionally. You're wrong. A senator that representatives of the Environment Ministry did not say that a reason would require a change; whatever material information was presented as justice for these changes. I can stand here and say it with a clean conscience as often as I can. A senator wants to hear it. In addition to the Environment Ministry agents, however, evidence needs a change, it has not been made. [[Up front.]] And regarding The Devil, a material discussion about it has not been over.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u105	Mr. President. According to the nature of the case, here the issue and legal matters have shifted considerably. It is a question: Is there a question about this simple adjustment in the majority of the segment's proposals over the head or legal? Ingenuably, it is in all respects and clearly violates the spirit and ideologies of the work plans. It will never be contradicted, as with the wars it has created over a process that was designed to try to make greater and more comfortable decisions on this important matter. What are some of the things that our natural forces can become peacemakers, use of energy, what better research is needed, and what will we decide not to be activated? This is part of a very large prince's plaguing situation for this nation. How do we associate with our country? What can we today do in this regard, and what can we not do? What are our responsibilities to the future, to the land, to our children, to future generations? Well, then I'd like to think about the big position. In Iceland, a lot of activity has now been activated. Icelanders are a global quantity of electricity production per person. We have three members and several more large or medium-sized enterprises, so energy consumption in Iceland has become higher than in any other part of the world. Today, we produce 18 terava hours of electricity a year, 18 of you. gigavas. We've come a long way. Some years ago, when I learned geology at the university, I was able to use old thumbs when it was thought that Iceland could probably be activated in falling lakes and on aquifers 45 to50 terawatts. Do they know what was being subsided at that time? There wasn't much. This was a gross calculation of how falling waters and geologic temperatures could contribute to the release of Gold Falls and Geysi. So now we are in 18 out of 45 of this old standard, but the times have changed and the things have developed. Now, let's say that the decision has been made not to touch the glacier on the mountains, which is the largest earth's water that still falls into the sea without interference from activation or communication. Let's assume that there will never be a White River in the city, nor in the White River in the South, at least Not that Gold Falls is disturbed, is it not? Well, let's hope the Shiver River won't be activated, at least. so that Ald Island Falls and Godofos will never be moved. In what way did Jehovah forgive the Israelites? Let us hope that by the time of the test, wildnes activation will at least never be performed, a small activation by Iron, which would be filled in 25-◯40 years. It's a very modest place to defend. I could go on, I don't think they'll ever be touched by the biggest salmon fishing year in Iceland and even more than they're looking for. There will be no more of Salmon, there will be no salmon fishing on the northeast corner, in Parrot Ranch, and in theft of weapons. It would be a civil war in the country if it was to be done so that the deduction from the rest of the inactive water is quite large when we take these great years out of the equation, Jackást on the Mountains, the White rivers, etc. Shall we turn to the heat? Good point is this theoretically calculated force, which has been reevaluated considerably, including because some areas have not been able to deliver what they thought, even if they are ready for effective use. Likely, the old, rough calculations of the force from the earth were always overrated. There, let's assume that there will never be a crash in the Torfajokus, or a crevice - or an invitation? Does anyone want it in here? Let us say that there will never be a way to Whoville, that it will never be made to the Pass of Hope, not to the mountains of Burns, and not to Goats. That's how I could keep talking. What, then, is the result? It is that there is much less that there is likely to be any peace in this country to activate and interfere. Ergo, the decisions we make on what will be new in the future are extremely important and tricky. It is nothing more than a primitive freckle to plan to go forward, as most of the employment committee is now doing. That's irresponsible to future generations, disrespect to Iceland's nature, and it's not acceptable that we're gone any further in 2015. It is not acceptable if we put it in this context. Very few people are trying to convince us that there has been nothing changed in Iceland for 30 to40 years, that the attitude is still as primitive as going to the land in the interest of foreign capital interests. I won't take it in silence. There'll be little blood left in me before I give up fighting for such a march. We have an obligation to be careful. We have no right to act as if we were alone in the present generation of our country for the past 10 to 20 years, that is, no future, no responsibility, never discussed the phenomenon of sustainable development and that in the past. Are we going to keep this running and extract much of what is theoretically possible to activate and leave nothing for the future generation? Is it man's will to act like that? Here's a fiction about some terrible urge that turns out to be nothing. Even if a project management takes time to complete its work and do its work after 15◯18 months, nothing will cause any problems or harm. It's a decent process. Not all of us will be happy with the exact results, but then we won't have to argue about the rules of play, about methodology. That's what we've agreed on. Remember, then, that whatever the outcome may be, we need to live with it, and it is important to have good conviction that the decision was taken first. Or do they want to tear up any more wounds? Do men want new Meriadian War? What is involved? What is too much for us to be completely upset, to keep the council from getting anywhere? Why? Because of the primitive freckles of a few humans. That's all there is to it. No one else is asking for this. Nationalization is not asking for it, no, it is quite well pleased that it will become the professional process. It's a dead end. It doesn't have anything to do with her. She has a lot to do with her next loss. This anxiety has to stop, and I beg men to think their way instead of splashing salt into their wounds. This is a difficult situation for us, and it is a very difficult time for the nation's consciousness regarding the environment and the nature of the land, such as the debate over the Slálgle, to come home to us. Don't belittle the idealists who love their country and don't want to see things like that. It is ironic to pretend that there is no such thing when the great princes, hm. The members of Jón Gunnarsson and Páll Jóhann Pálsson come to the platform. You see, it is not that some man of God has the exclusive right to go on like this. Fortunately, many people both on the side of the council and, of course, in the community who want to be the voice and shield of Mother Nature and who will not tolerate such behavior. In the United States, there is a wide variety of national economic times in terms of the lack of energy - consuming industry in any way comparable to today's national interest that some may think it was or would be 30 to 40 years ago when men sometimes spoke as if the only thing that could add to the fish were embezzlement. Now we know better. Now we see that our opportunities for growth and opportunities are elsewhere. It is not in order to continue walking on the nature of the land in order to bring electricity down into foreign circles. The future lies in us, in our land, and in our knowledge. Our self - respect is bound to the fact that as a generation we present ourselves decently in these respects. We don't need any more Meriad chicken issues. For now, there was more than enough. Let us be careful, practice professional practice, try to make up for the guidelines that make it easier for us to live with the results, whatever they become, and whether they are pleasing to each other. To continue in this course is absolutely imprudent. The adjustment of the largest part of the employment committee must be done out of heaven and be observed no more. Of course, it would be wise for the government to apologize for these cases, to retract the case, and to wait until the whole set-up program is made up of a total order of 25 in a period of about one and a half years. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u106	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for a very inspired speech, but as everyone knows, the senator has done a great deal of environmental protection during his campaign, we all know and know it. Today, naturalists exist in every category, everywhere in the community. There are people in all categories who love nature, of course, that cannot be claimed otherwise. But that is exactly why this process in the frame plan was initiated and that was the result of classes, including the Independence Party. I had high hopes that we would succeed in bringing up this matter for political debates and that we will organize these initiatives that are present, as the task management at the time suggested. Then, when the last government made its move for some benefits, after the government groups had brought their people into the process of classing the order from the mission government, peace was torn apart. It was shown during the last term. We had many conference talks here in that chair. Hv. A senator claimed that there would be people here, more than a part of the employment committee, who wanted to activate everything and do it all in our time, leaving nothing for future generations. Of course, this is not to say that while priming factors enter a category, this does not mean that tomorrow will be activated. There is a long process remaining, at least in regard to many activation options, before a decision is made to allow the activation to occur. Let's not be trying to dust people's eyes here in this room.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u107	Mr. President. It differs in how much follow-up is needed if certain activation options are added to a novelty group in existing cases, certainly out - of - date, environmental evaluations, and high preparation so that relatively quick implementation could take place. It's also quite the same to say that people's eyes are cutting dust at people's eyes to move the lower part of a dream into a novelty, there's a lot to hold on to things where there's environmental food, etc. I'm not buying it raw. Mr. President. I'm sure it's true that there are naturalists in every category in Iceland, I don't doubt it. But they seem to have little effect in some categories. Where do you hear now from the Skeptics of the Future and Independence Party? Why is there no rebellion there in this march? Of course, a man has wondered about poor forwards, what's become of him, the category of the late Hermannsson's son, blessed is his memory, was he trying to make a green party? And the group that Eysteinn Jónsson brought forth and established nature protection laws, and established the Institute of Nature, etc., became at each other's foreman and ponytail in the rear of the most violent major industrial forces in the Independence Party. That's a lot to do with it, or that's what it's all about. I think what we have to face in the frame plan - it's absolutely true that everyone expected that this methodology would make it easier for us to deal with these matters and to control them, not necessarily out of it, to get the results that everyone would accept. Of course, no one would be such a child, I think, to give it to him. It is quite different, however, to accept and live with the conclusions, whether they are content or not, if they know that there was good work and nothing saved, and the time for things to go on as reasonable as possible was given. I've also been very supportive because time works with nature. [[The president calls.]] There's no question about that. Perhaps that's why the overforcing and greed sometimes exposes humans, because they know that they are trying to drive things through that probably wouldn't be on the program after 5◯10 years, if evolution continues to do the same. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u108	V.E.G. President. The reason why I have a group of naturalists and a forwarding party, I suppose, if I'm going to try to read the cards, don't jump into the government opposition case, is simply because the hearing is not convincing. Everyone knows that the council can offer suggestions. Then they come to a vote. That's the rules of the game, since you're not allowed to follow the rules. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, because he was formerly president of the left green, who makes a lot of natural protection: does that mean only Iceland? I've often been thinking that if we were to think about nature protection, we with all our possibilities of being here and offering green energy, are we not obliged to do more? What does it look like? A senator owns it? Isn't it our duty if we not only think of Iceland as an island that has nothing to do with anyone else but about Iceland and our chances in the big world? Are we not obliged to contribute to producing more green energy?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u109	Mr. President. I think Iceland's richest duty is on the land itself. I think we have more than anything else to do with Iceland, this country we've been assigned to take care of. It is our richest duty, and we do so for the sake of the whole world that Iceland will not be corrupted and therefore destroyed. With regard to the childish lawsuit, a respectable president, I have to allow myself to say that Iceland can contribute a great deal to the world's environmental and pollution problems by setting things right here, what do you think that would delay our addition to 10, 20, 30 terawatts? Total electricity production in Iceland was once estimated to be similar to Hamburg's state, one city in Germany. It doesn't change the world's energy supply, so obviously our obligations to the country itself and nature here no. 1st Yes, of course, it's fine that electricity is produced by power or earth heat rather than a coal-gain power plant the size of Chrum chicken surgery over a week in China.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u110	A respectable president. Thank you. One of the most powerful discourses for a senator, just as is done to him alone. He goes here very much, talking about the most basic freckles in a few humans. Where do you hear the CDC? I want to point 'em. A senator would say that they are not more aggressive. Councilmen but their proposal for the benefits that fully appointed professional groups in project management for frame 2, the only groups of professionals who were fully appointed and given sufficient time, not to any preliminary tasks, but to have full time to review the benefits, they recommended these to all in the colony. That's all there is to it. I want to ask you why. What, then, are they doing? After all the work that these professional groups, full - grown professional groups, the only professional groups who have been assigned to do, what can be called what has been done to them? On the contrary to professional assessments, six activations were taken from a colony class and entered a waiting party. Part of their mission was to look at this in a national setting where water power and steam sources were used together, not just the geothermalists, but to activate it in a mixture to back them up.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u111	Mr. President. Hv. A senator can call it "great. " I'm certainly depressed when I discuss these matters, they stand close to my heart, and that's exactly what I do with my mind, no matter what it's quirking on someone's back. Councilmen. With regard to Table 2 results, this is simply the way it is, as has been tried to explain. The members of Congress, following the classification, follow the process of reviews that the law expects, and the results of their conversions are that six benefits are left to the doubt, being suspended. This is not a permanent suggestion or category, no damage done. There are some benefits that will be examined more carefully, and later, they will be revealed in the direction they go. Do they all or some others still go into a novelty party? Or do they fall apart in other ways? Now may be the time. A senator is not very familiar with the precautions and the thought that nature enjoys the doubt, i.e. the interpretation of the uncertainty of her advantage. They include what this is done in mind, the principles of the environmental rights. Today, however, I feel like people suddenly pretend that it's no big deal just to push it all aside. Certainly, such fundamental principles have not yet been established into the constitution. There is a full need, but it does not justify human behavior in the year 2015 as if nothing has happened, that has not been affected by environmental events, and that has never been heard of Rio at least or anything. And though they put it all aside, they should have known their own people in this way unless there is any gap between reality and perception, in the Icelandic nation. The steady growth of fish around the spine has resulted in a careful approach to the earth when nature is involved. This must have happened to all members of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u112	A respectable president. Nationalization wants laws and regulations to be followed, and land induction wants a vision for the future. Nationalization is in our situation today that it has no opportunity to offer in the south and southwest. Hv. A senator here mentioned that the future lies in us. I completely agree with that. The future lies in us and we use the land and its resources. Let us see that the water that runs to the sea today, we don't work it after a year, let alone in ten years. Activation of future generations activates water that flows, not today. I'm asking why. Senator: Shouldn't we continue using all that resources? If we are going to maintain the national battle we want and demand, will we not benefit from using the resources available, both to sea and to rural areas?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u113	Mr. President. I think we Icelanders are especially riding on using the most valuable resource, and that's us ourselves, that's our heads. He's probably the most useful resource in Iceland, considering how things have worked out for us, we should have tried to use our limited intelligence to think more sometimes, Icelanders, and not go blind. Should the collapse have come to mind that there are times when it is better to slow down and do something intelligent than to go on in complete blindness. Nationalization wants a vision, yeah, I get it. However, land induction will work out the results. She has said the same thing. As a result, our land - repair work has shown us in its books, setting up finer and better living. Although it does not build any more activation, it pays off the debt and can pay the nation tens of millions of dollars a year to profit from its resources. The future is not necessarily in this, just going on. You see, it's not like that. And what is likely to be most likely to do? A continuing cry of war over these matters, as is now being set in or arranged for 25 to30 benefits after a year and a half, giving land induction a vision that they know what they are going to do and hopefully in relative peace with land and nation? [[The president calls.]] I'm saying that this is a mess, a huge mess for parties like Landing and for the whole sector as a dog. Senators stand here for what? þingmaður Páll Jóhann og Jón Gunnson, to be now called in common again. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u114	A respectable president. I don't necessarily agree with what. A member of the body of elders on outstanding initiatives, though he may agree on some of them. But what I'm up to in this discussion is saving a frame plan, is that there will be some future process that allows us to deal with these matters so that there is at least some reasonable agreement about the process. Of course, we will never agree on individual activations, that is normal, we have different values, we have a different view of what is beautiful. I find Uryrfyrofos very beautiful, and I don't want to activate it because of it, but others think something else. In any case, the most important thing I am about this discussion is all this suspicion that has been present, not just during this term but during the last term. Although I understand the paint transfer from the last term, that there were people waiting for a precautionary hearing, etc., something that I can wholeheartedly agree with, there's a question about how we'll be happy when we're done. This adjustment from what we've been through. The job board is particularly amazing, considering that initially there was a Hag-water activation with no coverage of the fact that I know; unless it should be held in a waiting category and nothing has come from a project that indicates something else, so the motion is odd. You get the feeling that she was put up to draw her back so that a professional health committee could then say later that she was so foolish and listened so much to the smaller parts. The lower part of cohesive wounds and centenarian activation remain completely unforesee what will be the result of having some way of making peace. I'm looking for discussions on what adjustments could possibly be made that could help us get back on track that there could be a way to make peace with the process in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u115	Mr. President. That's a very good question. The Ramma plan and the methodology there and the law around it is my opinion - although it may, of course, consider specific aspects of law's clarity - the correct method of comparing and evaluating these factors, comparing the use of a verse with all of that. What I think is missing into this situation is political policy and decision-making on how we're going to access this energy resource of ours. To illustrate: Is this how we want to act as a generation today that we pick up the priming options in the order they are most practical and always leave them for someone else and later, less favorable and less practical? Until now, that's what's happening. It lies behind the greed of the lower part of the Red Sea. But is it reasonable if after 20 years for public markets in Iceland to be activated? There are no practical benefits. Then they are forced to go out in expensive ways. Why not mix it? To land induction, which is now the most important factor: If you receive one highly efficient water activation option or heat the next activation will be from the other end because we are going to associate with this resource with responsibility. Only policy would change the entire landscape. And I'm wondering what's going on with Landing: No, now you're not allowed to go on to the second most advanced power of water after Borrowding. You can grow Burfells. You can go to the Critics from the north after the carburettor. You can go to a few small runrs in Lins comas. True, they are not as efficient on a production of unity, as perhaps Urcratics. We wonder if at some point we will have to make use of these assets, and then we will take them in a row that is so mixed, as it were, of the earth's heat. For example, this would change the criteria we're dealing with regarding these things.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u116	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a good answer and interesting. I look forward to discussing this at the council later, no matter what happens to this bloody matter. I especially wanted to give in to it. A candidate with regard to one of the procedures used during the last terms, this is the process of reporting, which is in the preliminary law on a frame plan, used by the then highest standard. Minister. See what? A senator realizes that somehow the process can be better developed so that it can be predictable, so that at the time of that process, it will not become the controversy that arose? I'd especially like to ask you how you're doing. A senator would note that environmental assessment would be extended along such a process so that it would not escape at the same time, as an example. This is one of the things I've been wondering about when I've been looking at all these data. I don't have time for the second question and I'm gonna let this one work for now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u117	Mr. President. Of course, it is important how environmental food is prepared, such as that it cannot grow old. The evaluation must then be repeated within the specified time period, etc. What's going to happen to the planning and permit forces in this context? All of this hangs together to a degree. They need to look over the whole area and the way things are happening there. Of course, when you begin to think only about the persistent future questions that are very relevant to this discussion, the answers point rather in the direction of not being anxious. What will be the result of harnessing the wind? It is now clear that Iceland's inhabitants have a unique position to put up a substantial amount of wind and to play with the hydropower workers using the mediums. We can clear them out while they're on fire and then drive the windmills back. What about the cable? What about transport energy exchange? If, all of a sudden, there would be a revolution after 10 years, and we would see to it that we could enter an environmentally renewable source of energy with all our transport, traffic on land and ships? So, are we going to say, "Oh, no, unfortunately, we've just tied up all the energy into two studios?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u118	The President has received the following program proposals and the following letters: We signed it, in accordance with 1 mgr. 77st. Conventional song, for the next meeting to be as follows: 1st The job of the Senate. 2. The situation in the labour market, the oral report of the prime minister. 3. Electrical law, administration bill, 305. 1005. It's called "System" on deck. 1091 and 1226, respectively. 1092 and 1227, 3rd. 4. Government policy on adjusting electrical lines, administration proposals, 321 cases, shelling. 392 committees on deck. 973 and 986, leading committees on deck. 1228, continuation of the second. We would like this proposal to be presented for release in accordance with the above terms of engagement. Under this letter, Jón Þór Ólafsson, Katrín Júlíusdóttir, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir and Björt Ólafsdóttir. This proposal will be presented at the beginning of a meeting tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u119	A respectable president. I would like to make comments on the program for the meeting today, which has been the same in the third week. If this isn't spending days on crap, I don't know what it looks like. There is a clear delay between government and government. It really is more important than tears. I have the experience of having been in the government of my own time in history, and then at least some communication was going on between government and government position all the time, always, even when we were in our most difficult work. The situation is now that there is no conversation between government and government. There's a complete lack of relationship. If it doesn't reflect some kind of gap between reality and perception, I don't know what it looks like. A nurse's strike begins at midnight. [[The president calls.]] There are protests coming up here, and the situation in the community is more serious than for years. [[The president calls.]] In the meantime, what happens? There is no need to speak to the government when this situation is established. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u120	Mr. President. I'm celebrating the proposed program. The members of the administrative body, where the workforce is repeatedly proposed, will be discussed, and there is no need. That's what burns on the public in the country. Meanwhile, the council is busy discussing a proposal that, as noted many times, conflicts with the good practices that we at the Council have agreed to adopt. I have referred to the approval of the last term, adopted by 63 votes against no principle that we senators intend to improve the politicians, including the U.S. by listening more according to professional opinion. In the unfortunate situation mentioned here, reviews are repeatedly encouraged to complete this process, to breathe in the abdomen until the fall of 2016, and to wait for project management to complete its task. It has been observed that the project management was not funded to raise the professional groups until early this year, so the problem is at home. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President, we've got to start doing this work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u121	A respectable president. Just then, I had to get out of the hall to have a word - and - word relationship. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson for the suggestion here on the Waver Radio Station. I quoted a word. Part of the work committee's major body said they had both accepted it, he and the other. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson, said that a task force said thatlasta was in a gray area. Therefore, it would be normal for you to do so. Councilmen to withdraw at least the suggestion and withdraw even more than they have already done. That's what they say. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson says it's just something the project management says. However, these whales hesitate. Congress does not brag because the task management says it's okay with what they're doing in the lower part of Thunder. Then, suddenly, there is much to it. They choose exactly what is right in this case and choose to back off and do what they think of it. [[The president calls.]] It's naturally perfectly unacceptable, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u122	Mr. President. I welcome the program proposal that was introduced here earlier. It will be submitted to the council tomorrow. Again and again, I repeat that I feel that it is impossible for me to keep up with this matter. It was made clear by the procurator of the Independence Party that a number of cases wait to be paid off. The day's office is now with the president, and most of the section is in hand to guide them into the council. This is not going anywhere. It's in the hands of a project manager, and it's due in a year and a half. We are to face serious issues, such as the fact that two thousand nurses are going into a strike at midnight and a serious situation will remain in the local medical institutions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u123	A respectable president. I would like to see a president that he would try to add his weight to the balance of communication in these circumstances. If the Senate president doesn't do that, no one is in the position to do so. It is obvious that we live in Iceland's government that the government's president has no intention of taking the initiative to communicate here. So I ask a respectable president, in the interest of good work and the entire council, to take part in meeting people and then the people who have the authority to make decisions and come to their conclusions, because the knot we're in here is a pain in Iceland at all times. But if it is ever serious, it is at a time when we are now facing up to the issue of work and strife throughout society. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u124	A respectable president. I'm glad that this program proposal has come back and will, of course, vote with her tomorrow, like any person here who wants to discuss the issues that are urgent in the community, which, of course, are the chicken business and the secondary problems. We've got a meeting ahead of us. The employment committee this morning has no reason to make this suggestion now, there is no hurry. There is a hurry, however, to talk about the quarrels and the secondary problems. The secondary problems have already begun, and they will only be worse, and we need to discuss them. I felt in the unsubstantiated queries to the highest level. This morning's prime minister as if he did not realize that there is a secondary problem in the struggle between the most important industry in Iceland, the tourist industry. We have to deal with it, and it becomes more and more important.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u125	A respectable president. I'd like to put things in context a little. As a private senator, one puts forth a lot of money and has lots of issues in his field of interest. I would like us to discuss, for example, the subject of a future policy in currency, which we in the Bright Future have submitted to a conquistador proposal repeatedly. Usually, our lot is that these matters are not discussed. There are dozens of cases from members of Congress that are awaiting discussion, simply 1. Um, they're not even mentioned, they're usually members of Congress. Now it's a matter of the highest order. Ministers who probably have the majority of support here and are not controversial, although many are opposed to the activation of whale activation, I think that it is a case that has gone through its processes and would be taken care of and expected to be approved. However, two members of the council, because they want to put more power into action, are receiving the exclusive attention of the council today in the third week. [[The president calls.]] Because of the lot of the rest of us, as far as our private senators are concerned, this is by no means fair.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u126	Mr. President. I also welcome the programs that have provided the smaller part, and I raise the hope that the more important part will see, that land and nation will be more successful if they are to become part of the program, as well as many other matters that we could agree to. Of course, to honor the process that is in the spirit of the laws presented in the framework is the reason that we object to the suggestion under discussion. There is something that we in our memory feel we should be on guard, and of course we believe that the greater part should do the same. But it seems easy to choose sentences to support the decision - making process, as the majority seem to intend. Today, large people on the East Coast and because they have a bad attitude. According to the South American Council, about 75% of all hospitals are now shut down on Selephossi and Western islands. [[The president calls.]] Is it something that the council members of the South District, because I see that one of them has knocked here, that perhaps we need to do more talking about how to solve it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u127	Mr. President. I'd like to hope that this program proposal would be unnecessary, i.e. that the president sees and sets up a different schedule tomorrow. But if that is not the case, then we will have no choice but to continue to call attention to how ridiculous this is. And, of course, it is a serious piece of information that appears from the beginning. paritaprevir Savvardótti Svavarsdóttir, chairman of Group VG, that there are no conversations, there is no effort shown. It's just why. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, who carries the reconciliation search here with the magnificent blunder we've seen in the press and in the chair today. The Middle East is filling with people, the prospective nation, the prime minister, who is mistaken for all of this, misunderstood the brilliantness of prime minister, but pays votes with his feet and meets thousands of people in the east. Don't need the government and the more part of it to start thinking or you're ready to follow it. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson and Páll Jóhann Pálsson off the cliff like sneakers? [[The president calls.]] Is the board just one sleek flock, you know? It is not the prime minister who points the way in a good direction. Don't want to start thinking, boy. Senators of the Board of Staff, where are you going?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u128	A respectable president. We have proposed this program because today large groups within the BHM are on strike for 48 days. At midnight, nurses go to strike, which means operating rooms will be closed and patients will be sent home. This government and the administrative part of the forwarding party and the Independence Party are not interested in this. These matters are not planned. But the highest. The prime minister is available to talk about these matters and to send flowers to these people over and over from the media. A respectable president. He also comes into this chair, and speaks as if this matter had nothing to do with the government, that first there must be a people in the general labour market to resolve their cases. But the government and the state are relevant to those who have been working in a strike for 48 days, and the state is an appropriate nurse. [[The president calls.]] Are we really going to go on like this? A respectable president. It's totally disoriented.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u129	V.E.G. President. First, I want to celebrate the program proposal presented here, but I also want to agree with it. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, hoping that it would be unnecessary to vote on her tomorrow, for the highest. The President will have changed the program. All it takes is to look out the window and the protest cards that the crowd here, outside the East Field house, has to do with seeing that the people want the votes to be discussed. That's the big demand that's up there. We here must listen for what the nation is trying to tell us outside here. V.E.G. President. If there's not a clear message that this isn't going to have to change the program, I don't know what. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u130	Mr. President. The reality is that the government's surrender has been carried out. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son. We must face the fact that there has become a government change in the country. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson has the scepter of power, that's just the way it is. In the meantime, the whole society is dwindling. The Middle East is being filled with people who protest the sovereignty of the government and its priorities in the subjects that burn on the nation. It's said that government officials don't have the right to negotiate. Government officials speak that there will be no agreement with government employees until the public agreement is established. It is no wonder that in such circumstances, the blood stirred up in the nation when the government seems to be completely out of touch with its people.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u131	A respectable president. We're asking if the board is one of the victims. Although there is good reason to ask, there is something against it, i.e. so that no member of the 38 members of the Agency for the Agency and the Independence Party all day has had a chance to come up here and try to clear up most of the sector's resources. It seems that all the majority of the management team have come to realize what kind of assassins they are and do not want any part of this anymore. We now wait only for the president of the council to take action and try to set up more important issues, the matters the people in the East are calling, and the nurses who are going to strike tomorrow and so forth.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u132	A respectable president. Based on the state of Congress, held by members of Congress, the head of the committee, which has been taken care of and waited for to get here, it would be most natural for the management section to consult the Government Radio and get an old graphics sign, so called in a professional case, which includes the rest of the cycle, and to include it on the broadcast from council meetings, rather than spending time talking about a proposal that will not go anywhere. Of course, that's what's being done by delivering this case because there's no other reasonable explanation for setting up this matter, but that people are buying the time to win the government case and then bringing it in here when they're ready. So the part on the program here should really not be called President's conference manager, but excuse me for taking a break.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u133	The president also wants to say that there was a certain theme on a radio when a recess was needed, perhaps it does.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u134	Mr. President. I don't think it could be much more embarrassing if a respectable president went to play here, and I'm going to apologize for the recession form from State Radio, because that's early light. Councilmen have noted that this is a suggestion that has repeatedly been suggested to resist any non - proselytism that is unprovable. There is no need to rush with this suggestion. While watching the health of the country's economy, we stop because the greater part of the Council wants to not discuss the situation at the labour market. The greater part of the Council is of no interest. They'd rather keep an eye on the top. One prime minister who expresses himself on the work market in several media events, such as last weekend, and then reviews it by showing up on Our Kingdom News last night and saying that all that was left of him in the other media is really a misunderstanding, like most of the above. Prime Minister. I think the highest. The prime minister should rejoice in having an opportunity to speak directly to a nation and a body of Congress about the workforce and to make sure that there will be no misunderstandings in what he has to say to the council and to the nation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u135	A respectable president. There's a mess here, and people are asking me what's going on at the council, and I can't really answer that. It's hard to explain. Then, at times, we are comparing ourselves with other countries and may not come out well if we consider the Senate work. But that's the way it is, I'm going to be allowed to state, in the countries we compare to making presupposers, they don't put some sort of explosive thing on the program. I wondered if we need to get the president of the council or of the Swedish Parliament to help us, because this is simply beyond our ability. It's just terrible. When the situation is that the government and the rest do not communicate, not even our little fingers, what should we do? You lose your hands. [[The president calls.]] I suggest we start a flight trip for the Swedish president. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u136	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying that I have nothing to go to the conference board. To appoint and encourage members of the Parliament to move on to the program, the president continues the perfunctory discussion of a structured program. It's a hurrying step toward measuring the will of Congress, like the chairman of the Continental Council. paritaprevir The Árni of Páll Árnason, suggested in comments to Presidential conference board at some point in the past week, that heads had to be counted in the management team against this proposal. I agree with that. Let us keep the discussion going so that we can speed up the vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u137	Mr. President. It is not a wish to stand at the General Assembly day after day protesting the program of the meeting and the oppression of the Lord of Allallis, Einar, the son of Kristinn Guðfinnsson, in the manner presented here. But we have to do so because we want to protect and honor the process of a structured program. [[Up front.]] By protesting in this way, and in the only way that we are able, we will, and we will continue to do so. It is worth remembering that the people who are present in the East, and in Akureyri and most likely beyond, do not eat a frame plan. A Ramma plan or the activation options that more than a part of the employment committee would like to put in a draft party will not save this person's pay cover. They do not save the shutdown of 75% room in Southland hospitals, etc. A respectable president. We need to start dealing with the problems the people here are calling for.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u138	A respectable president. There are not many members of the board who participate in this discussion here, but those who do so are absolutely realistic, absolutely realistic, that it is a big deal now to get some measurement of who supports a framework plan and who is not in the administration. What kind of games are we playing? The important thing now is that people deal with the big issues that are being called out here that we deal with. It's the biographies. A respectable president. At midnight, nurses will be added to a strike group. It will have the effect of sending people home from Lands Hospital to a U.S. university hospital. It will have the effect of having to close operating rooms. They will be affected by local medical institutions, such as 75% of all sick victims on Selephoss, and the Western Islands will be closed. Is this okay with you? Last week we, who talked about and worried about slowing down the books in tourism, they would be reduced, they would stop, and thus may have a lasting effect on our tourism in the country, called the plutonium, and I don't know what or what. þm. Jón Gunnar's son from the Assembly Hall. [[The president calls.]] This is all happening, a respectable president. This government is not interested in this, nor is it concerned by any of the government or government groups. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u139	Mr. President. If we get the Lykketoft Mogens that I believe is still the president of the Council of Dance to come here and try to communicate things like that. paritaprevir Brynhildur's daughter, Pétursdóttir, suggested that they be able to attend a convention with the same plane, the highest. Prime Minister and w. Chairman of the Jón Gunnarsson Work Road Committee. A real prime minister would be here at the Assembly Hall these days. He'd be trying to communicate. He would be trying to negotiate on behalf of his government for the advancement of important government issues. But is he here? No, he may have gone back to hiding in the Šbunker, after the weekend's media desert. It may well be. At least we won't be aware of him. How does the government believe that such things will work when it is springtime and that these things need to be handled at council hearing? By hiding? By being away? By throwing the proselytism and filth into the government and the nation along the way? It doesn't happen that way. It was interesting that the chairman of the Independence Party class used to read into the discussion that 25 members of the Governing Body were available and 10 suggestions were available. Was a what? paritaprevir Perhaps Ríkharðsdóttur's daughter is bringing in the question, Is this more important than anything the government is doing? Is a compromise option, huh? paritaprevir The only thing that matters to this government is Jón Gunnarsson's son? [[The president calls.]] Can the rest be served? Perhaps the chairman of the Party of Independence was asking.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u140	V.E.G. President. I come up here to describe a surprising memory of the meeting board taking place here and the program we are invited to attend. This has been shown in the matter of why. Congress officials, such as 75% of Southland nurses, are closing down. That's very serious. I'm also not tired of mentioning that there are farmers who live on the banks of Dura, who are about to be submerged. I really want to know, and I'd love to hear it. South American Parliamenters express their view of how they feel that people should be expelled from their soil without having any consultation with them. It has been shown in interviews with farmers in this area that they have not been contacted at all. It's just for people on their dirty shoes. Doesn't the people of the South think it's a good thing, at least worth considering? I'm the highest. A president to end this discussion and change the program.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u141	Mr. President. I'm here to protest the President's conference board and to protest that this case is still on the agenda. Now, before the weekend, there was a program proposal and a vote on it was postponed because there was no more to it at the Assembly Hall. Then I objected to the conference board. President, I'm protesting again today. I feel like the highest. Mr. President, in the final three weeks of the season, we have not led here as president of the Generals, but, unfortunately, as president of the greater part of the General Assembly. I think it's kind of sad, you know, at least. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u142	A respectable president. I think it's a big mistake for the council president not to have taken this matter off this morning's program following a meeting on a professional committee. It was informed that it is primarily the government's waste layer of engineering and organization in a frame plan that has led to the investigation of activation options to no further than it really is. It was not decided that a project administration would have financial support until February of this year, and when, in the case of the government, it is naturally unmistakably aside that it attempts to compensate for its remains in the task management process by going against legal processes in other respects. There is no evidence to continue this matter when it is in the hot tub and when there is a serious situation in a labour market that would be much more reason to discuss at the General Assembly. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u143	A respectable president. Now this has changed from a filibuster to a lawsuit under the program for President's conference board. Since the start of the program, a total of 1,237 talks have been held, 24 hours under this program, a work schedule of no less than three hours. A respectable president. The program is called for here on the program for the council. I'll suggest that we finish discussing this matter at the meeting. I went over it in the morning newspaper this weekend, how the pot had lived in the last term for the wonderful political horse weddings that took place between the United States and the Left Green. We're winding down that stupid, respectable President, and I recommend that this part of the program continues.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u144	A respectable president. It's good to get the latest numbers from what's happened. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir. I miss a bit that she does not evaluate the content of her conversation and who has the best talk and so forth. [[Up front.]] I think that would be very important for what happened. A senator is listening to what we are saying in our talks. This is not necessarily the amount that divides, it also contains. Of course, 1,200 short speeches, certainly, 24 hours, about the President's conference board is somewhat significant, but what lessons will we learn. A senator to draw from that, what conclusion? Could it be that a large group of senators are so incredibly unhappy with the President's conference board, and what happens to the council? Goes to bed. A senator that is the reason for these talks? I have to say, I think it's amazing that there's a 1,200 hearing for President's conference board and the Supreme Director. The president does not seem to have anything to do with his meeting board. [[The president calls.]] He does not even report to the chairman's meeting to discuss the situation at the council, and there are no indications in the effort to resolve these issues. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u145	A respectable president. I take my leave of absence to answer two excellent speeches. Senators of the greater part, first of all. paritaprevir Unnur Brá Konráðsdóttir, who seems to confuse words with material and material things. This has happened repeatedly here. The difference is, of course, that a material discussion about the matter itself is about the subject, but the critical criticism of the President's meeting board is just as critical, though not materially in terms of activation. When we're complaining about a meeting board, of course, it's very difficult to talk about the President's meeting board. As for the comment, what is it? 2.m. Reykv.. This is how much we've complained and how much we've cried. I'm gonna give her a little parable, hopefully in the 20 seconds I have. When I was young a long time ago, I went to my house sometimes, and I always put my jacket on the floor instead of hanging it up. V.E.G. My mother had reason to complain about this over and over and over again. So what I did was that I took a list, and I started writing down every time she complained, so when she had complained enough, I began to complain at the convention. No, a respectable president, I just hung my jacket up, I matured and listened a little.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u146	V.E.G. President. I'm coming here to say the word. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir protests that this should continue here, i.e. This meeting director. What a tragic and tragic time in the history of the council! I've always been after I became a senator two years ago, the government urged the son of Shimmer Sigmundur, the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson. Prime Minister, to enact agreements with the nation, to talk to the people, and to activate the conversation here in the council more. They've never been heard of it. I remember that in the fall of 2013, during the course of policy, I wanted his government for the best of jobs and the best of my careers, and I so sincerely hoped that it would be the government of the whole country, not a government for just a few. Unfortunately, it seems to be showing that she is only a government for some few people and is completely ignoring the will of a large part of the nation. We just see it out here in the East right now. It may be safe to congratulate her for having managed to drag these people out on this beautiful day.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u147	A respectable president. I just want to go back to where it's been gone. Now I know that members of Congress and the Presidency Committee have been visiting the National Assembly of other countries over the years. So I think it would be very good if we were to get more information about what they're gonna be feeling on these trips. I can't believe it really is that way, let's just take the states of the North, that, of course, there's a controversial issue in every nation council, that the presidents and Ministers don't do anything about it, let's not sit down with a position of government, and look for ways to settle. Are there any examples of this? I don't know what I'm talking about. Is it so amazing that I - can hurt these men in here to talk to us? A respectable president. In effect, I have to expect the president to act as some sort of reconciliation person on the case, to call for a meeting, and to have men and women sit down to discuss this and reach a conclusion. This isn't working. - Do I have more time?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u148	I think time was over, but there's some trouble with the metering process.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u149	V.E.G. President. I reiterate my wish to sit down for a meeting with members of the council and review the issues presented here for discussion and try to find out if a program is offered for this council and only to consider whether the government intends to continue this process because of the changes made by more part of the employment committee. Now, we've been protesting here for two weeks. The government is in a state of chaos, and thousands of people are outside the house, and I also understand in Akureyri to protest the government. It is protesting, among other things, the growing division of possessions and the resource management, which the frame is certainly linked, but the protests are, of course, based on deep dissatisfaction in the long - term way in which we manage our resources. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u150	A respectable president. We will continue our discussion of the Council's Re-Election proposal or adjustment proposal at the highest level. Ministers of Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, the Environment Minister, that whale activation will be put into a novelty party with a change in plans. The four additional activation committees, which have been gathered to three more in the Senate and under discussion, are delighted, although we have truly had to include some of the remaining requests for the adjustment. I had some expectations to see the change, and maybe especially the logic of the change, because I thought it was quite interesting to see how it could be reasoned with myself to stop using Hag Lake, but I continue to plan to make use of a rock power supply and to use the activation in lower part of Þjórjörður, because it's the publication of the Organization's Office of the Management Board of Change Act on all these changes, with the President's permission: Since no logical support is made with the proposal, it is not available whether professional evaluations of the Framework Act require that be made, as outlined in the chapter above lead to the proposal. This is stated in the review of the Organization for Holta and Uryr deduction. Also said for globular activation, there is no logical support, as is Hagah Lake. So the Agency responsible for the assessment of environmental impacts and their implementation and monitoring of them is the opinion that the matter is to the point of overlooking the fact that there is no evidence to support it. I feel that there is some concern, for one thing is to disagree about the material content here at the council, but another is when the greater part in the power of the greater part of it allows it to fail to support its conclusions. I think it's a bad practice in general not to try to back up at least what you suggest unless it's true that the argument means one thing, that is, in fact, a secondary question of the argument, and that it is presented in the same way as sometimes said, and I don't deny that at times you have even thought about it. I'd like to say, and many have put it this way in this discussion that a frame plan is a precious process and one of our responsibilities in the discussion and payment ahead that we keep the process of stratosphere because of the length of its history and how far back it goes, that is why we have several duties to that process. It is about comparing protection values to those used for energy in a number of areas under each section of the Framework Programme. So now we're under the 3rd stipulation of a current framework program, and the project management has four years the highest to complete its task, and the project management has held it in place so that there are 26 benefits. In many ways, the discussion has changed in all of its recent losses. The discussion has changed in some ways toward greener viewpoints. Hence, it can rightly be said that this great force that is behind the changes in the employment committee and that a great use of power is evident on the suggestion of a general green wave in the community. In other words, almost all classes are beginning to realize that we put more emphasis on green views and more emphasis on environmental issues in all our decisions. That's a change from what was just a few years ago, and that's why this suggestion is a little like a time machine, is somehow looking through a window back to the past. Of course, there is a measure of pity for those who have taken up debates about employment, growth, progress, structure, etc. At the time of the same relationship between their terms and almost limitless activation of natural resources. But how sad it is for us to face up to the fact that this convincing force from the rear of the second century C.E. is being taken up by this great body of elders! I have to say, I'm worried because I'm so convinced that this is a time error, that the adjustment of the majority of the employment committee is a time error. It is hardly surprising to remember that the discussion of the protection of the highlands and the larger areas on the highlands has grown greatly. When surveys are made to see how much of the universe in the eyes of Iceland, we are talking about a very large proportion of the people who believe that these are such valuables that they cannot be offered in any way. And not only are we valuable for tourism but we are valuable for the future because we have some sort of natural value that does not have parallel value and that is why we do not have the right to use energy in that area. This is in itself a new thought, or i.e. It's new how central it's become. I remember that from what happened. paritaprevir Elín Hirst is here in the hall that she wrote a fine article in the recent News magazine about the importance of protecting the vast and highlands. There are not many voices from the Independence Party or from the forward party of that voice, but they really do exist. That's why, so you put a name and identification number on this discussion under what is discussed here, it's not about putting somebody in a group of innovations, but only because we haven't discussed it as an independent subject, not under the discussion of a frame plan, not under the debate on nature protection laws, but under the independent obligation of what obligation we have left behind, to preserve the highland and vastness for future generations and in the interest of nature. We haven't had that discussion yet. We're always taking it under some sort of novelty, novelty or protective wind, a conflict between these two views. I am telling you that these views are not in sufficient force when yolk activation is proposed to promote more part of the workauthority committee because it does not promote the rationalization of dealing with the reality that ganglification damages the whole area of the highlands. It is not addressed in any way as to the modification of the greater part's proposals, but as though it did not matter. It is a reality that we face when we receive the list of priming options that it does not work to match activation options in highly advanced areas and completely unscrupulous areas. It is in nature that this will not be determined. That's what we're going to talk about. Is there a big difference between the unscrupulous and personal? We need to talk about this. Then we need to determine whether the evidences that have been presented for the lower part of the Tubs and are subject to the wild salmon strain are strong enough to keep us taking into account until they are destroyed. We're just going to say, "This is a full research in my opinion, it's a full research in my opinion. paritaprevir Willum Þór Þórsson or anyone else here, this is fully investigated and I'm going to decide that Uryrofos will be activated and then stuck with it in some undefined future to cause permanent damage to the largest wild salmon stock in the North Atlantic? Are we ready for that? It is, in fact, the tangible reality of this matter. A respectable president. I've finished my case this time. It was only 10 minutes, and it seems to me that I have more talks to do so that I ask to be put back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u151	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I agree with her on all these matters, and I just think that evolution is that there are always more and more people who realize that activation is irreversible. We're on the site of activation that we need to decide whether we're going to go further into the central areas of Iceland, and that's no longer a virgin. There are questions that hang on to the mystery of The Devil, which, in many respects, is the first step there. But I wanted to ask you what. A senator's comment on a particular viewpoint was made in the case of the head of a professional committee earlier today when he said - I don't remember what he was saying, but such a speech is often in the discussion. They say: We have to put these initiatives through. Such intelligent activations and left greens will always be the opposite, so there will never be any peace with it anyway. I would like to have the president's reaction to the left-hand party in the exact case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u152	A respectable president. That's a very good question. There we are, in effect, talking about two things: We are talking about the basic nature protection issues. I have come to believe that there is still much to be done. I think we've already activated enough for now. I believe that today's generation has no right to eliminate all possible active force. Why should we do so, not people born to 2040 or 2080? So I think it's enough to do. However, I find it extremely important, when a parapolitic community has been reached through some kind of process and some kind of equipment, the scene, the scene to resolve a situation, we might not destroy that device. I don't necessarily agree with the conclusions the device offers. For example, in January 2013, I did not agree with the introduction of firethrowers to a novelty party, and I doubt that they would. A senator agreed either. However, we believed that the instrument was precious to us that it had to be guided, so the results were the result.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u153	A respectable president. I think it's important to discuss this completely, I'm aware among the members of the board that they actually experience themselves as victims in this because left greens will never give up, and that's why these government groups will be now when they decide to use the opportunity to get it through. I'm beginning to feel this presentation very strong. I think it is very important to remind you in a discussion of the frame plan process that the material conclusion from the order of activation may never be that everyone is happy. I didn't like the activations of Smokeynes. There was a much greater demand for this activation in the last terms than about the lower part of the Year. However, the task management decided that it was okay to place the benefits into a novelty party. In this, they want to forget that there were many people who had to accept it. [[The president calls.]] If left - green, they may need to assure people that they are respected for the process. And if left greens are willing to respect it and a bright future are the same, are not all others to do so?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u154	The president asks why. A senator's reputation. We still have a slight problem with the timing, but we try to make sure that we get the time that is set before them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u155	A respectable president. To want to go in the process does not take away the right to reason on some of the advantages. This does not mean that even if you agree to the process or agree to the task, you are content with the results. You're supposed to be ready to argue with it and discuss it. I deserve the right to do so anyway. And because we're talking Haggis, I think it's too soon to activate there. In fact, as noted in Þóra Ellen Þórhallsdóttir's special journal, to conclude at the conclusion of the project management, I believe that by plucking out one option, as was done there after a letter from the highest level. Minister, in fact, a person does not fully respect the methodology of a frame plan that is always about ordering and comparing many options.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u156	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's reputation for a good speech. It's fine when things are delivered clearly and taken to the main points. I remember that time when the current storm. A senator was then the highest. Environment Minister, who was now the highest authority on political horse trade, considered Iceland's economic problem. The complete denial of the collapse is reflected in these cowardly ideas. Now we're on the other side of it. I wanted to ask you what. A member of Parliament whether it will blow our mind that now that we are straightening out the cow after the great economic shock caused by the collapse of the bank and the collapse of the Icelandic crown, it is thought that it would be necessary to destroy the dream of the unnorable universe and the protection of the central highlands in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u157	A respectable president. I don't necessarily want to make the problem we're stuck with at the council at what time. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson. Yet, he has taken the lead among those who have made the adjustment and who have reasoned primarily on it. As mentioned in my brief talk earlier, it is not a secret to conceal the more logical support in the middle of the 20th century because of their understanding of professional life, progress, potential for young people, business wheels, etc. It's like the other side. A senator and those who accept the proposal have not given up on speech and emphasis on the 21st century. This is a concern, for under it too is the understanding of the importance of uninhabited places.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u158	V.E.G. President. Hv. In his talk, a senator mentioned that it was as if we were on a time machine. It may not be strange, since we live here in a government that looks more or less like the ancient laws of the old 50-50 bill. They talk about political horse markets. It is so important to review it here regularly during the discussion, since there is so much persistence... [a call at the Hall of Congress.] Excuse me, I was distracted by this phone. - It's a political persistence. How did this alleged horse wedding come about? Were the decisions made to set options for protection or to make choices that would protect and put them into use? Watch your step. A senator reminded me of this?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u159	A respectable president. It is a pleasure to be able to handle this committee's opinion with a change form from a greater part of the employment committee, which is precisely signed by the river. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, Haraldur Benediktsson, Ásmundur, Páll Jóhann Pálsson, Þorsteinn the Sæmundsson of Sæmunds, and Þórunn's Egilsdóttir, Friðriksson, who sits here. On page 18. 2 shows up, with President's permission: ◯ In accordance with provisional measures, the exact procedure is being carried out. A senator refers to the law as a valid proposal for action sent to the council in the summer of 2011 by the then industrial minister. Based on the comments received during the reporting process, some changes were made in the schedule before proposaling to be concluded before the council. In accordance with provisional regulations in the law - why. Congress officials need to observe something consistent in their language. I'm guessing the nominee was a why. The job commission on the part of a panel does not appear to appear to be self - esteem, claiming that a political horse wedding was fundamental to something that was subversed by a current law code.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u160	A respectable president. I didn't come to ask what. 4th, including That's the north side. " Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, on how we can change a frame plan or what ideas we can discuss in these subjects in an effort to make this process work for the future. Clearly, there is much disagreement about how a frame plan works, as it was during the last term, and I let myself be completely at peace with what that criticism or conflict was based on a grammatical foundation or on the basis of what was judged the process. It remains that there is much controversy over the process and apparently by the former government, which is now in smaller parts, and the former smaller parts, which are now in the government. I wonder what. A senator would prefer to see that the process can be fixed so that we can get back a frame plan where we can honestly say that all members of Congress vote with some sort of motion in this seminar.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u161	A respectable president. First, about the legal uncertainty. I'd like to make a full recommendation. The employment committee, or most of it, is illegal. At the very least, it is based on such a unstable legal basis that it actually aims for the activation initiatives so adopted, with their equipment, on endless charges and resolution conditions. I don't believe that Landing is interested in sitting by such processes, and it's important to the energy companies that there's an unscrupulous legal foundation on which it's based. Because of what? A senator asks what might be considered in the current legal system so that for the better, I think that it is important, first, to strengthen the situation of the Parliament in relation to the proposals of the project at any given time and to prevent tensions or disagreements about what is in force and what is not. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u162	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I just agree with what. A senator says that there is no legal uncertainty about what happened during the last term, at least according to the data I have come in and according to my best understanding of them. However, there is now another difference that is justified in doing so. People are saying that this is doing exactly what was done during the last terms, which, of course, is not correct if you examine the data fairly, but they say it is. There must be something we can do to make a person feel at peace. I particularly wondered, which reminds me of the Committee's Section 2 of the Employment Committee at the 141th Council. It's about the idea of having an extra party that's some sort of novelty company, I don't have a better word, which is the position these might be in while they're in the limo between waiting and innovation. [[The president calls.]] I wonder what's wrong. A senator would like such an option.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u163	A respectable president. I remember this discussion, and I didn't particularly like that idea. It means that the net is more dense than it is today, instead of three categories, there are others, and they could also have a protection party, and what would be in it? In itself, we would have even more opinions. I'd like to agree with it as the ultimate. The Environment and Resource Minister Sigrún Magnúsdóttir has said. I agree so deeply with her, and I think some of the reasons I've been inside the Environment and Resource Ministry. It is very important that current legislation is unconcerned, that the law as it is now being passed through a single round of the project products for a minister who then receives a release at the council, and after that it will be over in a transverse agreement to consider the benefits and benefits of legislation, because it will certainly come up with a matter of opinion that is worthy to be considered.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u164	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Svandís's Svavarsdóttir is so much for the speech. She made some impressions where I can agree with her and other matters, since I can disagree with her. But it is not important when such an important matter is on the program. It is important that I respect her opinions, even though I do not agree with them and am quite ready to listen to them. I agree with what it says that nature protection in Icelandic politics is completely parapolitic. She is not some private group at the council. I just want to back up the trend that it will continue. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, in view of the tremendous potential of Icelanders to become the headlands of green energy, see how they can make it possible for us to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u165	A respectable president. Thank you. The contrary and the vow to support her conduct and the rest of its members in other categories who want to make their green viewpoints. I think it's extremely important, and I agree with it. Iceland has now been regarded as the leading country of green energy. We have a very strong position on renewable energy sources to power sources, and that's important. I used to sit in the management of Reykjavík's Power Office, and I've seen a lot about what's going on in the calculus, and that's where I'm letting myself worry very much. I think there are a number of views there and non-exploited subjects for sulphur hydrogen pollution, deforestation, seismic activity, and so some of the similar factors, so geotherms are something that would actually need a complete review. It does not necessarily mean that they are our weights on the scales of renewable energy.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u166	A respectable president. You're right about what you're doing. A senator and I have written on the press on the highlands and how important a resource is to us in the region of the highlands, so it doesn't take a very deep - wise person to see it in his hand that trying to disturb the highlands is something that man does not do unless it's so considered. But I have a little bit of concern, my Icelanders and I are in that situation, not just the highland as a resource, but huge green energy resources that I would like to provide for myself as a means of access, for example, to transport in Iceland in the next few decades, I'm concerned that we're not using our resources. At the same time, we do so wisely.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u167	A respectable president. I know it's not a custom to raise a question to a senator when he's actually burned up, as they say. But I think the senator may owe us the answer to the question, Is it to be activated in the Cradle Cystician act that harmonizes with the view of the importance of wildness, since that is, in fact, the question that hangs in the air? As for our contribution to green energy, I believe Iceland can simply say that in the year 2030 or 2050, we have a carbon-free land, a carbon-free country where we are not just reducing greenhouse gas emissions to some extent and to a similar extent that happens in the countries around us, but we are planning to become a carbon-free country. This can be done primarily by reducing transport emissions. It is our largest means of making changes in transport energy, as well as by building up and increasing the potential for cycleing, walking, and public transport.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u168	A respectable president. I would like to begin by being completely clear about my position on this whole matter, whether in terms of the specific activation initiative as the original proposal for the Supreme Court. The Environment and Resource Minister is developing, which is Hamp activation, or the activation options referred to in the modification plan. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son and a lot of it. Business committee. All I'm up for this is saving a frame plan. It is an attempt to try to have one of the most controversial languages in the modern history of Iceland in a career that is well - established. Now, over and over again, it goes off course of course. The members of the greater part that this is being done exactly the same, correct, dignified president, and was done during the last term. That's basically wrong. First, it is not exactly the same as putting something into a novelty party and putting something into a waiting party. It's just not the same thing. Just as it's not the same thing putting something in a reservation, and putting something into a waiting party, it's not the same thing to turn green light into red and red light to green. This is different. We're not supposed to pretend it's the same thing. In addition to the process, there is a difference between legal or political processes, normal, and rightly controlled by humans. But even if we act as if there is no legal question here, if we allow ourselves to do so, we still have political differences. And we must want to resolve that disagreement. I'm sure that's what we want. I don't think anyone really wants to have a disagreement on this matter. I think there's a few things going on. People don't care if there's a disagreement about it, a fun thing, but they're not. Councilmen who talk most about the fact that no one else seems to want to agree that they don't want any names above anyone else. If we are to discuss some outstanding activation initiatives that follow the adjustment plan. First, we need to settle the question about a frame plan. Now I can go out in a material way to specific activation options because I'm not against all of them. I don't favor all of them either, but I'm not necessarily against all of them. But we need to be able to settle the question of a frame plan. The problem we face here is that we are expected to settle this matter, this specific activation option, not the whole frame plan or how we are going to view the legitimate framework plan, but this specific activation option before we can finish the discussion on how we are going to maintain a framework for the future. That is because I once again suggest that this matter be canceled until we have had time and time to approach the question of discretion and professionalism that we should make a requirement of ourselves. Until we've had that talk about a frame plan and the basics of how we're going on, I don't think it's time for me to discuss a unique activation option. Besides this, I'd like to point out the only fact that if this process here is to be legitimate, I mean political legitimate, not legal, and, as we imagine, a frame plan, we're back with the unique activation of material resources back here into the council. Material items, the so - called professional assessment, are back in here. The whole purpose of a frame plan was to avoid precisely that. So if we allow this trial to happen, we cannot pretend that a frame plan is still in effect, or at least not that it has achieved its political objective. And then let's just admit it and start over again rather than this half-heartedly to present this proposal under a fake frame plan and pretend that we're doing it in accordance with a frame plan. Even if it's legal, it's not political, and it's not completely honest. In terms of a unique activation option, I find that I am alone in determining that Hag-water activation has been introduced into this transitional proposal just to the point. In turn, a professional committee may take it back to show how much it is outspoken and fair about criticism. Of course, there can be no doubt that Hagwater activation has ever been viewed by step two or any other stage manager that it belongs to a novelty class. It proves that much of it is disrespectful. The job committee for the procedure. That proves true, and I would say, even if I had unsatisfactory doubts. That's a problem, a respectable president. That's a problem we shouldn't pretend we don't exist. As I have said before, I object to the activation of Uryrofos, but, of course, there is an acceptable professional evaluation that is not yet available because of the salmon population. By their economic activation, I think it seems quickly to me, with the warning that not all of her intestines are buried in her terms, she is not at all stupid; she even seems to be good for the environment quickly seen, so it should not be a material controversy about her on my part, if I understand this correctly. In the end, it is not a matter of material differences about outstanding initiatives. Hv. The members of the United States have repeatedly said that they would prefer to support some activation options because it's not that we want to activate or activate everything, it's not that simple. But when we take away the basic frame plan, we have nothing left but a discussion about whether we are in general favor of activation or not. That's because we're having fun, so I'm gonna give myself a modern case, a respectable president, that a frame plan was set up to begin with, in order to avoid disagreements about what is at home in a professional opinion. This, of course, means that some initiatives have to go through professional food. In fact, it should be enough to point out, and it has been done repeatedly, that the task management did not suggest a change in the activation initiatives in the lower Þjótur, i.e. Neither Holtic activation, Uryrofos reactivation, nor the rest, given the 2013 Parliamentary arrangement. We should not pretend to be in some process that can be comfortable if we are not going to discuss a frame plan, not a single activation option, but a frame plan itself, how we're going to have this process, because there's a disagreement about it. Whether people like it or not, people don't have the same view as to how the process should work. That's why we're here arguing about it. There are a number of factors. If you look at committee opinions from the first term or this terms, if you dive into the case, you will find that there's a lot of ideas, e.g. how the narrative was to work in the last terms and whether it was a proper minister to reassign the pros and cons - I think that's all right, I don't see it, but the precautionary principle is important. I'm gonna back her up. I think everybody should do it, but there's still some differences about that, and I admit it, I can see that. It is important that we settle this issue before making lasting decisions. It showed the greatest difference between putting something into a novelty party, i.e. to activate something and not activate something. Not to activate something is not a permanent provision. On the other hand, to activate something is, at least to many of these factors, not completely understood by exorbulatory activation, but in the case of lower tissue wounds, it is a lasting effect. Being careful can never be compared to going too fast. I find this obvious following the discussion that has taken place here. I'm sure we'll be waiting to discuss this further until we've been given a proper discussion within a council that has a bearing on how we're going to plan a frame plan for the future. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u169	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a good speech. Now, we actually have some kind of work that we've decided and put into law, i.e. Frame plan, and find a specific way to assess activation options. No doubt everyone will be happy, but this is a way to reconcile their viewpoints so that at least the nation can be reasonably at peace with the process. This is probably the best way, I would think, in view of the fact that we have a case that can directly break the nation. When it comes to activation, there are strong opinions and for good reason. I wondered, if we're not going to respect the procedure as it has been revealed here, where more than a part of the employment committee just took the case and brought some suggestions on the contrary to what the process is expected, whether those who are not at odds with the process and think it would not have been good enough to change the law. Wouldn't it have been a better way to say it was too complicated, it would've taken too long or something? Then it would have been like any other case that would come in here and have three discussions, and so on. I'd love to hear what we're talking about. A senator says so. I feel like the other part is going wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u170	A respectable president. Basically, I feel that before discussing this matter, before the proposed changes were made and in fact before a council proposal came from the highest court. The Environment and Resource Minister would have men, if they were not at odds with the procedure as it was during the last term, should begin by answering that question and then presenting a bill asking that the procedure be fixed. If so, we could have had three discussions about laws and settle that question right away. I think it would have been better for everyone, including those who want to activate. That's different. I don't step in a pit as some special opponent of the continuum transfunctioner. Sometimes I'm against them, and sometimes I'm against them. But even if you're in favor of activation, then you must want the process to be settled. I think this approach is crazy. There are many ideas I can imagine living in a certain law-change situation, e.g. one who may be on the more radical side, having more classes, not just a colony, a waiting party, and a protection party, but some sort of intervening party. That's one idea. It may vary in the way people feel about it. Hv. ................... The Sigurður of Ingi Jóhannsson's son thought it well, in fact, suggested at the time of committee 2 on a smaller part of the employment committee. Another thing that may be possible, but I don't know how complicated it would be in the light of how the system works, it's that environmental assessments are available before priming are put into a category. This is a follow-up, which means that priming options are placed into a colony, followed by environmental assessment. Maybe it's the wrong order. They'd need to be examined. Something else that has happened since the day of rest. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson is the question of whether the testing cannot be done under the supervision of a waiting factor. This is controversial because people want to deny that as soon as research is done, they have made up their minds. I don't quite agree with that, at least at the moment. That's another idea. The role of the review process is needed, which was debated during the last term. Then, questions about the renewal of environmental assessment need to be settled before reinsertion of priming options, as done during the last terms. [[The president calls.]] All of these are questions that we should be discussing but that we cannot until this matter is held in hand. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u171	I'm totally agreeing with what. Senator. These questions are very important and really what we should be discussing. This is incomprehensible. If they were so conflicted with the process and what happened during the last terms, why didn't they file a case, change a law, new law, or something? I don't think they quite saw what they were doing. Another factor in this matter is that it is now in a complete and seemingly difficult state to make peace. If the greater part, the Governments, doesn't want to meet the smaller parts, it's gonna get a whole lot complicated. That's what I'm talking about. A senator with some solution to how to wound the hall at the highest level. Secretary of the budget and the highest. The prime minister who is responsible for this? It must be their responsibility to look for solutions in this matter. We've always said we're ready to sit down, but how do we hurt the men in the room?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u172	A respectable president. Here is a deeper question to answer in a minute and even if it was two. In short, we have a problem with the case now, i.e. that we've talked about this in the third week, and that there's nothing we can do about any agreement about how we're going to continue, the weakness of the memory. In my opinion, the less part of the council must be able to bring matters to the nation when such differences arise. First of all, the conversation should take place before the discussion is here. Also, I think it would be good for members of Congress to face only the issue before the public. What would people say? What would it discuss? And last but not least, how would it vote? I think this is a good question when we bring a case into the council. I think we should ask ourselves that question more often. That arrangement is to be held in a constitution and law, but it should not depend on how we feel about it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u173	Mr. President. Hv. A senator put it just fine earlier that if we went outside the box, it might be said that we're a little bit like dates in these days. I'd like to ask you what. A senator in this process and whether he sees the purpose of the greater part in this process when it has been found that the task management will achieve 26 benefits, sorting them and that they will be completed with the classification no later than September 1, 2016. It has been found that if, for example, Holta's activation was to become a novelty now, in this case, it would never be carried out until the first in 2018. See what? A senator, such as me and others, the purpose of this bypass, unless he or she is totally planning to compromise with a frame plan and without all logical support for these benefits, as it seems to be, and also that a lawsuit and other factors might follow? It is now clear that the 14-year-old environmental assessment of Holtic activation and Urtic acid reactivation suggests that a new environmental assessment is needed. No matter how urgent it is to push along outside the box, there are many factors that can't escape. Counts 'em out. Don't you think a senator would be wise to stay within the box and avoid having a lot of fun out here?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u174	A respectable president. I suspect the elephant in the room is the most altruistic slave monkey I know of - proud, I think men are too proud at this point to back up with these ideas. Perhaps it is something to teach that has spoken but strongly against this, but we must not let our pride govern this council. It just happened this morning at the time. The job committee, if I correctly understand these timeliness that seem to make this totally unnecessary now, as if it did not so clearly appear, on the other hand, no one could answer why these things are in the past except out of collective agreements somehow, it was easily answered by calling it the nonsense that it is, it's just nonsense. But the pride was revealed this morning at the moment. A professional health committee. We're on the third week of our discussion here, and we're all locked up, so maybe it's a little hard for a man to try to take it out of the information we have here. It is, of course, a human emotional problem that you would wish would not have such an impact on the Senate work, but it is impossible when the General Assembly is composed of people. For one thing, it is for the reasons I find so important that it is a way for the nation itself, not just the smaller part of the council, but the nation itself and the lesser part of the council, to shoot things for the people so that they may have to, so well, to see through such feelings when they get in the way of pride now. To answer that. Senator, I suspect this rush in timing has something to do with fear of the next election, i.e. that the next more things could somehow ruin the process. Then we're back to the bigger question we should be talking about here tonight, i.e. how the frame will work in the future no matter what any individual government thinks. That's a bigger question we should be discussing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u175	Mr. President. Now, in the discussion, people have hidden behind the issue so much pressure to activate because of the number of energy buyers in line and the need for energy. However, this morning at a meeting of the employment committee, however, it was also noted that the European Commission has no committed contracts on the table. There are certainly four silica bodies inside, and two of them do not have any contracts. One of them has received a 1⁄2 contract of what it needs, and a silica plant on the Back has the energy of Theistarinactivation. I'd like to ask you what. A senator will see if we are to look into such parts of a stage in order to press activation like an aquarium of 350 megawatts and an aluminium in Helgavík up to 625 megawatts.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u176	A respectable president. To me, there's nothing on this, even from those reasons. That's what I'm saying. I'm not in trouble. A professional commission is that of my colleague and of my party brother, Jón Þór Ólafsson, why. Tenth. Smoke. s., which certainly was at the meeting this morning. Perhaps I would have liked to take a better look at these psalms if I had been at that meeting. But with all the questions about how much energy we need, there must be something we can give ourselves, at least in the vacuum we're going to get if this case wasn't scheduled for this uniform right now. We should be able to take care of Aggressiveness alone despite these concerns and discuss them on the subject rather than throw in a lot of additional options that have not been discussed in the third stage of a series, which is therefore causing all these conventions and all these differences. Today, rather than discussing material things that we could do in the case of the highest order, we go into the third week of our discussion. A minister would be here alone to discuss, which she is sadly not.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u177	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson for a fine speech. Hv. A senator came to the main ingredient of the prince's side of the discussion that focuses on a framework of resource protection and use as the process of reconciliation that all members of Congress were at their time agree that was the tool we needed to settle on the balance of innovation and protection, about how we, if I put it further, make a very large amount of money from our resources for energy efficiency. Hv. At the same time, a senator took note that he was not opposed to any extraordinary activations in material matters, with or against everyone. Hv. A senator stressed settling this process, a frame plan, before discussing the subject on which it is planned, this activation option to appear in a modification form at the moment. Business committee. Now I want to go to the question. Now all of these were in the newcomer class of frame 2 and then moved to a waiting party. I wondered, " What is this? ' A senator was pointing out that we should take this matter off, settle these standards, then a frame plan, as a policy of reconciliation before we can discuss these advantages. I want to ask you why. A senator can see exactly how he sees the separation of these factors because they have been studied and covered thoroughly with these activation options.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u178	A respectable president. First of all, Hagium activation was not part of the second stage of the framework. Second, if all of these opinions have been investigated, then the step 3 of the Framework Programme should not have any problem with answering these questions very quickly. If all these data are available, if these questions have been answered, you should not have to wait a year and a half. Similarly, Project 3 would likely suggest that these benefits would be placed into a category of innovation, such as the Part 2 projection board. I'm quite aware that if the only question is whether the project management of stage 3 will get its job done, taking into account the data as well. A professional health committee has taken up a collection, and I don't think it's wrong for people to just do it. But that's not what we're talking about here. Here we will discuss whether we will accept or reject these specific activation options. If it were merely Haggis, then I would certainly not be here with this uplift. I don't know exactly if I'd vote with or against Whale activation, that's one of the activations I haven't quite formed a final opinion. I agree to agree with her or to vote with her, but I'm not sure. Of Holtic activation, I'm even less sure. I'm sure I'd vote against Uryrofostician activation. There is no more evidence in economic water activation; it has not been fully explored, but I am positive for it. Also, with their due warning, I understand that it opens the way to the central highland for other fortresses, which I simply do not know completely and that I have not yet had the opportunity to study. So it's all in advance. But a 35 megawatt activation that should be below the earth does not sound terrible to me, i.e. if there's not enough electrical lines in the air, which I'm against too. We can talk about this all the time, but I don't think it's appropriate to discuss the basis of a structured frame plan when we face up to this particular priming option that we are starting a material discussion, a discussion that is at hand in a professional process. The political process has been replaced by a professional process. [[The president calls.]] That's what I think is wrong. I can't believe it's going to work if it settles down on how these matters will be handled in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u179	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's answers are excellent. Hv. The employment committee has agreed to wait on Hagah Lake and to reduce the benefits of the changes they originally had. Later, I would like to step aside from the material side of the matter and ask why. A senator's view of building in energy-rich industry. Now the discussion shows that many projects are involved, important Icelandic economy and employment. The Committee has been planned for projects in Helguvík and in Grundartanga. Enforcement in Þjórðar is a key factor in their progress of existing projects. What's your attitude? A senator to this future development and to the projects of energy - efficient industry?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u180	A respectable president. I understand, in fact, that one of the advantages of a silica plant on Grundartan is just how little energy is needed. According to that, I just don't know them very well, so I'm saying right now. In general, I'd like to activate water - it's got environmental advantages to produce electricity, and I'm not against water power activation. I'm much more academic, if I say just the way it is, on aquifer, because it turns out that at first it's not completely renewable, at all times don't always, and it solves some substances that we don't want to solve, which have a greenhouse effect, etc. So I'm more positive about water power activation than anything else, I think, at least in this country. This doesn't make me feel justified in asking political questions into things that are part of a professional career. Therefore, in these circumstances, I feel that it is not appropriate for us to discuss all these advantages. In case of a moment. The employment committee would withdraw these benefits for now and pick them up later, after the third stage of the frame plan, I wouldn't be arguing so much over it, including the President's conference board. But we're arguing about it. If we were to just use Hlaming Syndrome, I don't see that it was such a big deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u181	Mr. President. It would be interesting to hear more about the grandest intentions. In view of the fact that he announced to us before the weekend that he had decommissioned a work programme. I told them that we had an understanding that a work plan would not be held, but I emphasized that as soon as we were put on some frame, we really knew which frame we were working on. One of the things that has happened is that meetings are now set. 10 in the morning and a board is not active. So there is no way for the chairman of the committee to arrange a meeting at a normal time to finish it. I'd like to point out that it's very important that the President meets with a rush. Congress leaders to get something wrong on this frame as soon as possible so that we don't spend more time than is necessary in this discussion, which I've been discussing, many times before being on the program. Of course, some frame must first be set and discussed. They haven't been here yet. I now pronounce my disappointments as I'm getting closer to dinner on Tuesday, that we're still in the same confusion as before the weekend.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u182	Mr. President. I took a walk to the Eastern court earlier to hear what the people who are there to object to the council's activities. There is much to do in the work of the council, as we do in the opposition. It is not surprising that legal procedures are not being carried out in a frame plan. It is not surprising that this work does not work with government officials. There's a problem with terms in this country. It is against this government that she has not thought of the terms of those less fortunate in the land. People don't like the fact that there's still no such resource rules in the constitution, and there's a problem with giving the mackerel to a handful of agents. I accept the protests out here and protest that this matter is still on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u183	A respectable president. I'd like to explain that there has been a meeting of the party classes at dinner break that will probably be around 730. I expect and hope that this will be the time for us to have some conversations, hopefully some materially, about how Congress discontinuation will be accomplished, as well as about the annoying situation that we now enjoy, and has been repeatedly suggested. We have often complained at a council hall about how the council works and how bad a man can prepare himself from day to day. Today, with every passing day ahead, we are out of business, so that is one of the things that must be discussed at a meeting of the council groups in order to try to get some minimum border around the coming council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u184	A respectable president. I'm wondering why this part of the program is not postponed so that we can discuss all the important things we're told to wait for. Perhaps it would be good to have some members of the management team come up here in the speech chair under discussion about the President's conference board and explain why we don't put this group aside, let's take him out of the program. It's nothing that matters right now. There are vital issues we should discuss. I'd like an explanation from the rest of it. We're offering to discuss this later. We can talk about it in the summer if there's some kind of party to it. There are many urgent matters that we would like to set for the program right now. Why not? That's incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u185	Mr. President. I've had a bad time. A successful environmental minister, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, has not been present today. I have every reason to be present if he, I thought, appeared in his case in unsubstantiated inquiries, actually supports more part of the employment committee in this process. Also, I think they're getting pretty low on their feet, huh? The members of Jón Gunnarsson's son and Páll Jóhann Pálsson's son about being present in a chamber. That's what they're up to. Of course, members of Congress are to stay here and participate in discussions and objections, this is the heart issue under which the entire council is under attack.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u186	Mr. President. I have to agree with what. Chairman of the left movement ▪ Green Pronunciation, the daughter of Katrín, of Jakobsdóttir's daughter, that it is unacceptable that a table is not in progress. This morning, there were two meetings at the same time, i.e. Two committees I have in my office were meeting. So we can expect the next few weeks, or however long as the council is to stand as uncertain as it is today, that those sitting on more than one committee, all of whom take turns on the days of the week, will be able to land in the day after day to meet at the same time. These are not substantiated tactics, as we've come in many times, not knowing tomorrow's schedule until we go home to sleep in the evening, which has been rather late. That, of course, is very unfortunate. So I think, as I said earlier today, this is a waiting hall, not a Senate hall, and while we wait for the case that the government is going to win, settle, and agree in their own study, we're being given a lot of talk about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u187	V.E.G. President. I am once again in the public assembly to protest the President's conference board and the council program as it is requested. As has the power to hear in this hall, from the hatch that fights from the outside, there are more than a whale. Congress officials are not at all at all at odds with the Generals' program. The Protestants began to gather for more than two hours, and if we here are not going to listen to the voices of the people who come and gather here, I really don't know what we're doing at work. We're elected agents, including. the people outside, and of course we should listen to their demands. Among them is the setting up of the words that are, of course, in solution for these days.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u188	A respectable president. There is good reason to remind us that we are not, in effect, using the time to fix what needs to be corrected or to discuss what needs to be discussed in Icelandic society today. Outside here, we are slowly breaking up protests that I dare not say how large but certainly there were thousands of people there, to be sure. The media may soon find out how many people were there, but this was at least a full Eastern court and a loud noise heard into the chamber. The reason is simple: dissatisfaction with government. It is one of the problems that confronts today's high World Council and Government, away from the specific problems we have discussed here, such as the quarreling and other matters. There is good reason for this council to start getting together and discussing a wider conference of presidents, with longer talks in the special program, and perhaps with a democracies, the constitution, and other matters that have long since arrived to be discussed at the General Assembly. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u189	A respectable president. The above indication regarding the committee is of great importance because, already, at the end of the council, many committees are being worked very quickly. The last loyal ones of visitors are being called, the committees are scheduled to be assembled, and members of the Parliament need to take steps to determine whether they are at the majority or if they need to be of special opinion, make adjustments, etc. It is unacceptable for the presidents to be called just a self - appointed case of when they announce a meeting, and members of the Parliament get caught up on one another to be named on committees they are involved in, and thus they lose the convergence in the discussion of the events that are at the end of the term in the treatment of members of the Committee. I must insist very strongly, Mr. President, that there is a special inspection and that some sort of temporary committee table is pulled in to prevent this crash.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u190	A respectable president. I think there's some kind of misunderstanding going on in the greater part if he thinks it's just about us, 25 people in this room, that's more of a problem, like we're the only Icelanders who have any interest in this matter and want to stop it. It's not like that. We represent our voters. Then there is a group out there, and those reading the magazines should see that the greater part of the trial is being treated. I don't understand why the greater part is not more concerned with getting up here on the speaker's chair and trying to justify its actions. And as I said in the past, we may be able to calm down by taking the matter off temporarily so that we can take care of other matters. In the meantime, we may try to find a solution because it does not happen in this chamber, where the smaller parts talk to themselves, and the rest may not be seen much.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u191	Mr. President. I needed to be told three times that at a meeting of a president with a what? Population presidents would have had no discussion of any aspect of the Senate work ahead of them, i.e. Actually, the Senate work ahead of just a white sheet, the board would not have been reconnected, and it would have been completely uncertain. Although there is uncertainty about this matter, I thought that there would still be some question of the Senate work ahead, and I will probably have to be told three times that here I stand in the Pontta Allolis to make a comment because this is not discussed and finished where it is at home, which is, of course, at the highest levels. A president with a what? Class presidents. Of course, we shouldn't have to stand here and complain about it. That's totally ridiculous, Mr. President. But that's the way it is. I just couldn't believe my eyes when I realized it was like this, that organized committee meetings were not expected, despite the fact that they weren't trying to complete the Senate, despite the fact that it had been postponed into the future and no one knew anything about the box. I'll insist, Mr. President, that we get some frame and if we don't have to talk about it here, because that's totally ridiculous.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u192	Mr. President. I come up here again to encourage the highest. A president to take this matter off the agenda. It's kind of a nerdy record now. Last week the President's conference manager, this extremely successful meeting team, was called up for prime minister to come in here and tell us what was going on. I'm beginning to agree that we should bring him here to speak to the people in a way that is somehow different from that of always making mistakes. As I found out earlier today, he is the prime minister of the whole nation, he is, and he is to continue leading this nation. However, there are thousands of people in the East, and these are very serious conditions. We need to think that the nation's chief men are leading us along, but they do not divide us every time they open their mouths. I demand government officials to come and solve these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u193	V.E.G. President. I want to agree with them. Council members who have noted that it is unacceptable that no meeting table is being carried out by committees. Clearly, there are more blows. Senators, but the person here who is about to land in these days has to choose between committees to represent certain political parties. I, as the elected representative of a particular group of voters, have had to choose between meetings to attend. This is completely unacceptable, and I want to direct it to the highest level. The president that he will start a job to make some kind of table for us members of the council can assume that we are the wiser and planning of our time and attend all the meetings that we are elected to attend.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u194	A respectable president. When thousands of people gather in the East, up to seven years after the tragedy on this earth, there must be some message to the government's leadership that it is time to reexamine the course of affairs and their conduct. Here are yet protests that have lasted since the time of the end. 5 and I don't think that there is any doubt that the members of the House of Congress, along with the president, have to take the lead in breaking this situation and causing a report on the council program; that there will be some subject of interest here that will have to do with the community so that there will not be a breach between Congress and nation. For if there is a breach between the nation and its leadership, of course, one side must be replaced, and that is not the nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u195	V.E.G. President. It's five hours before nurses have a strike. There is a strike strike down to nearly eight weeks in various medical classes and within the medical system that have not yet fully recovered from medical trauma in the late autumn. When it comes to the health system, there is a serious situation. Although I will not belittle the seriousness of food production as food production breaks down or transports tourists, when the nation's health systems are under them, many would now remember that there is a reason to sit down and even talk and to wonder if the General will be able to do something to prevent serious health problems.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u196	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying that I don't make any comments to the President's conference board. I want to, however, because there have been comments on the program and called for the highest. Prime Minister, a reminder that he was here for the Evening Meal Unpreparably Asking Before Today, had an excellent, upbuilding conversation, including the need for action. paritaprevir Páll Árnason, and I would like to reiterate that in the discussions and fine reasonings that were carried out there, there was no such thing. It has been said that they were getting quite tired. Councilmen Jón Gunnarsson and Páll Pálsson They have been very active here in the discussion, and it would be refreshing if the program was to continue as it appears. Then they'd probably be here in a councilroom.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u197	Mr. President. I'd like to make a comment to the President's conference board. Is it true what I hear that members of Congress haven't sat down with a president to review the cases to be completed before a vacation? Is it true that a work plan has been removed before the weekend, and no one knows when to complete the work? This cannot be accomplished, and it cannot be concluded that this is the same matter scheduled day after day when everyone realizes that it will not go through with the controversial adjustments being made? Everyone knows, and I expect a president to make that clear, and that's why the President has to sit down with members of the council right away and review the case, how to land the critical issues in question.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u198	The president would like to inform us that it was earlier that the president will meet with members of the council at this time of dinner, which will be done at the end of the conference of the president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u199	V.E.G. President. I want to come back here again and again I want to go to the top. The president of the Generalis will end this discussion. I can totally agree that I was an adult earlier when I spoke of the highest. Prime Minister would make a mistake. [[Foreground on: No.]] It may be a big deal in the year, but his speech in the community, whether it is at the council hall, in the conference hall, or at the press conference, has done nothing at all to calm down the waves of the hall. [[Up front.]] Unfortunately, that seems like the way it is, which is very exhilarating. As I have said before, he is the prime minister of the whole country. He's supposed to talk to his people on that line. I think so, and he's supposed to take advantage of the Assembly Hall, but he also has very easy access to the media. In a society where all the fires are burning, unfortunately, and terrible strikes come upon them, I feel that the chief men of the nation who were elected to lead them should calm down the waves and speak directly to the hearts of the people. They were talking outside today, telling us what was wrong. Let's listen to these people. It's exactly the same with a frame plan. Let's listen to people east of the countryside who don't want their land activated.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u200	At a meeting of the councils held during a dinner break, the president reported his intention to postpone a discussion of the 3rd part of the program, to decommission it, and to take into account other cases that are expected to be on the program for this meeting, electrical laws, and government policies on the fixation of electrical lines. This is to try to pay for action and to understand what has been the most important subject of discussion and to try to find a solution to the matter. It is clear, though, that this matter has not vanished, that is, in fact, there. Tomorrow, however, the plan is to include in the program the issues that have been prepared from committees of the Council to Second and 3rd. or some other round. if you have a synonym. There is only one committee, plus two, three other cases, that will be back on the program. This means that the President expects there to be room here to work on a case that has been a stumbling block in the last few days and appeals to it. All members of Congress that we try to be careful with these matters so that we can get further along with that matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u201	A respectable president. I welcome this statement by the president and believe it is very sensible and can pay for any action. So we have been impressed that we are ready for a material discussion on the issues before the council and would like to apply it to the administrative point on the many issues facing. I'm glad we can do it alone. It's also true to the highest. The president says that the matter of the matter, the adjustment to the frame plan, is not going to leave us. It must be found in the language of a solution that is compatible with the success of a law on a frame plan, and we must set aside the next few days to discuss it with the board of directors.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u202	Mr. President. I'll take the hard word for it. paritaprevir Páll's son of Árnason and rejoice that the president of the council took note of the current lawsuit in this hall for the past few days and weeks and delayed a discussion on this matter. I hope that the future time will be used to consider all these issues in the larger context so that the council will not be put back in the dire situation it has been for the past few days and weeks.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u203	A respectable president. After a controversy over the past few days and many talks that I have expressed my dissatisfaction with the President's conference board, it is a great joy for me to come up now and say I am pleased with the decision of the president. I think it makes sense, and it's a good meeting board. Here we set aside the issue, so we find a more upbuilding way to go. In this decision, there is a great opportunity for all of us to improve the efforts we have made in the matter of convergence here. There are a number of issues we can discuss here and the probable number of cases coming from the government that are urgent. There's a fight in this country. We can discuss them and try to bring in an upbuilding solution to all of them. That good decision gives us great opportunity, even though the matter does not go away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u204	A respectable president. I'd like to join the above speakers and celebrate this conference administration very much. I'm very pleased with her, more dignified president. As a matter of fact, I hope and expect all of us to take advantage of this opportunity to look ahead with the attitude of trying to pay for the Senate and try to keep things in order. It will not affect the people mentioned here to discuss other matters and to participate in the treatment of other matters without allowing this to get in our way. I realize that the matter can come up again, but I'm really glad that there's a break in the discussion about it so that we can deal with other issues. I hope we all take advantage of this opportunity to try to let it affect our work as much as possible during this rest. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u205	V.E.G. President. Now I think it's normal after two weeks to come up here and thank the President very much for taking over the council. However, I would like to remind you that regardless of the meeting program, it will begin within four hours of a nurse's strike. I'm really worried about that situation, and it's so far away from me being alone. I think the people of the country are generally concerned about evolution. Tonight, a surgeon expressed a lot of anxiety on TV. I'm going to repeat my wishes to request a verbal report at the highest level. The prime minister of the job market will be set up tomorrow so that we can discuss in what way the Allied Council can do or what the government is planning to solve the serious crisis that has come up in the medical system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u206	Mr. President. I come up here to express my joy that there has been a measure of thawing in the council and that it was time to do so. I believe that it was the right decision to take this matter off schedule and to consider other matters that have been waiting for a very long time. Let us just hope that the employee who seems to be in a more positive and upbuilding position at the Council will continue to see a purpose in talking to each other and finding conclusions about difficult issues that we disagree on. I think we can do that, and we can take the big things waiting for the Senate to pay, before it's over and prioritize them and process them with the smaller parts. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u207	At the end of this discussion, the president wishes that he would, of course, as if others had made a successful decision, but reminds us, as he mentioned at the outset, that the cabin is not opened - the president is not counting on himself to say, "Yes, indeed, the hour in the ausa has come. ' Of course, we have a lot of work ahead of us, and this large issue of debate that has stained up the activities of the council over the last few days is not left. However, in the morning, the president believes that this is an indication that we are trying to get together in order to lighten up our propaganda.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u208	A respectable president. First, I want to state that I am not entirely satisfied that events are off schedule without being done. But I trust it will be so that it will be a great deal of peace but that the reconciliation will not be just the same. This is where I recommend a commission about bill change of electrical law, no. 65/2003, with a subsequent change (system plan), from a greater part of the employment committee. The committee has again discussed the matter after 2rd. to meet with Ingvi Monu Pálsson, from the Department of Employment and Development. The bill suggests that the transport company's system plan is given a clear set of laws, which consists of a long-term programme and, on the other hand, a implementation plan. A discussion of the case on the committee discussed the possibility that the council might have some way of molding a system plan. This is an important national program, and it can be considered reasonable that the presence of a democratic elected representative will be ensured. The majority point out that the bill is suggested at 22. The European Union's third energy directive will be introduced into Icelandic. It stipulates that the transport company should submit an annual system plan to be agreed with the current power market monitoring agency, here Energy Institute. The programme consists of the transport company's plans, based on projections for the development of electricity production, demand, etc. In other words, the directive does not conclude that there is a government plan or policy. Therefore, the majority do not agree with the above directive's requirement that a system plan such as this is subject to the approval of the Generals. It can also be noted that the Council is not an electronic monitor in the sense of electronic laws, as well as that it would hardly be possible for the Parliament to cover and agree to a system plan every year. The more part shows that in a parallel discussion of this bill, the Commission has had a suggestion for the treatment of a government resolution policy. In many ways, these matters are interconnected and involved in the transport systems of electricity. The majority suggest that the scope of this policy will be extended and addressed on the development of total electricity transport systems and that such government policies will be revised every four years. Thus, the majority suggest that the bill is added to the requirement that a minister submit to the General Assembly every four years a proposal for a resolution of government policies on the building of electrical transport systems. The motion would be first submitted only later than October 15, 2016, until then the government's policies on the fixation of electrical lines. Part of the policy will be the principles and criteria on land cables or air lines, as in existing Parliamentary resolutions, but also other general aspects of the transport systems of electricity and how it should be developed for a longer period of time. In this way, the Council can provide specific principles and guidelines that should be taken into account in the preparation of a system plan at any given time, as the bill determines that the transport company should take it into account. In this way it must be implemented by the Generals to shape a system plan, follow-up with its implementation and development insured. Then the more part points out that it has 39th. An electronic law is recommended to place a secretary every two years before the council a report on electrical products and to mention the factors involved in such a report. With the reference to the above, the majority suggest that the addition of the directive will be made to the new figure that the report should also specifically discuss the design of the transport system and the development of a system plan. According to the above, the arrival of the General Assembly to shape and create a system plan at any given time and the duty of a minister to inform the Council on their status in a regular manner. 3 mg. a-arms 2. The bill is instructed that the design of a system plan should be based on practical scenarios for the development of electricity production, electricity use, market development and electricity transport to other countries, as appropriate. It also explains the terms, scenarios, and forecasts used. Notes that refer to paragraph 22. The directive requiring that the transport company should be developed in a system plan makes a practical plan for the development of electricity production and electricity use and electricity transport to other countries. It will also be discussed in the so - called national networks that refer to the underlying institutions of the system design. Examples of the criteria mentioned in the comments are development programmes based on the types of contract agreements and activation options in the general protection and energy efficiency category, programmes for development based on energy forecasting and implementation programmes of major user development based on types of contracts. These statements to the bill in judgment that the basis for predicting the development of electricity production can be a supply and a waiting category of protection and energy efficiency programs, which say, frame plannings, as well as other factors. As a system plan includes a ten-year long-term schedule, it may be reasonable to look at activation options in a frame plan to have an idea of the development of supply and demand electricity for the next ten years. The majority of the rights are not fixed, though, that all products of the innovation category should automatically be expected to become activated, with less benefit to a waiting class. These are just judging points to consider. The more part feels that it is normal to look generally at the state of a frame plan, although it is difficult to see how energy forecasting could be performed for the next ten years without any general consideration. However, the more part feels that it is unfortunate to put in comments in the Senate document that are referred to as a cost to a supply and a waiting class and can be said that it does not contain a practical picture of a system plan based on the benefits of a waiting party. C- team 2. The bill is determined that the rural population should coordinate its strategy in agreement with the confirmatory 10-year system scheme as later as within four years of the agreed strategy. As shown in the opinion of a greater part of the employment committee at 2nd. comments on the matter have been made to this law, and more of the committee proposed a change that came to a degree to meet them. The law of No. 48/2011, for a national protection and energy efficiency programme, you can find comparable regulations where the government is authorized to postpone a decision on land use to a certain number of years. The majority suggest that rural communities be allowed to adjust their strategy and suggest that they add to the report a new case that a government will be permitted to postpone the decision of land use for projects in a confirmed ten-year strategy for up to eight years, with positive transmission of the shipping company. For example, if a specific procedure in the transport system is in a state of ideas in a confirmed ten - year system, then it can be said that there is no compelling need for rural management to change its organization within four years while it is still uncertain. Within eight years, however, this should be clear. The opposite is if the 3-year implementation programme is carried out. In such cases, it would not be acceptable that rural management would delay eight years in adapting its plans to the part of the strategy, thereby preventing the progress of the projects in the implementation programme. An examination of the bill presented the view that environmental protection is not being done sufficiently in the bill. The majority points out that 1st paragraph. An electronic layer is referred to a environmental point for the purpose of the law. With the bill, we do not move that article or any other branch than the system plans for the transport company. It can be noted that it is not the role of the Power Agency, for the removal of a system plan, to take a position on the possible environmental effects of action, or to set conditions thereon. Such projects are legal in the hands of other governments, e.g. The EEA and the Organization, as well as the need for a clear understanding between professional projects of the individual government. On the other hand, in terms of the environmental principle, the Convention's Recontraction Directive on government policy can be identified as a fixation of electrical lines with a view to environmental protection. If this bill is legal, the transport company should look to the policy it presents in building on the transport system. However, the majority suggest a minor change in the turnover of Article 1. The law to put a higher environmental point under the head. A-team 2. The bill is determined as to what is included in the system schedule, i.e. A ten-year long-term schedule and a three-year strategy, each based on etc. It also stipulates the transport company in preparing a system plan. This programme shall introduce the European Union of rural society, member of rural society and any rural society that may have to make changes in their strategy. The above ones have six weeks to send their comments. It is also recommended that the shipping company consult all other stakeholders. According to the final speech, 6 mg. a-arms 2. The bill should follow a system report on comments received by the transfer company during presentation time, as well as the company's responses and logical support for the final programme. The implementation of a system schedule requires more than the long-term plan for the accuracy of the information on the intended implementation. The transport company should submit and explain the identification of options and support the options selected. The option analysis of the transport company should be based on established international methodology, taking into account government policy on the structure of the transport system and the fixation of electrical lines. In other words, the company will not have self-opportunities about how to enter a system plan or how to use it. costs are evaluated when comparing exports. According to D- team 2. bill (9. g. d) Ministers are expected to set up a more precise Regulation, including how to determine the option analysis and the basis and methodology should be used. B-aide 2. the Agency may require, among other things, the management of the Agency for the implementation of a system plan. The energy agency complies with the bill to reject or accept a system plan. On this consideration, it is also assumed that consultations will be made with all the current and prospective customers of the shipping company. According to 1st mg. 30. g. Electromagnetic laws are decisions that concern the function of the transport company in terms of electricity judgment. The decision made by the Energy Agency to accept or reject the system programme of the transport company is a welcome administrative decision and, in line with 1. 30. g. The law. According to Article 30, it is possible to carry the ruling committee under the courts. Electrical layer. In order to eliminate all the conflicting factors on this point, the majority of the item contributes to the b-team 2.gr. should be specifically mentioned in front of the bill. In general, this trial procedure is in full agreement with the International Convention on the possibility of an independent and independent ruling decision to the courts. As mentioned earlier, the bill suggests that the 22nd floor. The third energy directive of the European Union will be introduced into electrical law. This is not the induction of the entire directive. The directive includes the requirement for increased independence of the Rapporteur, i.e. Power Management Agency. As is the case with the four Agency's personnel, this monitoring is being carried out, but under the regulations of the Power Institute, the Agency is subject to a minister. It was discussed that law changes are not required to fully implement the directive and that there are some options discussed to ensure the independent monitoring of the energy market, in line with the requirements of the directive. The majority stress that in induction of the third power directive, independence and neutrality of the energy monitoring agency will be ensured. Kristján L. Möller writes this in advance. In advance, Ólafsdóttir signed this opinion, pointing out that the bill had made a big change in a discussion on the committee that would have been consistent with the perspective of the minority. She expressed satisfaction and gratitude for the cooperation of the entire committee at that job. It would be clear to her that major decisions in the ensuing lines of an explosion line would always be made with the arrival of democratic elected agents at the General Assembly. In addition, the organizational capacity of rural society would have been increased below the head as well as by the overall vision of national planning policies. More important, environmental considerations would increase their place and would be effective. The majority suggest that the bill will be agreed with the above adjustments made in a special Senate document. Under the heading, President Jón Gunnarsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Þorsteinn Sæmundsson, Haraldur Benediktsson, Kristján L. Möller, in advance, Björt Ólafsdóttir, Þórunn the Egilsdóttir of Eglil, and who stands here, Páll Pálsson, a historian. If I cross the motion, it's like this: - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. Before 1st. A new article, as follows: Instead of number four. 1st par. The law comes two new numbers, as follows: 4. Support the use of renewable energy. 5. Consider environmental considerations. 2. Instead of the government policy on fixing the electrical line to a-a- team- 1. come: government policy on the building of electrical transport systems. 3. We're on 2. a. Instead of the words, "Come and see " at 4 mg. a-arms (9. g. a) appears and appears. b. With the B-jords (9. g. b) Adds a new paragraph, as follows: The decision made by the Power Agency on an approved or turned-in of a system plan is charged with the European Commission's decision on electronic energy, as per Article 30. c. After the 1st case. 1.mg. c-arms (9. g. c) brings up a new case, as follows: Aggressive management is permitted to postpone the decision of land use according to a system plan for up to eight years, as there are valid reasons and to have positive comments from the shipping company. 4. After 2nd. If you have two new articles, as follows: a. Why? g.) At 39th. The law adds new numbers, as follows: The estimated structure of electrical energy transport systems and the development of the transport company's system plans. b. Why? g.) After 39th. The law's coming up with a new article, Article 39. a, speaking as well as heading: Government policy on the building of the electrical transport system. Every four years, a minister proposes to the Council a resolution on government policy on the building of electricity transport systems. 5. There are provisional additions, as follows: Despite the requirements of Article 2. The transport company should take into account the government's correction policies on electricallination until the government's policy on the construction of the electrical transport system is adopted at the General Assembly. Suggestion for interpretation of the government's policy on the construction of electricity transport systems must be submitted to the General Assembly no later than October 15, 2016. So many were words.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u209	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's review of the committee's opinion of more things. I have two questions first. First of all, concern and concern have been involved in 2nd. on this issue to the transport company, i.e. Landsnet, would still have a superior position on the bill as well as on rural, landowners and other stakeholders alike. In fact, it was noted in the United States that the relationship seemed to be quite close to the organizational authority of the local community by assuming that decisions would be placed in an organization. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he considers that position of superiority to be a risk, since it really is contrary to the principles set out in organizational laws. Second, there is an example in the Commission's list of factors that can be based on a strategy for the development of electricity production and electricity use, as well as the electricity transport to other countries, which suggests that it has been assumed as a basis for judgment that there could be a novelity and a waiting party of protection and energy efficiency programmes. In the majority opinion, the problem is that it is not fixed that all products of the innovation class will be activated automatically, with less benefit to a waiting class. Wait a minute. A senator has to contend with the understanding of the greater part, as it may have meaning as a bill, if it becomes a law, what meaning it may have. The most part of the employment committee is in this opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u210	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer as well as thanking her for its part in these changes. I don't know any better than that, just in the discussion of the frame plan, there were times when this case was cited, where the majority of the parts met other viewpoints as much as we thought we could do. The community's organizational affairs are delicate, and with these changes, they try to break down, only to meet the communities, but all of us are aware of what the problem has been so far. The transport system has provided for cleaning in certain areas where the transport system may have been - well, is it not talking about 100 megawatts tolerated by the transport system? But it would have to be just twice if not three times that. I can't answer it any other way than we're trying to make a gap between us, but we thought that if we had gone much further, we might still be in the same situation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u211	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. Since the return of much of the employment committee to the Commission this winter as well as the development of a new arrangement, there have been a number of developments in this sector. First of all, Iceland's Supreme Court has issued a judgment, the EFTA Management Board has published its decision, and then a decision on environmental and resource issues has been made. These issues are all connected in one way or another with the opinion that the members of the Parliament discuss as we speak here tonight and especially whether the Landsnet can land on higher tensions of the law and without further interference by the Lawgiver. We are also referring to a crucial decision regarding an obligation to assess a ground - line decision, which, of course, should be very well understood. I want to ask you why. A senator whether he is concerned about the viewpoints presented and whether he and more of the employment committee sought this decision and the Supreme Court decision decisions, which can be said to be totally up to this bill and the Senate resolution proposal, directly dealing with the exact same issue. In the discussion of charges, the greater part of the decision was to suggest that the nuclear energy ruling committee be the person to whom opinions were directed. I want to ask you why. The senator's argument is that it is not rather suggested that the Committee of Environment and Resources handle these matters, as this committee is far more involved in organizational matters, the main concern of organizational matters rather than issues that are specifically dependent on electrical issues such as this. I'd like to hear it either way. A senator has some reasoning that would suggest this way rather than the other.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u212	A respectable president. I'll just admit that I haven't considered these judgments or those opinions. [[Up front.]] We've been very strict here, me and my friends, in solving others - I'm not saying anything more important than important things. But I don't suppose it's going to blow any of this bill. But whether the management board goes to this court or the other court, let me just be honest that I'm not as clear as why it's so but not gay. I'm just assuming that men are familiar with matters on this decision. Of course, it's all interconnected and intertwined, the environment and especially the electricity business and these lines. All the lines are about a bit of the environment, so I'm not the reason the other way is something better than this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u213	Mr. President. I had full notice of this bill when we discussed it with the 2nd. ... andI canbelievewhat. A pilot to the fact that my doubts are not cut off. On the other hand, he deserves my commendation and respect for his honesty. Hv. In effect, a senator said that it would be necessary to have this way so that a decision could be made to cross the country's countries, which basically object to the needs of the major industry. That's what they said. That's what I made comments to the 2nd. I admit that the bill has changed and improved, but basically it seems to me that the situation remains that the shipping company plans ten years of age, and if it is opposed to it, it will be able to postpone its agriculture to develop a projection program for eight years, but only if the shipping company, as I understood the case. Senator, it's a positive report. But what if the community doesn't want it? That's the Soviet spirit in this bill I gave you. It hasn't changed. The fundamental debate on this bill is how much power should be given to the transport company. I'm gonna take an example that I'm gonna ask for. A senator to answer, maybe I don't quite understand. Is this really true, if the government, the shipping company, wants to set a line over explosion land, and the rural areas on both sides are at hand, then the moving company is still in charge? Who has the authority to intervene? This is the main theme of the discussion we had for the last two weeks and we are starting tonight.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u214	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson for his question and his opinion. He is filled with doubt, which may be normal. Of course, men are skeptical, but we must trust someone. I don't want to agree with it with what. A senator tells us that we are caring for the needs of the big industry. It is old or gray that all lines are being cared for. It is full of SMEs. If we take Northland, the Eyjafjörður and that area, we have companies that don't get electricity. It is beginning to prevent development in the medium-sized regions just because an enterprise does not receive electricity. Of course, in the community it's a bit technical when a community should be able to deny completely. I'm asking why. In contrast, are we to have total interest in the entire country or to keep the interests of a community restricted? If the line has to go through a small rural society, and it says no and it prevents structure in the countryside next to it, then there's a rough one. So the senator will agree with that, shall we leave it at that? Or can he agree with me in that we are sacrificing less interests for more? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u215	Mr. President. Everything depends on the circumstances. Sometimes it is totally justified to sacrifice less interests for more. But we must always recognize what we are accepting and what that may involve. I'm of the opinion that the main interest in the current case, at least temporarily, let's be the same as here. It's the highlands. I don't think that the debate over the frame plan has stood primarily, at least not from my side, about the activations in the lower part of the Þjórður, but in the highlands, because it's about to begin a certain journey. What I'm wondering about this bill, though I'm not far from the attitude of the mind. The senator is the scene where people want to go into an explosion line, and they decide it without the discussion that I think the people need to go to the country about how they want to get close to the highlands. This is part of it. It may well be that after some discussion, the nation wants an explosion line, with a road over an explosion of ground. I doubt it. I think she's getting away from it. But the ideas have come out seriously, and for the first time in the last 25 years, a moving company is starting to talk about it as a close option. Then we have to talk about it. Then we must realize that it is possible that with this bill's approval, we're selling away all our weapons or from those who wanted to deny it. I can't see that once this bill is approved there's any way to stop it, even if the nation wants to. That's what I think we need to think about. That's what I and others rolled up on the 2nd. And now we're at the beginning of the 3rd. So it may not be much time. But this is the essence of a matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u216	A respectable president. I believe that an explosion line will never be performed except by the entrance of the council, because I... [[Take it up to 30% of the nation.]] Yes, it received a majority share in the last election, and it is the current election, so we are represented by the people until the next time, it will be. [[Up front.]] But I believe it. A senator, not to be taken to an explosion line except for the coming of the assembly, as this committee party is suggested. Of course, there are always doubts, but I can't help but rejoice at it. A senator admits that we have met him extensively. Though he may not have had all his wishes, we were eager to accept most of the views presented in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u217	Mr. President. It is good to remain in the discussions about the matter of Congress and to be on this matter, though there are, of course, much in common with the language we were discussing in the last days and weeks, i.e. how we walk about in our country and how we plan to build a transport system within the country to transport the electricity of our country and what tools we use to do so. I recommend my employment committee party and plan to review it at the outset. It reads: The smaller section considers the suggestions the greater part has suggested on the 3rd. the matter will improve and agree with many aspects of his committee. However, the smaller part counts as strengthening other factors and points out that a system plan is still under control very high. A review of the case in the Committee proposed a memory item to establish a transnational consultation field that would monitor the preparation and work of a system plan, at least the first. In such a situation, a plan could be tailored to a possible problem. The lesser part, for example, points out that in paragraph 5. track No. 74/2012, for hunting fees, is required to agree on fish fees made up of members of all groups, which discuss the proposed fishing fee decisions for special fishing costs. The majority failed to accept this suggestion and are less disappointed. The smaller portion also feels that the possibility of achieving a better approach to rural society has not been taken far enough. Their organizational authority is now under way to remain unchanged by law. Although changing the majority of the segments to allow rural governments to increase the time needed to coordinate their system plan to improve, the delay is expected to be dependent on the price of the transport company's approval. In effect, the transition does not involve options for a rural administration that is incompatible with land use within its rural society according to a system plan. The minority believes that the transport company still has too high a position on the bill, as well as on rural areas, landowners and other stakeholders. It would require more equality between transport interests and position and the environmental issues, the interests of rural society, landowners and others. The smaller portion feels sad that no further emphasis on environmental issues has been placed. In many cases, it has been observed that most tourists come to the land to enjoy unspoiled nature. Then it can be noted that for the Committee it was claimed that there was a lack of reference to travel on the bill. At that time, the minority is disappointed that there has been no discussion of a change in the proposal for government policy on fixing a line that has also been covered by the committee and is connected to this bill, the next issue on the program. A more detailed explanation for the memory of the part in his leading party is given to that matter. The minority also suggests that the decisions of the Power Agency are charged with the decision-making committee of environmental and resource matters, not with the EMP, as expected in the bill or any changes made. There's a reason why the bill is only enforcing 22. The third energy directive of the EU but not the total directive. Two. The bill recommends that a system plan should include practical visual images of electricity transport to other countries. The smaller section doesn't think it's time to legalize this situation and suggest that the reference to electricity transport to other countries be removed. I call this sentence to my attention. The minority is even more justified in waiting with the legalisation of this bill and agreed with a proposal for the government's fixation of electrical lines until the EU's third electricity directive has been adopted and introduced here on land, instead of initiating only and without involvement with other regulations of Article 22. The order, as presented here. Under this view, the writer of the above - mentioned publication, Lilja Sturdy Rafney Magnúsdóttir, is in a smaller part of the employment committee. It was noted in recent discussions that there have certainly been some adjustments in this matter, and we know that it was here for a discussion and was considered, and a good cooperation was achieved in making changes for the better. Although we left greens do not feel that it is too advanced, as the committee shows, we certainly do feel that it will improve, and we will use democracy to achieve and combine viewpoints and achieve coherences in that subject, and we will, although in smaller parts, are in the process of making changes. We represent a large group of people in the country who trust us to make changes for the better. Although we may not eventually be relying on the case to end, we have been able to influence the development of positive changes in our policy and viewpoints of those who have a strong impact on these matters, but nature protection and environmental principles have been clearly identified in this subject. There were a number of points that were certainly achieved in a change form, as mentioned, which enter a new form of change recommended by a greater part of the labour committee. I would like to mention, for example, that in section 5, environmental considerations are taken into account. We felt that they were being given too little consideration in the bill. Changes were also made to the rural areas where the government is permitted to postpone land use according to a system plan for up to eight years, as there are valid reasons and a positive application of the transporter. We find this step in the right direction, of course, but the need to be positive in the direction of the shipping company tells a certain story, that is because of taking into account the company's will, the community needs to enter a system plan after eight years, and if any change should occur, the moving company would have to agree to move to land. In addition, a change in the quality of the government's policy of electrical transport is indicated by a minister every four years suggesting a proposal for a judicial resolution on the construction of electricity policy, and then we receive this case at the General Assembly, such as the transport programme and the development programme and other such matters that are being discussed in a material way at the council. I think it is very important that the attendance of the council on this matter is clear and that in order to develop it has been discussed here with the possible development of an explosion line and a road over an explosion of which could then be concomitantly. Of course, there is a great section of pathology and strong criticism on the part of natureists and tourism and people in general, so that such a decision cannot be made without the help of the General Assembly. Also, in the development of the greater part, proposals for a government resolution on the structure of electricity transport systems should be proposed to the Council no later than October 15, 2016. It is good that there is no more than a year and a half, then we can be confident that people will not go out in making major decisions at that time but that the General Assembly will discuss what is at hand. We left green figures, as mentioned earlier in the Committee, that this bill is being legally legalized, and we reasoned on it in a number of ways. Then I would like to refer to what has been mentioned before, that recently the Supreme Court decision was issued by the President's permission to refer and review: The Supreme Court of May 13, 2015, trial No. 53/2015 dismissed the Court's rights to five decision-making bodies authorized by the Landsnet to take control of the market within the Vogga branch because of the construction and operation of Southnesjain 2 that has been taken into custody by the Minister's decision. Counted the Supreme Court in his judgment from May 13 on the last May that the legislation has broken off on the Committee of Transmissions in order to be granted authority and to take over the country's property committees. So the decision of the committee was canceled. In the case of justice, the 14th requirement was tested. track No. 11/1973 on the implementation of possession studies, but it appears to have interpreted differently. The judges discussed the different conditions of interest, one according to a Constitutional general interest that usually depends on long-term interest, but an assessment according to Article 14. The law, on the other hand, is only from viewpoints in which the interests of less time are involved. In the May 15th, U.S.A., U.S.A., U.S.A., U.S.A., a statement says that the judgment is a disappointment. Then in a statement by the president on the part of the company: Last year, when the project was scheduled to begin, a network requested this selection. In general, the Assessment Committee has provided a decision on large projects, such aslining high-voltage lines or road construction, without the completion of the evaluation process. This source is found in Article 14. No. 11/1973.How can I help you? Landsnet says: ▪ This conclusion is disappointing and is in reality not in line with the work of the Committee of Assessments. National Protection has discussed this decision and I agree with their opinion in the areas where they say it is necessary to identify the impact of the Supreme Court and the subject in the decision of the ESA Agency and, in particular, the importance of the landmark decision-making committees of the environmental and resource issues available in the existing bill and General Assembly Directive before further treatment is maintained at the General Assembly and their need. In the past, after this issue was settled to 3. Um, published EFTA decision published. That was May 6, 2015, and EFTA's decision is from March 25, 2015, and No. 65/15 COL on the electricity contract Land activation and Landsnet transport agreement with United Silicon, Helga. The decision states that the Landsnet places an estimated 13 pounds [132 kg] of earthline about six miles [9 km] to Helguvík. The decision suggests that the ground cord should be transported to the environment of silica, as well as other major users, and also the general population, since it will be related to the WS hosts. Now you might ask yourself, " Where did the Landsnet come from? Is there any authority to lay such a ground cord, if it were true that the company was not allowed to be a law of law, such as those who say that a change in electricity law and a sentence of electrical lines is needed to allow Landsnet to allow the correction of such high - tension cables. The reports in the decision show indicate that there may be a combination of cases that have been said to require legalization and political interpretations about the lines we deal with below, and there is reason to divulge what it involves. Agricultural protection concludes that it is right to submit every month, both this matter in the system plan and the following issue on the electro-lines, and to the Directorate-Environment and Transport Committee of the General Assembly to bring together a legal opinion on the above issues to determine the effects of the above decisions and the judgment on this matter. I think it's worth considering what this judgment and this opinion of the EFTA monitoring agency means and getting a good opinion about it. This matter does not run away from us, and it is important that we do well, and we do not get involved in something that will be restored to the council. Of course, from the beginning of this case, a warning message has been issued, even though we have been able to improve the situation. I think it's very good, but some cases are so big that sometimes they have to lie down and get better. People often talk about sleeping on something when they need to think about it, and I think this case is for the benefit of the case, and it continues to grow by considering what I considered in terms of the Supreme Court and the opinion of the Observation Institute of the EFTA. Commenting on this matter, there was a great deal of criticism from the European Union regarding their organizational authority and their full custody of organizational matters. I think it is very important for the development of rural affairs that they do not have the right, that they do not have planning, and that they are not being changed, or organized, with that strategy. There need to be some blockers. One of the things we gather here is that a decision can be made to the Environment Ministry. As a result of the adjustment made to the greater part of the workaholics, they discuss this as a case in case it's a case to the nuclear power authorities, the Power Commission's Committee. We want this to go to the Commission of Environment and Resources decision-making, not to the Committee on Electric Energy, as expected. National Protection has been the person who has taken that matter deeply, and we can thank you for having such members who are concerned with them and who are able to identify them and go deep into their stitches. Thanks to the fact that this is the place for a loyal guard to contact the natural world and how we are going to build up our transport systems around the country, whether we are going to destroy the highlands by linework, or whether we are going to build up the transport systems around the country, which are certainly bad in many parts of the earth. We all know and know that there are very poor areas, but there is no objection to developing the transport system itself, the ringline around the country. There's nothing against it. That's how it's strengthened so it can ensure the drop-down security of electricity, which is in many areas very bad, I don't talk about where I know how it works, on the West. There are many pots broken in these materials and would really have to spend money building up the transport system. This strategy is not to be approved. It does not interfere with the fact that the chapter can be addressed, since the weakest link is widely in our circle around the country. We know that the base line does not always provide the safety that humans want, and in many parts of the country it affects the quality of an enterprise. It has been said that there is not enough energy to be allowed to build on the melted or to build a fish factory on the northeast corner, and corrective correction on the transport system in that area is immediately possible to increase power delivery security. This is not something that stops it from making up so that it can build up companies growing on that corner of the country. And then we're facing it to make it in the West. I'm sorry. I'm not saying completely paralytic, but I'm in very bad conditions. People live by it, on the whole of the West, that even a small amount of the day can be electricity free of electricity, as happened last year, and a network relationship and another one is down. The task is sufficient, although it is not immediate to agree with this system plan, which I believe requires a much more careful attention based on the decisions that have been made and why we should have a better examination of experts and get legal opinion on the judgment and opinion of EFTA and that this should go to the Environment Committee and Business Committee, as mentioned earlier. National Protection says, by permission of presidents: The national legislation provides national authority to take full consideration of the environmental issues and directly obliges the company. Then it points to Article 1. The electricity layer to take into account the other aspects of the environment. It's at 73 st. The EEA Convention and the EEA Directive on both environmental and electronics and refer to Article 9. Current electronic laws, the Power Agency's permission to bind the permits conditions of environmental protection. In addition, regulations 1 mg. Count 9. Of course, an electronic layer, that the transport system should be properly built, does not exist as a barrier, and does not forbid any specific solutions. The essence of all the legislation on the EEA base is that environmental matters should be taken into consideration. I'm going to have it as my final statement in this committee party and a speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u218	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. The changes in the bill were massized during the activities of the Committee, which included a representative of the Bjart's future on a job committee who decided to include the majority of the members. The changes made first and last include the important aspects of the meeting's approach to programs designed to ensure that decision-making cannot be made in line lines, e.g. through an explosion line, without the introduction of democratic elected representatives at the council. This is an enormously important basis for future analyses, as well as for other changes made in this matter; specifically, this and the fact that some form of alternative analysis has to arise before continuing. I wanted to ask you what. A member of this particular point, whether or not she will view this as sufficient in a crash with the changes made. That's what I think is a bright future for and for us on the job board, but it's a point that I think it's okay with and that people are totally on the same page, everybody. You see, I think it's really amazing that we're discussing it in a way other than that it's probably something that people intend to keep Iceland's central highlands free of electricity and, at least, if such decisions are made, they're going to keep up with a very vast democratic agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u219	Mr. President. This was one of the subjects that discussed extensively, how they could be assured of the coming of the assembly. This was achieved with the acceptance of the council, and the council is about it. There was no default in the beginning. If the Landsnet were to be proposed to cross the blast land, for example, it would be done only with the coming of the assembly. That's exactly right, and that's one of the factors that I'm glad we're doing. But I don't think there's any safety in the way that case would end, that fight remains. This would be discussed by the Congress, but eventually it would be done in some way, and I don't think it would be clear if the council had any means to stop it. While this matter may be brought to the attention of the Senate, it is finally a greater part of the council that will result in the judicial resolution made by the Minister. It's like any other case, it ends with a vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u220	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's answers. I think it's important to learn that it is our assessment that such decisions, when it comes to fixing the telephone lines over the central area, have come into this council. Then the matter was also criticized when it came to the conference room for a discussion, that the arrival of a country partner had not been sufficiently secure, i.e. the need to increase the organizational authority of rural society, and much of it was met. Then it was also critical - I'm reviewing this - that in the next conference, which is a proposal for a hearing of government policy on correction, the environmental policies are being discussed, and when it came to the strategy we're discussing, that people were looking for environmental considerations. According to a panel resolution, which the government has proposed to fix an electrical line dealing with environmental policies, environmental policies have also been met, so environmental policies are being increased. In our opinion it's well, and that's why we've supported the majority opinion discussed here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u221	Mr. President. The environmental considerations were not put under the circumstances as they first came in. It's one of the things they put into the bill with a change in proposal, and it's fine. But, in our opinion, there are still some problems outside the recent judgment that we feel should be considered at the Supreme Court and the EFTA Court's opinion. One of the things we stressed was getting a meeting committee. We have a board of consultations on the fishing fees. Would it not be good for any of the members of the council to accept this case before entering the council? I think it might be much stronger and more powerful to do so, that we wouldn't be fighting here all the time at the council. In such a large case that survives many governments - this is for the long future - representatives from all classes should be allowed to enter some form of consultation committee that would be active and may have a beneficial effect. You would also be relieved of your work here at the General Assembly by presenting their views earlier at work and perhaps some adjustments immediately. There are many things that have been corrected, certainly. For example, there is travel, a lack of reference to travel in the bill. Travel is now the largest currency maker in the country. Why not take into account your country's tourism?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u222	A respectable president. I would like to comment on this, but I will not temporarily extend the discussion, so I intend to comment on this subject as well as on the matter that is next to the Council's decision to make policy recommendations in this regard. This case is a textbook's example of the importance of controversies and shows the results of what is sometimes called a thres during the council or a seminar. We had here 2nd. For a detailed discussion of the matter, it became clear that some of the factors involved a fundamental difference. We were concerned about the situation, as was the case from the administrative point to the second. it would be a vision of an enormous number of air lines. There was no restriction on what the Landsnet could lay in order for the development of the electricity system, and there was a tremendous risk that the system would be overcrowded, with consequences for the land's appearance. We also criticized the fact that there was being a huge transfer of power from rural communities to parties in a town that is undeniably evident, and we also criticized the fact that the Council is not to be represented, and there was no restrictions on what a country's network could do to make suggestions on. At the same time, this was related to the synonym that will be discussed in the following way in terms of setting support and criteria for the costs laid down when evaluating whether electrical lines should be placed on the ground or not. We feared that it would be limiting the potential for setting up as much of the electrical lines in the earth. In this case, as it has now become, significant changes have taken place. It is the result of a well - and - metabolic attitude toward government. That is not to say that we can change basically the way the administrative part looks at things or sets things up, but we can negotiate some adjustments and achieve a broad solidarity over the main lines. Of course, most of the parts eventually control and have the power to do so, but we've corrected a serious lure in this matter, made it acceptable. If the matter had been raised on our side of government, it would surely have looked differently. We in the United States have agreed on a national park policy in the middle of the highlands and such policies would surely be in the laws if they had come from our hand. But it is a big success if this is a way of agreeing on what the majority of the parts are writing, and that is why we take part in the payment of the majority of the committee that the Agency has been provided for the development of the system, has already been ensured, as we have seen, in a word exchange between this publication. Senators cannot build an explosion line without the presence of the Generals. In addition, rural communities have been assured of better care for their organizational authority. In addition, restrictions on the letters of the letter that previously served to ensure that all options for innovation and waiting classes should be basis for decisions on the size of the electrical transport system and emphasised in a committee's list in the manner in which the shipping company needs to consider different costs when assessing whether to use electrons in the ground or in the air lines. In the end, it is guaranteed that decisions are indictable and that this will be done in a way that a reference to the Worker's Convention will be able to resist the possibility of sufficiency of independent and independent decision decisions to the courts. All I want to do in relation to this is that the subject of the current national protection tips that we have recently proposed is that there is a Scriptural reason to pause in this matter, and in some ways I can agree with it. Land protection has brought us to our attention some new decisions; first, the decision-making committee on environmental and resource matters that makes the Landsnet interfere with the Agency's decision to evaluate the eco-evaluation of the earthline on objects that are part of the main network of the electricity system. Is it important to bear in mind that these policy measures are now in place and that, therefore, the reference to the costs will be given in the Senate resolutions discussed below will not be interpreted to mean that it involves a tribulation on this part of the shipping company. It is also worth considering that in deciding on EFTA from May 7 that the Landsnet will provide nine miles [9 km] of land to Helguvík's electronic contract between the European Commission and the Landsnet transport agreement with United Silicon in Helguvik. It is totally distracting from the claim that in many cases it has been heard that a special legal authority is needed to allow the Landsnet to lay a cord on the ground. I'll mention it here because the attitudes are changing while we're discussing these matters here at the conferences. The importance of walking well in the land, the valuable things hidden in the vast regions, and the loss of loss from day to day. When we experience such an explosion in travel services as we have done in recent years, it is inevitable that we will reevaluate the value in the vast area, and we will be happy to see that this recent decision by the decision of the Commission has been to add more responsibilities than has previously been done on Landsnet to assess a landline when planning for the whole transport network. I think that it should be our policy for each of us to be serious and that there is a particular reason for us to turn aside from the fact that they are considered as an alternative to the lines of the air in every case. Of course, such geological conditions may be enforcing such conditions as beautiful lava, which clearly shows that earthlines are more destructive than ceilings, but our general experience is that the ceiling lines are causing more damage to the environment. Therefore, I would like to emphasize that the case as it stands is positive. The worst bait that came up in the 2nd. The point. Of course, it would be different if we had the administrative part, but I like the results of a conversation and a discussion on this important subject, which includes guidance on other issues, structure, and other issues that are to be treated at the council. It is sometimes only good to settle matters and look to common conclusions.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u223	Mr. President. I thank you for getting the word a little too early, hoping that it won't be harmed for my inspiration to get there a little early. I would like to agree with what is stated in the Committee of the Committee for Directors of the Work. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Jr., signed, and she studied in her earlier talk that there are certainly the changes made on the bill so far, so to speak. I'd like to say, of course, that the debate at the council is important and comes to the day that it is certainly able to bring about some improvement in matters like this. Here are some proposed changes made by the majority of the sector's worksheets. One particular point that has been discussed is the attendance of the council, i.e. that it will be through a proposal for a resolution of government policy on the building of electricity transport systems to be introduced to the General Assembly no later than October 15, 2016. Other measures have been taken, and efforts are made to make the environment more intense, but I agree with it. paritaprevir The Lilja Electric Rafney of Magnúsdóttir, the daughter of Magnús, that it had the power to speak even more strongly as she did so well in her speech, the environment is the largest case when we discuss energy, as we deal with the transport system all over the country, and the environment must weigh immensely heavily on all decisions. Then there's the arrival of a local partner. Of course, it is sobering to consider that the changes in the case are not yet an option for rural governments that disagree with land use within their strategy. They are certainly given more time to adapt their organization to the decision of the shipping company, i.e. Landsnet. Of course, this is a development of rural planning. Now you can ask: Is the organizational authority of the holy brothers, but is there any other authority? At least to this point, it has been considered quite sacred in view of the law on the independence of rural society in the Constitution of the country. We must also ask ourselves: " How is this power being put on? What I'm most concerned about in all this is that democratic work is not enough in all this. Then I am witnessing the super-strong position of the shipping company, which will certainly have to take into account government policy on the construction of electrical systems, but can by this bill, if by law, make decisions contrary to local society's will and the community's involvement that the decision is uncertain, we can say, except through a discussion at the General of the Government's Guideline Policy. I was thinking about something in this relationship, but it's national pay, because it's one of the things we've been discussing quite a lot in this room, and it's related to a discussion that has taken place in the board of directors that now operates, about what such votes should be and how they should be handled. The general idea of national pay is that a certain section of the country can demand a vote on approved legal bills at the General Assembly, that is the traditional idea we have. It is the right of the court of the President of Iceland according to the current constitution, and most people have the idea that they are entitled to do so in one way or another, i.e. a part of the nation can demand a vote on these matters. But what if, in this case, a moving company wants to put a line over a blast land because it has already been brought up in speeches. Senators on this matter. There's no way our communities can stop it. They are on opposite sides, but at most they may be given time to adjust their organization. It may be discussed and discussed here by the General Assembly, but we also know that the terms and terms of the council have been quite controversial, just the last winter here at the General Assembly, and it is sufficient to remind us of the large and large debate on the value of Congress resolutions in connection with the European Union. There we have a legal opinion that exactly says Congress resolutions only have an X value, i.e. of limited value. Of course, we can see this in a transport program that has not yet been proposed, but today the government has announced that it has approved certain sums on a certain road project, although the council has never established a transport plan. I wondered if it's not necessary for us to provide some democratic approach to make up such a huge decision that we will likely be able to drive through such a synonym because it's a matter that concerns the entire population, the transport system of electrical energy, and what we're going to do with our country to transport energy between parts of the country. I especially wondered because these lines could be above the central area, the central highlands of over 60% of the country's population want peace and national parks. That means we're not going to put high-voltage lines on this same central highland. In all this discussion, I think we must realize that by agreeing with this bill we may create a system that is not sufficiently democratic, which is not responding to public standards of decision-making at all levels. The communities are losing considerable power to decide when it comes to planning. The democracy has been established in the General Assembly on the government policy on electrical cables, in the value of a synopsis that has been questioned by the council as a legal entity, and who should be the common people? We have no means now to demand a national payment, for example, of an approved synonym. In fact, I'm on the fact that such a law needs to come into a constitution, and not only about approved bodies, but also about administrative decisions, such as this, they don't have to be approved in Congress. I think it's hard, at least. Very difficult for me so I won't be able to accept the bill as it looks, while all these squares are neglected, because here we are talking about a bill. This is a typical case that may not be understood in the community as to what is precisely involved in a system plan. At times, there is talk of systems in social discussions, and we know that it means that you don't really understand what it's all about when you talk about them in a system language, and this bill is a good example of this. In fact, there is talk about a system plan, and no one understands what it means. However, the debate at the council led to positive changes, but we do not provide sufficient democratic access to all the points of the case in the agreed strategy. And I agree with what. paritaprevir The Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir that far too much power is placed in the hands of Landsnet, the shipping company, and the interests below are not just the energy transfers to the entire population - which are certainly important and as normal. paritaprevir This is where Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir pointed out in his speech; certainly, the foundation line needs to be examined, the circle in that topic and discussed - but when we consider the other interests beneath them, it's the central highland, the central highland that more than 60% of the country's population are about to be at peace and become a national park, and we don't do that by linework. My dear friend, who now lives in Norway, contacted me for this discussion and wondered if Thomsen's Grímur now turned to the grave, but he wrote the famous Song Of Explosives, which all nurserys learn to sing, and we sing, of course, since he says that it's not good to be on the way of leprechaun queens to the explosion, and a friend of mine said: "I think that Grímur Thomsen would return to his grave if he heard that the danger was that man would not be meeting an elf queen on an explosion, but would run on a high line. I think we need to realize that there's a pretty big deal here, Mr. President, a case that is subject not only to a system puncture but to the exact way we're going to handle the wealth we have in the middle of the country, the wealth more and more people are becoming aware of. It's not only economical, as it is, in fact, included in the ideal committee of my share on a professional committee, then. Magnúsdóttir It's not only an economic value but it's also valuable in itself because in Iceland we have a vast majority of Europe's largest, in the middle of the country. I've been saying that the highlands have been here much longer than we are, and hopefully it'll be much longer than we are, and it's how we deal with it while we're on this land. I listened to an interview the other day with a scholar who has been studying the psychological effects of the global community, so more and more people of the world live in a man - made environment, which is true throughout Europe. The human environment creates much more physical and psychological harassment than we can discern. This scholar, Páll Jakob Líndal, pointed out that the psychological effects of the highlands and beyonds were not really sufficiently examined. This is one of the factors I've been pointing to in the discussion we've had here during the past few days and weeks, that we are inclined to discuss matters from very narrow points of view. Sometimes I feel as if we politicians believe that we serve the economy primarily. In fact, the late Páll Skúlason pointed out that it may be the problem of Western politics that politicians always speak as ministers of the economy, forgetting other viewpoints, the spiritual views, and not even allowing themselves to be exposed, for they were sullied as emotional because they could not be measured in kroners and pennies. It is true that even when we discuss nature or culture, these pillars that build our own self - image as a nation, we may also set them up on a meter and a dollar, trying to earn the highlands by counting tourists, trying to earn the worth of culture by maping the economic effects of creative articles, but this is not so simple. And we politicians have to have the courage to discuss other viewpoints than just the economics. We must recognize that our role is important when it comes to protecting Iceland's unscrupulous regions. It is not only a economic perspective but the value of nature, but it can also include priceless spiritual riches to those to whom they are visiting, flee from the human environment, and move into the stillness of the desperate, more difficult times to find, the desperate ones. There may be two things that I think it's important for us to keep in mind before we agree with this bill or that more of the Allegment will deliver this bill. My mind doesn't stand for it, as I realized. It is first of all that democratic processes will be defined in a much clearer way so that the presence of the rural society will be ensured and that the general population of the country, i.e. The people who provide us here are the power to be here, the people we represent, get a much clearer access to this process from the beginning so that it will not be just some debate at the council and the interpretation of what values men question so much later. The other point is that when we discuss the lines of the line, it doesn't matter where they are, and then, of course, the central highlands are the most important thing, that we think of Gímí ThomsensGrímur Thomsens so that he won't go back in the grave when the fairy queen slips away from the top of the pen and we realize that there we have priceless riches that we have a great responsibility and that we need to show it that we are able to live under that responsibility. Mr. President. I'm not going to review the verdict mentioned here. Magnúsdóttir I don't have time for that, but I think the most important thing is to have a thorough opinion before they take over the bill. Although I reiterate the changes made are for improvement, I still don't think this bill is good enough for me to back it up. There, however, there is a lack of the democratic approach and protection of the highlands, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u224	Mr. President. We will take them back to discuss these two topics that were under discussion earlier in the winter and quite extensive. Happily, there was a chance that people would agree to interrupt their discussions about the Senate arrangement that is next on the program and wait for 3rd. about this bill to correct the conversion of electrical laws that take into account system plans and its products are several modifications and improvements in the case. I agree with what many have said, however, that this work was successful, and the situation changed in its own way and in its own way confirmed the need for more time and still needed in my opinion. Now, I'm very interested in the methodology set out here to meet some guidelines on how we're in the building of electricity transport and distribution systems, and there we have something to support. There is a general view in the community, I suppose, that it is of some value to reduce the greater interest of giant high-voltage cables, with the influence that they undeniably have, visually, and therefore, people have been very interested in getting more of the electrical distribution system on earth. Of course, technology and evolution have helped and contributed, as it has actually been true that several aspects of this structure are unnecessary, i.e. anything that turns to a low - volume distribution of electricity is automatically en route to the ground, with no one really considering a series of airliness around the countryside and regions of the country with associated disturbances and damage in the event of storms. But then there's a conflict over how the high-explosive transport system is treated itself, the main transport system. Similarly, they have been eager to see it, and they have always compared whether it is possible to carry it on the ground. In certain areas, regional evidence is very strong, such as near urban areas, virgin areas, or in areas where weather conditions or special logic are being recommended or when it is recommended. The unit has been making better out of preparation and decision making on these topics, and I think we can expect this to be in the right direction, but it also takes a good job like this to be done on the move. Our main criticism, still having doubts about this matter, is that a system plan remains very high below its head, and the game may not be equal when it comes to both preparing and making decisions on these topics, since it would be primarily in the hands of the Landsnet and the Power Institute to solve them matters and a great amount of power in their hands. It is all good to say that in preparing such a process, there is a view that and a promise that we will find it beautiful to consult. But the question is finally about where the power is when making decisions, what is being done with other viewpoints, whether it is from an environmental organization, from a rural society, from landowners, or other such sources, must be taken care of that information, and I don't think that it is done to a sufficient degree so far. The status of the Transferr and the status of the System Programme will be very strong to other views as indicated by the development of a strategy adopted by the Power Institute. It must also be remembered that the permit unit is in a different way. There have been many ways to deal with such issues, such as whether an independent judicial committee, some kind of judicial decision, should eventually be made to settle and resolve differences when they arise and will not be agreed. It has also been suggested that, according to this, particularly during the preparatory period of the first system, which, of course, becomes very policy, I do not speak of its ten years, should it be under the name of it, where the big lines of plans for the future transport system development would be proposed, that they would be active at some kind of cross-cut or cross-cutter consultation site that could monitor preparation, establish indications, make sure that all views would receive a reasonable coverage in the process, and would be tried to ensure an equal approach with stakes. Sadly, people have not even agreed to this. After the original ideas that the strategy could simply be confirmed by the General as a policy plan or other such were set in the cow, men are mainly technically convinced that I think, but I don't think that there should ever be a need to get in the way of men if the Council itself wants to fully bless the larger projections of this kind, there must be a way that it can be possible, but good and good. If you do not want to take that route as in a transport plan or a health plan or anything else, there would have been a great improvement in the fact that some of such opportunities would have been in place, monitored and monitored, and had access to all the work done on the preparation of the first major scheme. I haven't really had any good reasons why it shouldn't be behaved like this. That's what I have to say. There, I don't think that it was totally produced by some reason why such a thing could not have become a reality that we would have worked very hard on. There are also indications that, despite all of this, it may be wise to slow down in these materials even if only to wait for the third electrical directive to be introduced here into the induction process. Not so, but to glean from it only one branch. Also, recent judgments and decisions that are very interesting have been made, which time does not allow deep down. For example, it is clear that, today, the Supreme Court, the environmental assessment law, makes them in their own strength to compare the possibilities of earthlines with the airlines. And the importance of Congress resolution can be considered as saying something about some reference factor, 1:1.5 or 1:2 in terms of an interpretation of the laws on environmental impact, which merely makes the point, according to the judgment on the base, or the transport system from the River Valley. There are things that would have been good if time were given to meditate and study. It is extremely important in this regard to problems and even controversial matters that can be successful at the beginning when people are trying to reroute their affairs to reduce the likelihood that every joke will get into a lot of nonsense and lawsuits and lawsuits, etc. Of course, the conclusion on Southnes Line 2 is that property studies are then reversed. To be honest, I did not say anything particularly surprising, for one reason we felt that there was something missing in the time for the company to bring bet listf to the Ministry and ask for a possession course when even some landowners had been talked to and tried to negotiate the matter. Perhaps the right development is to tell us in these things, these two cases, that the Supreme Court is taking more space to interpret the problem of nature or landowners, and the overwhelming power of the shipping company, or the one who once gave up the law itself and got what they wanted, ordered them to take some form of possession that they thought they needed, that it is time and that it is well. This would be in line with the spirit and development of the environmental rights in other areas. But the most serious concerns I have are tied to the plans for building a high-voltage line across the central highlands. This does not mean that I am minimizing the differences in individual areas, e.g. about the brooks of Akureyri, or in the valley of Hörgár, the valley of Oxnath, and Skavevegur, on a line from reconstituted to Akureyri. But it is, of course, so enormous in my mind if there are actual plans to set off with an enormous, at least 220 kiloline of north over a explosionand, even with the possibility of raising the tension and making it even more powerful, which I know is that the window in the background of our friends in Landsnet, they are quite ready to be so big a mind to think that it even needs to screw it up and make it even more awesome, and if the line is designed compared to that, it's still bigger and more obvious. It's a vision that I just can't imagine. I do not sleep at the thought of wandering in the middle of the country, walking under a high - power line that would have no way of hiding in relatively flat areas when north of the New Valley and north of the Explosive Land, they would be visible from all the glaciers, Lake Sevenlands Park, the peaceland in the Red Sea, etc. It's such a fateful and large decision that I'm afraid that it is in the phase and at the place it is exactly now, that it does not mean to talk about it as it is, that the Landsnet is obviously trying to get off with the environmental assessment of this project, drew the road with itself at first, while the Vega type deserves to be commended for her backing out of it, packed up and left out, and finished, the built road over an explosion landnet not high in its priorities, and continues to remain stubbornly in its preparation for environmental assessment. I don't think it's an acceptable thing to do. Many things are missing, these laws are missing, and this frame is missing, with the need to establish national planning policies for the central highlands instead of the old highland regional organization, which, of course, is dislodged and to the skin. I believe, in effect, that the 5th number of changes made by the majority of the Committee requiring the proposal for a resolution of government policy on the building of electricity transport systems should be submitted to the General Assembly no later than 15 October 2016, set a reference point in these topics. Is it not to say that until that proposal for future policy has come and that the General has discussed it, should not continue with large, dramatic decisions of the sort that prepare for an explosion line? It's totally incompetent. Everything's kind of missing. It's all upset that this is gonna happen. The national organization has not been established, this legal structure has not been established, the new protection laws have not been established, although much in the long run, and since then the Council has not obtained the results of the work to be set up here, which is the first strategy for the long term, and the interpretation of government policy based on the ground being set up here. Then we'll probably be in all other options to sit over and look at it. Is there a need? Is defending and justified, and from what interests, then, to place the central highlands under a high-voltage line? This, of course, is a vertical opposition, such as that of traveling overseers today. It is united, and all opposed to carrying such construction through the heart of the central highlands, the heart of the country. I find it quite remarkable how late it really is to get men to give it ears when the largest and most growing industry in the country that now earns the most currency, and that much more so, speaks in that way. Why, then, should its interests not be put on the list as closely as its national importance calls for? Why is it that there is more to the interests of energy-rich industry in the country that should be the priority when the decision is made that energy - consuming industry contributes less than one third of the currency paid for today's travel service is due to be less than one third left against the tourism service when that account is reviewed? A respectable president. As I have known, there is considerable doubt in this matter that it has only improved and will not support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u225	Mr. President. I'd like to throw two questions to the ground. Senator. The first has to do with the right to own. Counts 'em out. A senator who was here discussing the evolution process properly as to the fact that it is, in effect, justified in enforcing a land of possession in order to fulfill a contract that is open to two family members on the market? I have many doubts about it, and I've been discussing it in these last days and in my opinion if the highest. A minister of education still feels the same way he was in his first speech at the General of 2007. This is the first question. The second question concerns the middle of the country. I believe that the lines of nature protection are not in the lower part of the Year but at the edge of the highland, as I explained in the last days my doubts about the Cradle and other things. Because of these speculations. I have to say that there are many things that are drawing up so that it's reality. I don't share in Landsnet's concern about it, but it's about making a democratic decision, and people have to find out in some way. My question to why. The senator is this: Do you think he may be living in a situation that has the potential line layers across the high country with special regulations in this bill that would ensure that such a decision will always be made in a special way to bring General Assembly?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u226	Mr. President. As for the first point of my possession, I haven't had time to read all the swaddling around it, but I think it means that a few of the cases that have just recently come up with a more demanding argument about the rich public interests, that it will no longer work, whether the Roadmaker or the Landsnet, to say, "We're going to build a road/line here." There must be a basis for this and to argue that there are so many public interests that the rightness of possession is justified. Second, it must be shown in black and white that all negotiations have been tested. You just have to be clear about it. It doesn't mean for humans to hold one fruitless meeting and then walk up to the Ministry and demand possession. That's a long time ago. Now some have to show that they have made human offers, that they have tried, and that they have made reconciliations, even by means of a foreign source. Yes and no on the front lines of nature protection in the country, you are in the middle of the highlands and all the large areas of the highland bridge because there will be such an overexcited breakthrough in Iceland if major mobilizations were allowed into that area. Sadly, though in the old area of the central highlands, so - called man - made gardeners were expected through the central highland, it was a primitive thought, in effect, to be out of the motion of a better - looking rural organization. It's much better than the lines set by the region of the highlands, which is already on our tables here in the form of a proposal for land planning. I don't minimize local disputes about things like the activations in the lower part of Turbulence and personally I'm just as vicious in this matter as it is in the middle of the highlands. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u227	Mr. President. I know that now. A senator is vicious in all the matters he is opposed to. For the possession of it, I think, as it were. Senator, that there has to be a lot of public interest to do that. For example, they may be if there was a lack of energy. Then they must bite their apples. I may find that hard to put into words, but I find it very hard to approach this matter in a reasonable way, when there are conflicts between natureists and Neonates, and take possession of property to meet a contract between energy producer and energy buyers, i.e. there's no way of getting involved with the big business, and there's no way for the conservationists or the organization to get on the case unless they were willing to buy the price of the country. I feel that they should at least stand up in some way as far as they can afford to do so. This may be a thought that has its origin among vacationists, former president of Iceland's Police Association. [[Up front.]] This is the view that I feel should include both discussion on this bill and the box. Time meet, let's say. A senator, if he's going to engage in human activities in the highlands. It is not a major milestone, so we were putting aside a synopsis proposal that directly takes the first step. It is suggested in the same time as it is seriously discussed by people to cross explosions in this way. That discussion has not occurred among the people. So I say that the bill that's being agreed to doesn't prevent it, neither by the changes that took place. paritaprevir Páll J. Pálsson's work is here tonight.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u228	Mr. President. No, that's the problem. I'll answer that question from before, in the past, answer the question. A senator, quite conclusive: I would take it very seriously if somehow it were decided that in the interaction situation in which we really are in the hands now, and then perhaps until 2016, there would be no further decisions and no further preparation would be prepared under lineworks in the middle of the country. I would do much with it, I'd be so calm. I know there can still be conflict, e.g. a specific chapter on the framing circle, etc., but it's a little different than this huge decision in the middle of the country. For possession, it would be an informative discussion and a better reading would be a pleasure to consider it. Is that becoming a certain court development? I thought it would be good because it could no longer be said, and it could never be possible to get electricity from one seller to another buyer in a place just because they want it. What about the nation? The public interests of the nations and what is good for the public, not something that some think is highly clever for them, that is the difference. Regarding the land and the possibility of buying it from owners to others, for peace, or for something similar, instead of having it run out of lines, that is an interesting thought. I always try to remember the ancient meaning of my geology, the Sigurður of Þórarinsson's vow, when he wrote in the old days when he compiled his great literature on falls in Iceland and looked to some extent in order for many to see them as an passion for electricity production. Certainly he acknowledged it. He arranged many of these beautiful waterfalls into a series of vitals. The first attempt to create a frame plan was, in effect, when the Þórarinsson organized the falls from his own values and asked the longest words at the end to bear in mind that it was more valuable than kilowatt hours, e.g. Funtime. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u229	Mr. President. I hereby recommend an extension party with a motion to be turned into a hearing on government policy for fixing electrical lines. The minority points out that the greater part has proposed several changes in the bill to correct the conversion of electricity laws, that is, the case we were discussing a system programme earlier for 3. Environment, which has been discussed in the Committee under discussion with this issue. However, the majority do not intend to suggest any further changes in this proposal and consider the smaller part to be a failure. The smaller portion suggests some changes in the proposal, including that the principle must be determined each time whether an air line or a ground cable is to be used in the main electrical transport system. So there is no principle, as is expected in the suggestion. At this time, the smaller item suggests changes in the use of environmental protection sites with the aim of increasing the possibility of a ground cord being selected in the development of electrical transport systems. These changes are related to the way the region is defined and to the fact that the perimeters around national parks and a peaceful region should also be viewed. This would result in an increase in the protection of the entire environment of nature protection areas and a decrease in visual pollution caused by atmospheric lines. The suggestion for the memory of the part means that instead of referring to the 53rd paragraph. nature protection laws and national parks and reservations will be referred to in Article 50. Natural protection laws, underneath which fall national parks, reservations, land-infested nature, peaceful organisms, habitats, and. and people's problems. At the same time, the smaller item proposes that when compared with the cost rate of three-fold instead of the 1.5 per proposal, the majority of the item has proposed a double share of the share. It is also suggested that, in specific cases, the maximum cost ratio may be higher. It then suggests that the smaller item will be taken into account by the new protection laws obtained on July 1. The smaller section suggests that the proposal will be agreed with the following modification: 1st In place of the figure, sections 1.2 and 2. section 1.3 arrives: three times. 2. To chapter 1. a. 1.mg. put it this way: The main transport systems of electricity should be individually evaluated for the possibility of using an air line or a ground line on the corresponding line or its respective sections, with the following criteria justifying an animal option: 1st If the line path is within the defined urban area, as defined by Article 2. " God Is With All Things, " No. 123/2010. 2. If there is a line course within areas where there are non-violent nature mines at a temperature of 50. track No. 44/1999, on nature protection. 3. If there's a line route to an airport that shows that airlines can affect flight security. b. After Two. 2 mg. If there is a new problem, as follows: In certain cases, the maximum cost ratio can be removed. c. Endnote 2 mg. ... goout. d. and we add a new paragraph, as follows: For line-wise selection, special attention should be given to the peripheral areas of the peace-engineered region, as measured by Figure 2. 1.mg. This section. 3. In addition, a new chapter, Retrospective of policy, is as follows: The General concluded that there will be a review of nature protection laws and that this passage will follow when it is completed. Thus, the definitions of new laws will influence policy, such as in nature protection areas and uninhabited habitats. Under this suggestion, the writer of the statement, Lilja Rafney Magnney Magnúsdóttir. As mentioned in the discussion, however, there were several changes in the system plan, but in this case, No. 321, for the correction of an electrical line, there are very little changes, and for the left green, we were unable to agree that no more items would be taken, as we've been presented in our committee party, and I've been aware of the change in proposals that come with the leading opinion. Comments on the land cables and costs were met and told that they would be twice as expensive instead of 1.5 times as much expensive, making changes in the greater part of the report on the cost of construction. Of course, it is very important that earth cables, which are widely replaced by airlines, and I think the future is to try to put them on ceilings, that some specific chapter can not be taken and compared to the airline, must also be looked for longer distances in those materials, and that some specific chapter would be compared to an even longer line and that it would be at the high price of laying a cord on the ground. I think the importance of it will become more and more in the future when we build a powerful tourist service. Of course, the public wants to enjoy nature on a global scale, either in the high country or elsewhere, and that, of course, is a huge sight pollution from air lines that we are supposed to do all to minimize. Although air lines cannot be avoided, they can be very limited. I'd just like to end up killing down in a good article or a summary of what the governor of the United States has sent away. He's talking about huge air lines. Are they the future? It says, by permission of the president: In the bill of the conversion of electricity laws, it is expected that when Landsnet calculates the need for new electrical lines in its system programme, the enterprise can compare with energy transfer from all activating ideas in the energy efficiency and waiting category of the framework. This would translate into huge, gigantic air lines all over the country, such as us. I've heard of the Hellish Dare and from the River Valley Station down to Flavour Flavour. Since energy generation does not correspond to the decision to activate, much less a waiting party, this law would legally establish that the Landsnet is unrealistic or false to its plans. This cannot be done. Furthermore, Ingi In Guðbrandsson, director of the Land Protector, in this article, says by permission of a president: ▪ Is there no electrical lines in the earth? The motion minister is going to proceed with an electrical fixation policy. Despite the advantage of more than air lines, a ground cord is set out in a set of criteria. But these standards do not even reach all the environments of nature and, amazing but true, not far from, just because the visual effects of the atmosphere are very negative. On top of the above, cost differences cannot exceed a specific roof to allow the criteria to be applicable, except for individual landmaking. As a result, construction of large 220 kV land cables in Iceland is in effect excluded, but Landsnet policy is building the main transport system at 220 kV. Thus, a land net would have a free airline game for forests all over the country, including explosion, in Skavegur, Oxnadal, on the Smokey Peninsula, and elsewhere. I think we should keep those words in mind during the discussion. Of course, we are not supposed to allow a line of air to be restored in the consecration areas surrounding national parks, e.g. In tundra on national parks, such as Lakejorn and in other places. This cannot happen at all. I'll call this good and finish my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u230	A respectable president. We're here to discuss a contingency proposal on government policy on the fixation of electrical lines. As mentioned in a committee list. paritaprevir The Lilja Rafney Islands Magnúsdóttir and I make a few adjustments at a convention of the green a few material comments to the subject, and we increase in intensity. A senator noted earlier, perhaps focusing primarily on the position of the electrical line to the mines of nature, peaceful areas, and the highlands of Iceland. I was disappointed in the treatment of the situation earlier in the winter when men could not agree to rely on the perspective of strengthening the state of nature protection and the peace-lit areas in the line layers and in the absence of any guidelines for protection across the region, i.e. But we all agree on, I think I'm, I haven't heard anyone who doesn't agree that the influence of masts and ceilings is very large in the universe. That's why you had some thinking about it, but let's not rule out the making of adjustments. paritaprevir According to Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, in view of the fact that the matter has had quite a successful period of fermentation, as it were, during the council and had extensive coverage and, in particular, the views on the interaction of linework and global protection areas. The suggestion is to establish a ground - to - ground reference, although they may gain more than atmospheric lines, which, as noted, do not reach regions that are peace-informed and even those which are already at peace with nature protection laws. We can mention the peaceful lands of many parts of the country, areas that are protected by high protection, but they are not protected from this approach. In addition, the costs between the earth's line and the airline are expected not to cross a fixed roof so that the criteria apply except for individual types of land, and may be asked whether they are actually not actually giving Landsnet free cards for all parts of the country, including explosions and in Skafurtirs, Oxnadal, Rhinescana and elsewhere in sensitive areas. What may be over and around this matter is that landnet's power is increased so much and because these issues are quite intertwined, i.e. The bill and then the synopsis proposal, the most human concern in natureists, both the Land Protection and the Natural Protection Agency of Iceland, and the rest of the people who have been looking at these issues, is that Landsnet's power is so much more important in this matter and therefore a decision-making agency is taking away the democratic power. Then I'm not only talking about local governments but also the Generals. It makes the situation somewhat inaccessible for us in the left movement a ◯ green supply because we have always put our emphasis on the fact that we have the ability to make these policies in the legislation of environmental protection, which is involved in bringing power at every step closer to the public, ensures that the heart of the raisin agreements is responsible for making decisions, in order to make decisions, to reason, and to the leading decision of the public and partners, the grass subversive movement so easily accessible at all levels that the public will have the advantage of decision-making. In this way we minimize the risk of making bad decisions, as it were. That brings us to other factors. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir spoke in his talk, which discusses the importance of this subject when we consider laws that have to do with country disposition and organization and nature protection, etc. For the long future, all legal instruments and regulations are guaranteed, as far as anyone's concerned, that the legal equipment will survive elections and new elections, that we will go to work. This is a claim to the greater part of the council, that we will work in advance to ensure where possible a solidarity in the council on such matters. Unfortunately, it has been a table for this case, so it was in the Senate resolution proposal, which is intended for a discussion but no less in the bill discussed earlier, so that it was not until the matter was thoroughly discussed at the council that the more part took the matter to heart and made some adjustments, which may not be sufficiently significant to avoid the dangers I have already considered in my consideration here. I asked why. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson earlier this evening, when he gave a commission on the bill, whether he as the head of this case or more part of the employment committee had examined the recent decision of the Supreme Court or the EFTA Commission, and most notably the decision of the Environment and Resource Commission on matters related in various ways to the matters discussed by the Parliament and was intended to solve. Hv. A senator gave a very honest answer that he had not examined that matter specifically, and that is, I must say, a great concern because the points presented in these matters and particularly in the court of the Supreme Court have come to light, which is, in fact, the existing bill and the Senate resolution proposals have come to light, and it is true that we act and get an diagnosis. I'd like to see if we could get an analysis of the effects of these decisions and judgment with some sort of legal entity, where it would be carried out by an existing bill and a political arrangement. Now that we are here in the second half of this discussion, we are certain that the discussion will not be much deeper or that there will be other viewpoints. At least I can see why. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson is in the hall, as it were. Egilsdóttir And I expect them to listen when I describe my concerns because I am not talking about one particular judgment or one of the opinions or speculations of the House. I expect them to listen to me when I state my concerns because I'm not talking about one particular judgment or one of the speculations, but about the fact that it's coming up here in a few of the cases, some of these decisions, which completely agree with the conferences that are under consideration, overlap with their coverage, possibly affecting the natural and successful outcome of their seminars. Hv. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir did well with the changes in my work committee, which may not be a reason to discuss or to pause. But I would like to say in general that a man is concerned about this release, as it were, with such large decisions to the Landsnet of public property, which is, in fact, far-funded to the public but will be carried out by government agencies. Government review announced last year's anniversary that the Landsnet was one of the public companies that should be handled in a special administrative capacity in the current year, and this is a subject. This is because the Landsnet has not provided the required analysis, as far as I can achieve, and the implementation of environmental impact assessments have shown that the shipping company views environmental impacts as almost a formal but not as the process to ensure consultation with the public from early stages in order to find out as best and more successful as a result, but not to find some sort of agreement with the local community, such as on negotiations, much rather ensure environmental assessment with safe and clearness of the public at all levels. A respectable president. This is a concern, because the members of Congress that are being discussed are moving the Landsnet to an enormously larger power, and though many of these factors have been added somewhat in the case of the council, it is still quite determined. I believe that the changes recommended are absolutely minimal to ensure that the case is settled, as it were, especially against nature protection and the globalities, but otherwise I don't see that a council of the left green can support the case as it is suggested.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-26-112.u231	Mr. President. I won't extend this discussion much, but I'd like to agree at first and discuss only the adjustment proposals as a smaller part of the employment committee, anyway. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, reporting. In fact, it is a little sad that a contract was not to be passed on to the employment board on the fixation of this synonym, i.e. After the discussion was stopped, she returned to the committee, in the spirit described there. I say for my part that if this were done, I'd be pretty comfortable with it. If that is the case, the decision is not profound. If there were to be no more than this, evaluating the main transport system under this discussion, this would always be measured and there wouldn't be any reference to any of the materials, at least In advance, there was a comparison to whether it was possible and justified in using a ground cable on that line or any chapters on a longer route, compared with air lines. There would be a set of standards that would guide a person's being justified in making an animal choice. It is specified here if these are urban, non-violent natural areas, or areas, and then near airports, etc. Special cases of this type may justify stepping aside the criteria for maximum cost ratios. I made a subject of my previous siege. this case, I also believe, is a great weakness, which is the approach of national parks and nonviolent regions to a certain extent to have a special place in these materials, that the word is that it is based on going through the national parks or on the peace-lit territory, which can be balanced in a way that though the giant high - tension line of the strand park is just 50 m outside them it is all right, it is no longer within the national park. Of course, all humans see no approach to any of the standards that humans today have in these respects. The person mentioned here had something to prepare for the establishment of a Lake Earth park and was made up of the government committee, traveled all over the region, and met with them on the United States. We ran back and forth on it, including When we considered the terms of terms given to the international conventions in these topics, it is generally approached by people as a national park or as a nonviolent territory with different levels of protection and a set of sacred areas, so that perhaps a five - mile [5 km] belt on the outside of a national park is limited by its impact on the park, if anything could be done there. It's missing here. That's why the D- team 2 is a very important change in the model. I miss the fact that there was no success in these matters. A greater proportion of these proposals were offered in their committee's party but chose not to give up the leading committee party despite further work on the case and to carry no further adjustment proposals. It only changes that, instead of the cost target, one - and - a - half target is compared to the ground cables and air lines that are to be eliminated from these proportions, one is to two, i.e. Double cost. At the same time, the words and cost of operating over the monument's lifetime fall away. The question is, Although it seems that the cost may be up to twice as high, is that an improvement from taking into account the cost of living over the construction's lifetime? Now I think most people would agree that the earth string has the prize, but the comparison may not be much more favorable to it, even though it is a double cost to one and a half before. This is not the only problem with putting a head above such criteria. The question is, How does the comparison work out, and what comparison is made? What I've been able to observe this job, including several meetings at a professional committee that I was serving as an assistant, I never got any answers to which methodology should be exactly compared. It is enough to make a simple example of that there is sky and sea between comparing the cost to a land cable in some particular section of line lines a mile away from a distance of airline or saying: we have a long - distance experiment, e.g. all the way from the carburettor to the River Valley or from the carburetor to the River Valley, this is a huge figure carried out at billions and billions - what makes the total cost of the project much greater than 10 or 20 miles [10 or 20 km] on earth? Are we going to compare them with 10 miles [10 km], a mile [6 km], a ground cable against a ceiling line, or we're going to say: "Here we are comparing a certain piece, and what will be the additional cost of taking it to earth if we look at the rest of the building and the cost? I've never been told how this is going to be achieved. I have reason to believe that Landsnet will be able to think that this comparison would always be a mile more than a mile. Your foot will gain weight, e.g. if you cannot take the line to the ground somewhere above and west of Akureyri, past the town and across the island floor and up under the Bild-City Pass. That would change the attitudes in that area toward them. If it's part of the implementation of this project, the building of the line from the blending line to the Crimea, the Eyjafjörður and the partisans, and the land of dominance, then it would probably make a difference. It's a great weakness, Mr. President, which I resent being left somehow in these areas. Because people want to go as far as the other part wants to go, they're putting in some of the costs that can be considered endless debates about where to go, I feel that there's no other way to explain the matter. How should they be used? How should the comparison be conducted? Then, too, people wonder what evidence is available. Will humans remain fully dependent on data and information from someone whose language is not neutral, the transport company itself? Is it possible to get any independents in there? Will anyone be willing to purchase independent expert advice? Does anyone like that make a distribution? You turn to Power Institute. She has a role, but she's gonna have a pretty composite part in these topics if she's about to be a permit leader, a decisiongiver and a surveillance officer. It's going to be on a lot of sides of the table in these substances. Nowhere do some independent parties, e.g. a crime or arbitrarily, in the event of a disagreement, or in the case of an internalisation, for example, that the data used in comparative use should have been taken into consideration by an independent third party, something like that. I'm sorry, Mr. President, but this is still a loose end and some are quite serious. However, I'd like to say that if there could be a conclusion, as assessed by the changes in the currently distributed bill for a system plan, that men would agree that all decisions on the possible lines of Iceland's highlands would be stored until the new foundation had been fully laid, and the General shall discuss the future policy that is now going to chemicalize on the basis of this case, i.e. I got it into my hands in the fall of 2016, and I talked about it, it would be a huge reform in this respect for many of us, and I would think I would calm a lot of people in this regard. Mr. President. This is what I would like to communicate, and I shall not say any more about it.
