ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u1	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer. You can't expect her to know about the individual estates. I only asked if she knew the truth. I'd like to give the part of the question about the interest of the pensioners who are attracted to increases in the current year and whether it is as some have claimed during the discussion, that this group had the same elevations as the others in the country during the present year and how it is shaped. So because the senator referred to the Generals' housing, the budget of the budget for the attention of the Council's Commander, the Committee to President, is planning a new building at the General Assembly. It seems that a financial committee has provided funds to build some building that other people had planned some decades ago. As far as I can see, money has been given for a project set aside 80 years ago or so, and no one is working on but a prime committee will be assigned to design a new house in the World Congress. These funds are therefore somewhat marked in the proposals of the legal committee. It would be nice to hear if the senator had an opinion of this peculiar procedure and this interesting situation if not to make strange changes in the overall setting.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u2	V.E.G. President. So I'm going to start off with the Generals' housing, and I'm going to have to agree that it's a little strange to talk about building a place for the Council to be built after plans over 80 years of age, because it's changed at that time in terms of conditions for housing and actually more technical aspects about design and technology that were not available for 80 years, which all members of Congress use in everyday life. I don't know any better than what we've been discussing at the moment. A prime committee is a much more modern facility, but I can't answer why it's marked like this on this budget. I don't know if it's considered in any way an 80-year-old drawing or what it is. In terms of the price of disability, it is memorable that the last budget was paid off to raise the compensation by 3.4%, to remind me, but at the end of the budget, it was decided to raise the compensation only 3%. That's what the benefits have been up this year. It is quite clear that there is no way to be comparable to the rewards that wage earners have received this year. Thus, there is nothing but a reasonable and reasonable requirement for the restoration of pensioners, as well as the recovery of less than everyone else in the country during this year.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u3	No matter the 4th mg. 10th par. A convergence on the length of meetings is suggested by the president that a conference can last longer today than what the Senate puts it to say. Is there a vote for this proposal made by the president?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u4	President. We've been up late for the night, yesterday and the day before. I don't know that there's a lot on the pipe about people talking around here about the end of the Senate for Christmas, that there's something to do with their advice. I just want to assure the President that it's clearly not here in the conference room that solutions are developing right now, so I don't think it's too good for a president to run this meeting here tonight and night. I think it would be advisable to think that we'll be risking some kind of hot time for the weekend, and people would try to stick their noses together and meet for the weekend. Today, we would like to have a schedule planned for today. December 11th is this afternoon, the work programme is over, and so on. And although all agreements have begun for the next hour, we should have a few days ashore by completing our assembly for Christmas so that I encourage a president to exercise his political wisdom to put together different viewpoints rather than to use old - fashioned methods for long conferences. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u5	A respectable president. I now have two days in a row of presidents depending on whether he was ready to state that meetings were no longer until midnight. It is unusual for us to find on Friday night over our heads, but it would be better if such a statement were made on the part of a president. I remind you that it has not been a success to continue at night and to reiterate the statement that if the members of the United States offer their talks here at night, they will be removing them in daylight. So there is no way to shorten the discussion in any way to use less violence.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u6	In view of the fact that there are quite a few whales. Congress officials are still on the rosary, and the discussion has been going on for over 30 hours, with the longest going on and 2nd over. The budget is intended by the president to try to use this day to make it possible to finish the rest of the 2nd. ... abundant. That is the objective of the president on this request here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u7	A respectable president. So I'll support the President's proposal, and I'll tell him what I said last night and yesterday, I'm ready to sit down with the council presidents of the government position in an attempt to negotiate when it is possible to complete the discussion here. The government's position is not yet ready, and of course, it wants to be here in an old - fashioned practice that is about to hold eternal talks on this subject. But I just want to say that I support a suggestion made by the President here. While it is impossible to sit down and negotiate when it is possible to complete this discussion, there is, of course, nothing more to be offered than to continue the meeting. [[Up front.]] The management situation has not been prepared to give some indication of when it is possible to complete this discussion. At the same time, there is nothing else, of course, but to continue the discussion. Many talks have been delivered here. I was here all night, and there were many good talks, communicates. [[The president calls.]] I encourage the president to continue this meeting and support the proposal that the president here makes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u8	A respectable president. I understand well that a respectable president would like to continue a meeting, but he agrees that this has been a fine discussion. The only thing you've really missed from last night's discussion is why. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Just after he gave a big speech about the fact that there was no reason. A senator with men except for the night, he went home to sleep and has not been seen since. If we stay here tonight, I'm hoping we'll see what we're seeing. A senator, for it is much more empty in the chamber without him. However, I think it would be wise for us senators to have a cup of coffee today and see if there's any surface issues. I felt sad. The members of the House of Government are willing to do so in the talks I listened to earlier. In any case, whatever comes out of it, you won't lose anything by sitting down and talking. I understand that a respectable president would like to continue a meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u9	V.E.G. President. I don't know what to say. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar. On the contrary, I think the last days have passed, and their discussion has brought us back very hard. The discussion here, both last night and night, was very exciting and meaningful. I felt no better than that there was just a good sound in the talks that were moved here yesterday, and I look forward to hearing more of those. On the other hand, I take my heart to the ground. paritaprevir Guðlaugur willing Þórðarson, I greatly missed not having here that great gentleman. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson. It would still have brought back to life at the moment if he had seen himself able to stay with us last night. Maybe he'll do us the favor of spending the night and night with us.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u10	A respectable president. We're here to discuss the budget, it's been a long time in December, and I'm kind of gonna have to object to the government's remains. We start a month earlier, I'm sure every assembly in other parts of the North has made their budgets for the next year. We've been waiting for some change proposals, first the government, so much of it. It took so much to hear the opinions of all the community members in order to make adjustments. We're here with a bunch of old-fashioned people who probably did this a hundred times before, and I don't understand that we're still in this package. Did they not in July see the need for more money on road transport or more money in refugee affairs? Are they realizing that in October? I don't understand this kind of work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u11	Mr. President. It turned out to be a bigger accident for the majority and for the government that the discussion is open, for it turns out that there have been billions of people here and where changes have to be made. It would have been a bit late if the discussion had been over. Thank you for the government now, for it was clearly not ready to take care of these matters. It was not enough that the 10 or 11 days pass their own work programme; it did not even cover the billions here and the billions who forgot to enter the budget. It was so here in the old days when there were frequent night meetings, at the times when there was still time. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's obituary, as we know, was one rule that was generally held, not to be taken two nights in a row, it would be so that it would be only every other night. Now it's got the highest. The president broke into the paper and is asking permission to hold the third-night meeting in a row and on Friday night. It's not according to any tradition that's been here. I have to say, just as it is, there are some very perplexing and strong reasons why the president is giving away something about what he intends to keep men long here today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u12	It's true to remember, then, that the tradition was also there for 2nd. ... abundant. It almost always ended in the same 24 hours that it began. [[Up front.]] Almost always, that's right. It is true that in the fall of 2012, the president, as the president has retraced, has considered it totally unfounded to make it a special reference afterward.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u13	A respectable president. It's the first financial debate I've made, and I've found the discussion to be very good and up - to - date. This is the case with growing numbers that natural laws come as late as 2nd. So it is not surprising that we are now on the final day of the council not even finished with 2nd. ... abundant. However, rather than stay into the night, I suggest that we start earlier each day next week and try to postpone committee meetings that can be delayed past the New Year's Eve to make the best of the day. I understand if a respectable president thinks it's best to have a night meeting, but then I'd like to have a drink. And here in the hall for our inspiration and joy, Ossur, the son of Skarphéðinsson, the emissary, the most noble of all.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u14	A respectable president. It's a little unusual that we should be discussing keeping the third-night meeting in a budget talk that has been found to be so meaningless on top of everything else because a financial committee has forgotten to assume huge e-mails like the teacher's dresser. It was also found regarding the planned meeting with older ones and microplies that the chairman of the budgetary committee felt that she had not had a set of data that she had needed, suggesting that the proposals of the greater part had been submitted to the council without a suitable number front. It is not enough that this discussion has become too long, or that it is being kept foolish for an endless night meeting. Rather, it is meaningless. It would be easier to postpone this discussion and give it a rest. The budget is back here at the council, following legal consultation with the Ministry of Economics, correct figures, and making sure that nothing has been forgotten before we continue this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u15	A respectable president. At the end of this first week of the second. of the budget bill is beginning to complain that she has been standing too long. It has been much shorter than it was in 2012, and here at the General Assembly we rely on the tradition as the President of Generalis, also the one he as a member of Congress was opening here in the fall of 2012, with a 51 - hour discussion on the financial bill then. The absence of individual senators at night meetings is amazed. I want to say that I don't think there's anything more normal than people just want to be at home with their families and sex at night rather than here and the other is what's unnatural, the urge to stay here at night to do nothing. One talk managed to deliver here on the night of yesterday. Then the conversation might as well have been given in bright air, and in no way this creviction would have reduced the discussion, a respectable president. [[The president calls.]] But talking could, and I encourage men to do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u16	A respectable president. It is possible to be surprised that somewhere along the way, there has been a mistake regarding the pay account that turns to teachers. Of course, it makes sense that this crystals the economy that is going to occur in the school system and our potential to raise the pay of a good - looking teacher to himself. This may be well within 1%, or perhaps 0.1-0.15% of the total budget, so I don't think we need to take long correction. It must have been performed before, and someday it will be carried out. The responsibility for this discussion and the fact that we have an evening meeting with the council members, not presidents. It is wrong to point one's spear to the top. President of this. It is as simple as that. Group heads sit down and decide, and we get requests about what the government would long like to continue the discussion. Then a president can work with them to organize the subsequent Senate work. Do men want to talk until Monday, Tuesday or Wednesday? [[The president calls.]] The only answer that has come from the hall, a respectable president, is that people want to talk while they need it. [[The president calls.]] Well, then there must be a meeting when it is needed. [[The president calls.]] It's just very simple. V.E.G. There's a president up against a wall in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u17	President. Last night I went home and put my kids to sleep and fell asleep. Two waking nights in a row were not too easy for my head, and I am grateful for my sleep. Hv. paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason earlier noted that the government's post was not ready to discuss the end of the council, the end of this discussion. I've never heard of it coming to Porta officially, but I've remembered words here and there in the House that aren't right for me to inform, but Ásmundur Einar may be able to recall a brief speech on Wednesday if he chooses to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u18	The President reminds me of why. Councilmen should give other causes. Senators, full name.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u19	A respectable president. I don't understand what people are talking about here. End of discussion - there are about six or seven on the rosary, and we're talking about a change in between discussions of 10 billion. Why should we not be discussing the law of the law? I don't understand what men are talking about, that the councilmen should sit down and negotiate what? Can't people take their first talks and discuss the matter? We haven't had time to ask more than that. The legal committee how it backs up all its adjustments, many of which are bloody. We have to discuss it at the council Hall. Many government officials have spoken up here. It's a good conversation. That's what I'm talking about. paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason to say that we're having a lawsuit? No, I don't understand what's going on here. Let's just keep talking, but we'll be on the road earlier next year. Of course it doesn't work this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u20	A respectable president. There's some kind of misunderstanding going on here. No one's talking about being a proprietor. I haven't mentioned that there's a filibuster going on. I haven't heard any executives mention that. It's not talking about restricting discussion about the budget, not at all. All I'm throwing into the council plans is that they come together to make some plan on how long this discussion should take place so that the matter can be organized. [[Up front.]] There are six on the rosary, and then there should be a good time for us to finish dinner in all the normal setting, then perhaps this will run out before dinner. [[Up front.]] The President is looking for a warrant while he doesn't know any better. If it's just the six that are going to finish, that's good. I'm quite sure, Mr President, that members of the board of directors of the board are ready to speak to the people on their side of the rosary to shorten some of their language, but if there's only the six on the rosary, we'll finish this before dinner. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] Then it's not a problem. Then I don't understand the problem. [[The president calls.]] The responsibility is for the council presidents to complete this mission. We're waiting for what you in my section want to do. [[The president calls.]] How much time would you like to complete the discussion on this subject?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u21	A respectable president. In view of this discussion, at least I am willing to sit down and review how best to organize the council, but the nature of the situation, according to the circumstances, we need to discuss it all that time and, of course, it's the right thing to do. Senators taking all the time they want to discuss the budget, so it would be better. But I don't think it would be unwise to sit down and see how this looks to us and if we can get together to organize the council until Christmas. Looks like we're heading for it. But if they don't, we will continue to talk about the very important laws and discuss them carefully. It's clear to me. In this regard, members of the council are in charge of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u22	A respectable president. I say no to a night meeting and proof that it's the right attitude. It's that here's the budget corrected about 1.2 billion yesterday because of a mistake. Night meetings and handmates lead to such a mistake. The vice president of the budget, the God - Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson, said that we were falsely accused of the error, the mistake had been made in the Ministry of finance. That's why you should ask the highest question. Secretary of the budget whether to make a mistake of 1.2 billion, making the sale of the state's budget worse by 1.2 billion today than looking for it yesterday, does not show and prove that this kind of work is not successful. Mistakes are the result of overnight meetings and the failure to pass up a major budget, despite more time than ever before, in the budget work this year.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u23	President. I was going to have a place to say. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson, who found out just before I came up here that he's not in the area. I would've wanted to know something before and I'd have asked the president if it was. A senator had not been informed that there was a conversation with him today and what would explain his absence. But the point was that. A senator has declared that he deeply regrets that he has paid a vote against correcting the interest of the elderly in a hall of days, that he has been deeply grieved, that he has not studied the matter well, and that he wishes to improve his counsel, and in fact, he promises in conversation with the media that he will do so in the future. I believe why. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson. I believe he feels that way. I believe that he wants to change his ways and stand with the people he considers to be his own. I also believe that there are other members of the board of directors who share their opinion. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson, who wishes to do today after the vote day Tuesday to show his true will in action and in support of the elderly and the desperate, by improving their terms at the council as planned. Know what I mean. Now you get a second chance. Everyone deserves a second chance. This opportunity will take place within a few days when the smaller part of the council will make a comparable suggestion for dresser treatment for the elderly and micro-piercs at the 3rd. budgets. Then you get the chance to get off the red button to the green one and back it up. [[The president calls.]] I call attention to this and to the encouragement of those in charge who have in mind to improve their counsel to request that they be associated with the proposal and, if not, declare that they will support it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u24	A respectable president. During the past 24 hours, members of the United States have received thousands of letters from the public regarding the treatment of refugees who have become mediaized. It is an enormous wave of anger in the community. This response and the discussion that the matter has been given show that there is a gap between governments in the land and the public. Official agencies are under great criticism as to the cause of the individual person's case. It is not that much to live, it is necessary in our society to be more concerned with refugees'affairs, and it is worth considering how and if the council can contribute to this. It seems here that refugees need better care than refugees'interests, guidance, and assistance, which is in the hands of scattered people in the community. A foreign agency has a role, a multicultural site, the Red Cross, and so on. I think what the council can do to improve this matter is to suggest the establishment of a refugee agent. I think it's time they put their interests, their guidance, their assistance in their dealings with governments and institutions, including them. the ones I listed earlier. What is now forming between the government of the land and the public because of the sad conditions we have, where pictures of children with bear are appearing under the hand of looking out into the great world on our way out of the country, do not make us feel that we are right in business, a respectable president. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u25	A respectable president. I would love to come up here to review my stand on the poor elderly and desperate ones, especially after a vote on paybacks for these groups this week. I've been thinking about it for a long time and reiterate it here that I believe the minimum pay for the elderly and the poor should reach 300 you. K. In the less than three years that the majority of wage earners are guaranteed such a minimum wage. I've told you more than once about this attitude of my own meetings, last few months ago. Today, the elderly receive a minimum of 192 you. K. in a month, but their pensions are about 225 fars. K. Next year, this figure goes up 9.7% and goes to about 245 of yours. K. Based on the estimate of remuneration, an additional 8% will be added in a year, with minimum pay for the elderly over 260 you. K. The government is to take the step to the full and ensure these 300-year-old groups. K. Minimum pay at the same time that others get. The elderly and the disability grew by 3%, not from May 1, and they now have an additional 9.7% during the New Year's season. So a vote could not be added to these groups with a suggestion for recovery. They get no less than others this year. A group of elderly and invalids cannot survive the minimal money that the system guarantees today. However, their real profit is 300 deep ups. K. Minimum pension, nothing else, least of all paid for a few bucks, at the command of the anticoagulant. My dear fellow Ásmundur Friðriksson is thus completely mistaken in this matter. In the discussion, it is best to understand that those in authority are bad people who want patients, elderly ones, and microorganisms all the worst. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I don't know any man who doesn't support these lawsuits, either within the council or outside. You might think, compared with the community media discussion, there's nothing here but a bad guy. [[The president calls.]] Of course not. Something related to the elderly and the poor is one of the major issues of our day.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u26	Mr. President. I've wished to have a word with what. paritaprevir Lára Arnardóttir. Hv. A senator is the first vice president of the welfare committee, thus a confidant of that trade. I'd like to ask again about the interest of the elderly and the desperate and their outcome this year. I just want to ask you which one. A member of the council whether or not she would prefer that the elderly and the poor receive a pair of dresser compensations for those who have received in this year and, of course, return to those that others have received with a fixed raise of pay from March 1 or May 1 this year by ruling a penalties that were repetitive to the same time as in the case of BHM to March 1 or by the decision of a advice of the juristers to top officials, including our own, which was active again to March 1. Counts 'em out. A senator that reported an increase of up to 3% at the beginning of the year in this group to the general pay force, the labour market, which almost overall, is likely to result in pay increases according to an index of 7 to 68% between years? Hv. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson may have my opinion that 3% is the same thing as 7◯8%, but I don't think so. I'm asking why. A senator who has had a comment that she wants to apply himself in these matters: Cognition. A senator uses the idea that this year the elderly and the desperate will be restored to their effective corrections? What is her view of this?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u27	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the inquiry. Me and what. A senator agrees that both the elderly and the poor need to improve. This has been done during this terms, but it is very important to continue in that course and to do even better because we still have too many people who have little between our hands. During this elected period, the government put it in the leading priority of the Agency's forward and independent classes to reduce the number of losses suffered by reformers during the last term. As early as the summer of 2013, the rule was taken that pension fund was an increase, a social security, and pension budget was extended, a decline in income insurance limit was dropped to 38.35% on January 1, 2014. This means improvement is now 7.4 billion. ... higherayear than else would be. A respectable president. Action related to the seminary of this year and the next year's improvement will increase by 14.2 billion by January 1, 2016, an increase of 9.7% by this number, and into that number, there are 3.9 billion which are retrospective increases due to the annual average waste generation. The increase was added to 4.3 billion that the elderly and the poor received in January 2015. A total of 8.2 billion this year is therefore an increase to the seminary. As a result, there is a total of 18.5 billion recoverys to the elderly and micromanagement since January 2015-2016. A total of 26.8 billion will be the rate of the next year's measure of action, i.e. next year's improvement will have been 26.8 billion higher than they would have been. 26.8 billion are directed to the elderly and microbubble, a total of 17.1%. In the final budget of the last government, a total of 77 billion were spent in the press, but the 2016 budget is a total of 103 billion. As I've said many things have been done, but we must continue. A respectable president. [[The president calls.]] The big project is not a single action. I want to say something. paritaprevir The son of Karl, the son of Garðarsson, that the minimum pay of the elderly and the poor should reach 300 you. K. less than three years, therefore the minimum will be maintained. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The government must step to the finish and ensure this group of 300 you. K. Minimum wage.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u28	A respectable president. During the past few weeks and months, the world has watched the dangerous voyages of refugees in the Mediterranean Sea, hoping to start a new and better life in Europe. Most people pay all they have to do with this trip, but about a third of them never reach Europe's shores, and victims make money. It wasn't until a little boy's body hit the shores of Turkey that the world woke up and seriously discussed the plight of refugees from Syria. For those reaching Europe's shores, a long journey up the continent will take place, and when it comes to the Promised Land, it will take a long prayer and uncertainty of how to treat a refuge. That application request sometimes ends with the return of the trustees, as we have, unfortunately, far too well in this country. At the European Parliament, the concept that the Schengen countries will come together and open up common visa agencies in the countries where most refugees live, e.g. and in Turkey and Lebanon. There, refugees who wish to travel to Europe could take refuge and get it paid instead of making a dangerous journey. Such visa agencies could also eliminate the disgusting activities of faultfinders, who lure desperate refugees into the Mediterranean Sea. The number of refugees in Europe has raised up the discussion of the Schengen community. Some would like to break it down, as has been done here at the High Council. On the other hand, I recommend that the International Assembly of Iceland be more guided by the support of Schengen negotiations by supporting the opening of the visa office in refugee camps where refugees can apply for international protection and humanitarian visas, including the U.S. To Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u29	V.E.G. President. First, I'd like to agree with what. paritaprevir I'm Karl Garðarsson and what. paritaprevir Elisa Lára Arnardóttir; for the maximum resources. Governments have gone on or improved the social security system since the summer of 2013 on the rise of the holiday target and the decrease in the damage and social security laws as they are now we are on the way that it is unlikely, even very likely, without anything else having to happen, to demand older citizens and disability about 300 you. K. The minimum wage will be reality at 2018/2019. We'll discuss the budget here, that's a very good discussion. The big economic picture is covered there, and the U.S. dollar is often involved. True, we can be reasoned that a dollar will cost us something and that part of the country's economic problems can be attributed to high interest and adverse investments. True, we live in high stress, and the crown's gang inevitably affects business and prices, causing inflation. It is a discussion that we need to take and shape our currency's policy. In this context, however, we can consider two examples. Danes connect the Danish crown to the euro. For a long time, they have had negative physical growth with the financial costs that will eventually land in the public. There's a piece of property there. This is in the Danish law now, and Dan's budget is under pressure. [[The president calls.]] Finns gangd out from the crisis of 1993. [[The president calls.]] They are in great trouble with euro and have not yet been able to adapt to that environment. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u30	V.E.G. President. I agree with the members of Congress who have spoken ahead of me that the government is determined to persevere in its plans that within three years or so be elected to the elderly and desperate so that they will carry out 300 you. K. per month. I wanted to be here to talk about a story from the Morning newspaper this morning about Iceland's treaties, which is very enjoyable. It shows that the decrease in warning prices in the world brings great benefits to us Icelanders as well as others. The article shows that this week, the oil pan in New York went down to 6.5, which is the lowest price since 2009. The news is very pleasant, and it has fallen so far that in the near future, there will be no more inflation unless it is created here at home, such as by Iceland's Secret Bank, with incredibly high speeds of steering. According to this report, Iceland's clientship can improve by 103/411% and much less. However, it is said here by permission of a president: In contrast, in the most recent financial issues of the Federal Bank, published at the beginning of November it is estimated that this year's business will be able to improve by 5%. But this morning's report shows that this recovery may be up to 11%. Fortunately, the merchants take responsibility by lowering prices in the last few weeks, both because of the sponsorship of a crown, and it was now shown in the unscrupulous price of one of the television stations that Christmas is widely less expensive today than it was at the same time last year. All of this is good news, and to keep the inflation. [[The president calls.]] It is hoped that this will be an example for those who control the movement here. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u31	A respectable president. I think Iceland and I have the idea of ourselves as a nation that if we receive long-sick children, we whip them for nearly a year, we'll drop them off in our school system, we won't let them out of our country. That's why I think that many people are shocked by what happened this week, that people simply believed that the rights of children in this position were guaranteed. I myself was the first shipman to legalize the United Nations Children's Convention with Ólöf Nordal and others of the United Nations, thinking that these laws and many other laws and regulations in our country were as obvious to the interests of children as these are. So I ask the chairman of the General Commission: Does she believe our laws and rules today should ensure the best interests of children in these cases and if it is unfortunate that it has not been tested by appeals or by using current legal guidelines? Or does the Chairman of the General Commission believe that the law does not guarantee the rights of children in this position? Then I ask: Can we change what has been done with these families, but like: Can we change the law to prevent this from ever happening again? Are we going to move a legal adjustment, agree with Congress resolutions, or what choice do we have from the chairman? Can we make up for what has happened to the victims, the children? How can we be sure that this will not happen again? I think we all agree that this is not how we thought we were. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u32	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for bringing up the matter and discussing the affairs of the trustees. Of course, it is difficult to change what is done. I know that everyone sitting in this hall must have experienced these events, just like the one here. Of course, it cuts into the heart to see the manifestation of the Lawgiver we saw this week. I agree with what. A senator said that it would have been necessary to try the interpretation of the legislature for the decision - making committee that we sit in this room started. We have received power from a minister to a special ruling committee, which, of course, requires time to interpret the legislation. We have to test a certain situation. Other than that, I can't express myself on the subject because I don't have the evidence and I don't know the exact basis in it, but I believe the most important thing we do today is to get a prime minister of the Internal Affairs on the change in foreign law produced by a transnational Senate committee. That law is to ensure further access to our country. I believe in an open and democratic society. I want to make it easier for people to come here and sit here. I believe it is important for Iceland to have more work hands and more people who can do their part to make our country even better. I also believe in the individual's freedom to have the possibility of growing and earning money. Then I believe that most Icelanders agree with these views. These views are seen in the new bill. I'd like to go even farther than the bill goes on, but people in the labour market have warned of certain factors that make it difficult in some cases to clear the rules more than we do in the drafts, but we'll see what we do at the council. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I hope the Minister will proceed as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u33	A respectable president. There seems to be some incredibly strange thing to do in our discussion of health matters here in the country. V.E.G. The prime minister has taken the lead in this competition with very many other successful players, with a new article in the News magazine, where he makes the shoes a top - ranking physician in the community, Kári Stefánsson. The Kári wrote to the counter - mines an article showing that it was a national concern how we use lenient donations for health care in our country. I agree with him about that. It's a shame. There's one thing at the highest. The prime minister must not get away with it repeatedly, and it is, even if not otherwise, to claim that there was never more to the hospital. V.E.G. The prime minister seems to be talking about it without regard for prices. [[Foreground on: No.]] Of course, we should talk about contributions to the hospital in solid prices. The fact is, this year's contributions to the hospital are 7% lower in solid prices than when they were most, in 2008. We can look at all the other numbers in this subject. As a percentage of the total budgets of the state's budget, contributions to the hospital are 22% lower than they were 2003. The hospital has simply lived in a long - term operation. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] And as a proportion of national product, we have much less expenses for the hospital or for health care in general than in Scandinavia. [[The president calls.]] And in investments in the infrastructures of health care, we're second down by OECD countries, only Mexico is lower than we are. [[Up front.]] Of course it is shameful. Of course, we're supposed to be able to talk about these numbers without being in some kind of funky situation. If Kári Stefánsson is the best, I think it's time for me to say it's the best. Prime Minister is bottomer. [[The president calls.]] He finds an ever lower plan for the discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u34	A respectable president. I have to say, I'm more and more concerned about the tactics at the council. Now we're doing a third-time financial bill in the season, and we've added one month to allow the government to have more leeway. We are repeatedly in the process of waiting for the government's changes. I'm so surprised that the budget is not nearly finished when it's suggested, that people have not developed a course, and they know some of the lines. We're going to agree to a bill, we're going to agree to it permanently, on public finances, where we're going to have to put some other kind of practice and a whole different thought in a long-term conference. How will we do so if we cannot handle one small budget for one year except with the confusion that is going on here? We get 10 billion dollars between discussions in the process of making changes. It's not much, and I'm worried about it. It is probable that the government does not offer a completely finished bill because the majority of the items need some Christmas package so that they have some room for a change in proposals to come from the greater part, but these are no occupations. I'm surprised to hear this, and I'm worried that we're really not really anywhere to go into a new system that requires much discipline, policy and a lot more confidence if that's what we're doing. I allow myself to state that the budget has been approved in other parts of the North. It's been a while since I heard that Denmark had agreed to its budget for 2016. Then there's something they're talking about night meetings and other things. [[The president calls.]] Of course we're supposed to be talking about the budget in daylight, that's just the way it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u35	A respectable president. I'd like to call attention to a meeting of solidarity or encouragement that's right here outside of the area where micro-agers and pensioners encourage us to accept the change proposals of the memory of the section on the budget on pay-expecting from May 1. I think they deserve this, especially from tax and equality reasons where their money should be considered a reward. We are not meant to have any other law or law of reform other than wages, since these are usually the only ones they're moving, even their whole lives. Remuneration or compensation for this community would make a difference to him, making it possible for many to maintain such a decent Christmas once. There was one woman outside who asked if she could have Christmas with me, simply because she didn't trust herself to celebrate Christmas. This is the case with many of these invalids and pensioners. It's really tough. Besides the attitude we have for reformers, it's terrible, it's like they've done something wrong. Of course, we should change our attitude and how we treat this social group. This 50, 100, 150 you've got. K. alone, this is not much of a sum, would give this group of people an opportunity to celebrate a decent Christmas. As the poet said, and I hope the current government will not accept it: their spoil, their worse righteousness. Let's not let this happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u36	President. Hv. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson, 3.3% in 12 months is less than 9.7% in seven months, just to correct this. On the subject I was going to talk about, I've been e - mailed in the last few days. I counted this morning 136 e - mails that challenged members of Congress to listen to families with sick children. I know as a little replacement that I get a lot less e - mail than other senators, much fewer, though I don't have accurate numbers on it. In several other countries, e.g. A request to the authorities can be sent to the United States and to the United Kingdom. 100 you have. signatures, and there's an answer from the authorities or a discussion at the council. 100 you have. signatures in these countries are the same as nothing; these are 0.04% of the voters in the United States and 0.2% in the United Kingdom. In Iceland, this would be about 100 to450 signatures with the same proportion. A bill of over 2% of the people in the United States and 10% of the population in the United States, 4,600 people are listed as developing, ten times as many as the standard in the United Kingdom. I challenge the Council to start listening a little more carefully to what people are saying. More democracy, not less, not just once every four years. Of course, at the same time, we cannot have the practice that extraordinary matters may depend on the quirks of the council. [[The president calls.]] We'll be like a dog. paritaprevir The Hjövar Hjörvar said to have a clear process and a clear law. Why do these people come in between us like this? I'm calling for some fixes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u37	A respectable president. We often speak as if heaven were in other parts of the North. I've been there, and I'm telling you, it's not right. On the other hand, we can learn much from them, and we are here trying to live in an environment that takes into account what has been going well there. You're right, we need to get there at least during the discussion. I don't know how the debate is in other countries, and I don't think it's as good as we think it is when we talk about it here. At least I trust that there is more to talk about bigger things and the bigger things, taking into account changes in the immediate future we know than we do here. I hope that those who speak this way follow it in action, for for example, we are not discussing priorities with regard to financial matters, nor are we giving any interest. Hv. Government opposition brings in an enormous budget, and it knows everyone who wants to know that a politician who puts billions more tax control on incomeless suggestions, that simple. I'm not talking about extra interest. In fact, it makes me suspicious, and I'll just take it from myself that the Ministry of finance would include information that is fundamental to decisions made and we know, so it would be as understandable as possible. We know it's complicated. Why? Because I think it's far better to talk things out of facts and people have knowledge than from emotion. That's just my sincere opinion. It was very good to have a representative of an older citizen and invalid at a meeting. The budget board. They gave their language very objectively, clearly, and well. There is a big project, and maybe this month has gone into some Poopulian character from time to time. [[The president calls.]] But we have to start completing our work at the Peter Berlandal Committee and work at changing this arrangement in a way that brings us to the results of which we all agree. That's not what we do in today's atmosphere.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u38	A respectable president. Then it's time for a discussion of the 2nd. On budgets for 2016, and it's really fun. On the contrary, I don't say it in anything. It's a really fun project, and it's not because the person standing here is some special figure or amateur about excel documents or complex financial matters, but that's what's behind it, i.e. The issues and projects of public finance are about. In effect, the budget is the basis for all these projects, as the budget is about the dibet side, the expenditure of public projects to the community. It's a big deal when you listen to the management and the authorities talk about it. Sometimes you get the feeling that there are skys and seas between states, that some people don't want public expenses and think taxes are evil and others are totally on the other side. But it's not that simple. It really is an amazing combination of much of our cooperation, much of our responsibility for a joint operation to equalize, to improve the survival of different groups, regions, or whatever. Yet, there is a fundamental difference between some wanting to go beyond others. I like to talk about public financial matters because the projects are in the background and most are very upbuilding. They are very important, and even though they may sometimes be held in different parts of the council, they are at great peace in the community. The largest and most important mail is health and other health issues. We agree that we want to do well in health care. We agree that the Landspians are an important institution and are important. What may be less interesting during the discussion on the budget is the financial laws available. This is an enormously complex account, with a huge amount of money under which there are complex and complex tasks. But if you boil it down, it's just like any other account. It's actually just like a home book because it's always a question about plus and minus, income and expenses. The budget is the expenses, the income we will discuss. As everyone knows who's got something to do with business or run a household, there are two ways to make the result on the right side of zero, to arrive at least on the right side of zero, and not end up in debt. It is to maintain expenses and, on the other hand, to increase income. As we know ourselves, there are limits to how much extra work you can take on and before you stop being upbuilding. But there are also limits to how much expenses can be reduced. The key to my criticism and criticism in the short future is how the government has been involved in public financial matters that have put great emphasis on keeping money under control. There have been changes to take out certain income strains, to lower others, and a sad trend has been to make changes, sometimes to simplify, as it is said, although the simplicity of these measures cannot always be seen. However, the tendency has been to cut back on those who are stronger and to increase in the public, unfortunately. At the same time, a decrease in income, as I said earlier, and on the other side, of course, affects what you can do on expenses. This is indicated by a paragraph 2 of the Committee's Committee of Overseers. Then, according to the above, the state's income is growing, and the third consecutive year is headed for a lax state business. You can totally agree with this. It's a pleasure, of course. It is important that the state's business is balanced, that there are inconspicuous financial laws, that the state does not pay indiscriminately on interest, etc. However, the government is not some konsept in a town. Rather, it is a basic service. Public financial wealth is nothing more than gasoline in the ministry and the welfare system. Taking one out of context with the other is very difficult. I want to agree with what. paritaprevir Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir's complex, front guide III, a smaller section of the budget, which has been repeatedly, including the U.S. ... earlier today, talk and criticize. It's kind of annoying that despite good intentions, and the last thing that happened was. Þórðarson It is as if we could never do that. We're talking at the council about a detailed financial bill that is making big changes in order to increase the discipline, but at the same time, you feel that the resources and financial work are getting away. It has been extended the time the council has to discuss the budget, but it is still unable to complete its work, to make adjustments at the right time. It is as if the increased time is only used to stretch the issues, and eventually, the change proposals are being made and submitted late and finally with a small notice, in this case for a weekend, many days after it was started. It is also taking enormous changes in budgets from the laying down of money until it reaches 2nd. It's billions off. In some respects, it is understandable that there will be some changes in the size and complexity of a business. When budgeting the summer and the first part of the year and providing them in September, there are conflicting factors. We do not know exactly what your income will be, how the economy works, how the cost is developed, how many people get sick, etc. But when you look at the government's transition proposal and you change more part of the budget, we're sorry to see a theme we've seen here in the past few years. On the one hand, we see changes in plans that could be said to have not changed so marvelously but simply made mistakes, as they were said before, mistakes, or wrong plans at first. Some of them are underrated, as we discussed in the discussion on budgets this week, or was it the last time? You only get confused at night meetings. It was made up of contributions to the travel fund, which was fully lighted when we were discussing budgets a year ago, since their budgets were miscalculated. We see this in the change proposals now than then, and it makes me feel even worse, we see in the government's changes and a greater part of the budget proposals that are, what to say, out of parentheses. There are adjustments in projects that are unclear why they were not originally included in the budget, transport projects, rural projects, which I would like to take a later look at in my speech. All of a sudden, they hang up at this rate and on these races during the last days and evenings before the proposals are proposed and that is not a good thing to do. It is also random and difficult, at least for us in the memory part, to grasp the reasons behind some of the proposed changes in the budget, often not large sums of more than 5 billion. to this institution, they're strengthening a project here, but you know there are a lot of agencies and a lot of jobs out there that are not chosen. Why they present themselves in this way in the changing process is a little hard to understand. Changes are also being made to make changes and to place extra funds for some of the institutions due to overrun or to be expected to be overrun, but this is not done in the case of other institutions. It's done in the case of the institutions that have been manuald and you don't know properly whether it can be classified, and I actually allow myself to doubt it, under careful practice, some of them. Congress members, with all due respect for the ability of members of Congress who are usually great and even superpowers, make sudden decisions, and make changes in budgets that have been in a long process. It's not very democratic, it's not a very mature or vengeful practice I want to criticize what happens to us. It may be that we Icelanders have become inherently impossible. It may have something to do with our country. We are dependent on the weather and the amendment, and we have not developed discipline or a vision for the future, perhaps because it has been difficult through history to rely on long - term thoughts. But we must literally cultivate it both because it is possible to do so, but it is also the only way to build something up for a long time. How can very important systems, such as the health care system, be kept out without long - term thought? It tells itself that there can be no good use of money or upbuilding information for the system itself if we do not know where we are going with it and do not know what it takes to finance it. All I want to do is discuss the adjustments made by the minority members of the council as one of the 2nd districts. ... abundant. In some large countries, the government market provides a total of independent financial bill, even full, that presents a different focus than that of the ruling government. That's not the custom in Iceland, I'm afraid. It may have something to do with how small and relatively inadequate we all are, and the government groups do not necessarily have the ability and ability to bring up what is a whole government agency and a whole year. The changes in the share will highlight some key elements where they are being, I want to mean, to make very practical suggestions to improve the current, because there are plenty of expenses and decisions in the budget that are very positive. A lot of money on the budget goes to Iceland's Land Hospital, and that's a good thing, because otherwise we'd have to shut it down. In the smaller part, we agree with the heads of the Land Hospital and all that they can do is trust their design and control their business. But even if there is a lot of money going to the Land Hospital in the law, that is not enough. There are some key elements missing in the budget, and we make a suggestion to start counseling the governor of the Land Hospital, who are not famous for being crushed or running into some luxury, as we all know. We suggest that we add to the necessary maintenance of housing, perhaps a result of lack of long - term thinking. The land hospital, this key health center, was the last time I was expelled in 17 or 20 units, I just can't remember a lot of houses all over town, although I think it was started, at any rate in a organizational view, talking about a new Hospital in 1975. It has taken us on the government of this country and at the Council of the United States for 40 years to discuss how we will develop a modern high - tech hospital. I hope we're closer, but we're out of business than we need money to support the facilities we have today. In addition, it is estimated that there are some billions of costs each year to be in bad housing and to distribute the Agency's merits. We propose to add to the Land Hospital, in reality, what the management feel is vital for the Agency to get into the business, which is 1,400 million. K. in need of maintenance and 1,040 million. K. in increasing volume, the hospital plan is needed to prepare for the ministry. As we know, the condition of the health system is always getting more and more breathed, old as it is, and then the ability to help those who are ill is always improving, happily. Then the National Hospital estimates that there are 400 million missing. K. to establish agreements next year, and we believe it is important to plan for them. Hv. paritaprevir Just earlier, Gudgle Þórðarson spoke of the lack of financial support for the changing proposals of the smaller parts. I'd like to object because we made a big effort to work and prepare for the adjustment of the proposal to contribute. I'll agree with it that these are indications of income that, in most cases, are missing or we believe that were under-established. When we come to the conclusion that money from the Lands Bank was strikingly higher than has been planned in government income schemes, we don't know the outcome, we don't know it, we don't know what it is. Of course, when we're going to make a better tax system, we're trying to figure it out, but it's not in the air. It's been said that in Iceland alone there are tens of billions of taxes, you have heard the figure 80 billion, of taxes that should legally come into the box and not come there. In fact, representatives of the tax authorities have arranged for the council to pick up a few storms and, among other things, ask for more funding to improve the tax system. Although this funding has not come into the house, no more than a large proportion of the income the government expects in its budget bill, it is not trapped into the air but is based on great odds. We also contribute to the adjustment of our injections to the school system and to the infrastructure of the road system, to the climate fund, to the green economy, which we would like to call an investment in the future because it is the State's job to support future prospects. Training young people to work in society is a very important investment. It's gonna cost a lot of money. We all know that education costs a lot, and it would be far less expensive to let it go than the investment comes back, both to happier people who are important, but also to more efficient employment and, in the end, to make better money for the state's funds to live on a joint project. So we're adding to the change. Then, as we've seen and talked a lot about this, we're suggesting that 5,305 million. K. will be added to the increase in disability and pensions to ensure that the non-contracted group who have no partner in their terms and who are dependent on our donations from the World Council does not follow the highest pay they earn. It has to be said at the moment that it is so easy that it would be such a shame for this group, who for some reason have the power to influence their costs and most inside them, who do not have the ability to go into the job or to increase their income, who need to live the terms we have seen and just hang and even not hang on to the minimum. It's kind of a disgrace for this community. I just wanted to continue to discuss specific points that will come to the long - term thoughts that I mentioned before or a certain tendency to lack long - term thought, which is well listed in a committee's list. Section 3 of the budget board. These are things like pension bonds. We've discussed the high degree of Icelandic Pension bonds. There have been some changes that have been made to bind well, but there are still quite a few not studied, i.e. We know that there is a large account into the future that we do not expect. In itself, we wait to deal with that problem in a somewhat Icelandic way, hoping that in the meantime it will rise. That's not a good practice. It is understandable that we must react to unseen changes, the status of fish stocks to the country, or the number of tourists who think of flying up here, aluminium, etc. But that we create an uncertainty that can be predicted is not good. The same can be said of an apartment loan fund and his status. Sadly, it is not strong, and it is unclear and not properly addressed to the conclusion in it. Before I open my speech, I also want to emphasize several lawsuits, because in this thick book we cannot and do not have reason for every member of the council to go through every single team. The discussion is long and thorough so that we members of the Parliament will switch sides between us. But I would like to emphasize and agree with others about the situation in prison. A specific emergency is there, and it is very important that we respond better. Prison matters. Prisons and penalties are supposed to be penalties, and we know that the cost of being ill - treated in prisons and having bad times and not returning them to society is not good, as is the high cost of our health - care system, which is due to our failure to prevent disease. For example, it is good to see an injection into your health - care clinic, which is the first contact of a sick patient, even if it might be better to do so. But prison matters are very hard to read, and it is vital that we look at them specifically. I have also been digging in the affairs of immigrants and people of foreign origin in Iceland. It has to be said that that this group of languages is of more than little importance because the latest of the Haf living is saying that just less than 8% of Iceland's people are born abroad. Of course, some of them have one or two single parents, but most do not, and most of them do not have a language other than their native tongue. That group is part of the country and an important part of the country, just like other Icelanders, both in business and in the general community. I'm worried that we're about to land in the same place as many of our neighboring nations that haven't given enough attention to service to this group, that there's going to be a problem. When we are in a foreign country, we know that we are not as good as local people. When you look at the budget bill, which is based on a set frame, which is repeated years from year to year and then filled up into it, sad few are particularly expounding financial support for the affairs and issues of immigrants in Iceland. The money that goes to the jury is a little hidden in the museums of the council users and actually inside the funds of the local institutions. For example, when it comes to institutions having the law to interpret services for foreigners who attend, there is a failure to be properly organized. Some institutions simply do not feel that they have the funds to render them fully service while other institutions stress it. But this interpretation service is not clearly seen in the budget. This is still another example of the fact that small funds can change entirely a vast, simple organization, such as the Multicultural Council of Isafjordor, which serves as a service to rural society, to members of society, and to individuals involved in the affairs of immigrants and foreigners. It's an institution, if I remember correctly, with 32.2 billion. K. or something on the budget, and that's a suggestion to reduce the donations that I think 200 of you, just in the way of some common cut-off requirement. However, the services being performed for this small amount of money are of great importance to those seeking it. It also makes a huge difference for the individuals who are looking for the services for which their communities are supposed to provide them and who are getting advice on how to provide them. I'm talking about hundreds of thousands and several million in the huge context, but saving in places like this only makes large costs, which are not upbuilding. Although the budget is large, complex, and based on money that is basically dead things, it is important that we not forget that these money, these amounts, whether called billions, millions, or thousands of dollars, are symbols or are translated into meaningful services. After all the services and activities, there are tasks, tasks that society has decided for. The Synod has determined, even legally, that we should do so. Eventually, it is because they are important to society and are important to the individual. Despite the misunderstanding, it is very important to look at the budgets, which are rather dead when printed on paper, to remember that behind the team, people live behind them. It is important that we accept human affairs at all times when making decisions about the laws of the State. I want to reiterate what I said at the beginning of my speech that such an account is, in its very nature, simple though it is complex. This is going to work on income and expenses, plus minus. It is not good to keep our income low, and thus expenses too, after a very difficult year of collapse, where our welfare systems and our main institutions have had very poor financial resources. It wasn't because nobody liked it but understood that Iceland's post after crash, the state fund after a crash was so much that it had to save. There was nothing else. But now that we see society rising and money rising, the government has chosen a way to lower income farms, chosen to return income instead of rebuilding our institutions and welfare system, which we in the bright future cannot agree. We feel that it is important to rebuild our organizations and that it is ultimately irresponsible and that the cost of future action is not expected. I've finished my case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u39	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the speech. I think it's important, as a matter of course. A senator did in his speech, talking about the outposts, but it is also important to think about how we make the money, since this needs to be in context. I agree with what. A senator in that we need to build up our society after the crisis, and now is just the time to do so where everything is going so much better. We need to think about the income institutions that the government has to raise for social projects. I want to enter the senator by the way he envisions it. [[The president calls.]] I'm sorry, the time was wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u40	The speech time was one minute.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u41	Yeah, but the time was wrong. In other words, how we should act on the tax returns, how he sees it best. Where should we take the taxes?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u42	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. We've seen changes to income power in the history of this government. There have been changes in the tax system, including Embarrassing from taxes, which can be sure, were directly followed by the collapse when it was necessary to increase the government's income simply to cram the marijuana, such as a fiscal tax, a special energy tax, etc. I'm not saying that any tax system should be held in the same form, but it's important that we continue using the tax system to settle in the community. I see my time has run out, but it is also important that we gain money from common resources.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u43	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer, and being able to give me such a fine answer, even though at the time of the question, I was shocked. I appreciate that. Hv. In his talk, a senator correctly spoke of a large amount of money being placed in the Land Hospital. I agree with what. A senator that needs to put more money in him and, of course, supports the changes in the memory of the item. I'm worried about what will happen if there's no more money left on this. That's why I want to ask you why. A senator: What does he think will happen if we do not place more money in the hospital?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u44	A respectable president. I'm so many people worried about what happens, but I may not be the expert that I can explain exactly what it is. The land hospital is an extremely complex institution that has had very major cuts in recent years, in many respects very limited infrastructures, such as housing, etc., or facilities that are growing older and new housing are not coming. So I'm worried about it, as we've heard the hospital managers say, that the operation is being run as well as it is in that place to be very sensitive. I'm just worried that if we don't do this, we're going to have a delicate operation, the staff's position will be compromised, and that we can cause personnel flights, etc.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u45	President. In view of the reduction in the third part of the budget, health matters are reviewed and, in view of the greater part, there is a table on the development of medical proposals. It refers to a 26.9% change in bill 2016 compared to budget 2013. Of course, this is not expected to change, so there is a small amount of dust being thrown into the eyes of people. If financial change is to be expected, there would be at present some 136 billion in 2013 that would make an increase of about 18.5% from the 2013 budget, i.e. About 7% lower than possible, which is approximately one year in raising health donations compared with averages. [[The president calls.]] Another thing I wanted to ask about was -- I'll just get comments to this team first.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u46	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. He's pointing at good points. I think there's a point behind these calculations, i.e. how difficult it is to estimate Iceland We've added this uncertainty that I only mentioned by wearing an independent chip which is, unfortunately, rather difficult to calculate or estimate. As a result, we are always looking at the amount of money that is not comparable to the changing prices. It really means that it is very difficult to put in plans or numbers that are safe, and unfortunately, it is easy to put out numbers that look reassuring but may not be. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u47	A respectable president. That's exactly what I'm talking about. According to a senator, it is easy to say that there has never been more medical advice, but nothing can be said until the inflation is evident at the beginning of 2017. So I ask people to use caution, at least take into account prices. It was just a scheme of 3% inflation, there are higher anti-inflation predictions. I'd also like to ask about my share's proposals for financial support, which, in turn, disintegration of financing. On the one hand, while the lesser part tries to be more accurate in its predictions, you may be careful to conclude about each step's entrance. Then perhaps the danger is that at the end of the year, you say, "Oh, oops." It was a little too accurate and we're in a minus. [[The president calls.]] But if the forecast is careful, we will say: " Woe! We got much more than we expected.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u48	A respectable president. When it comes to planning, the racing must always be as accurate as possible to have the plan. But we realize that a dollar and a penny cannot always be accurately estimated. The funding indicated in the changes in the memory of the part is based on the experiences we have in the past few years because there have been many times more money money money has been paid and that there has been repeated reports showing the possibility that much tax recovery is possible. Then there's also some basic thing that we're going to want to see more money coming into the interest of common resources through hunting costs and energy taxes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u49	President. Thank you. A senator for a fine speech earlier. He mentioned it and expressed it in a way that made him feel that there is little change in the Senate affairs of a budget bill and a discussion here at the Senate Hall, and, in fact, nothing really changes. I don't agree entirely that there were significant changes in the last terms of a good agreement, including, in this case, in the last terms. by the change in ethic laws, which made financial bills earlier, by changing the terms of Congress that increased my responsibility in committees, by changing the financial committees and other resources to prevent the random distributions of money here and there. The matter was fine, and I think the members of all classes spoke for it at the time. So you could put it in a better form. It is true, however, that the senator's experience is that it has not changed, i.e. It's going back to the same place. The discussion is delayed, the issue is delayed, there is again some undefined distribution of money from museums. I'd like to ask you what. A senator as to what he thinks it is necessary to nail these changes somehow. Because we seem to agree that this needs to be changed, that it needs to be better.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u50	A respectable president. A big question is asked. I have only a few years of Congress experience, but it has been said that it is a characteristic of us Icelanders that we are having trouble taking discipline. My experience, and it has been found, that it may be most successful when men agree on it. It has been interesting to listen to a discussion about public finance bill, which, of course, is a big attempt to place more discipline on the money. I've had experience with the local government phase, when new financial rules of the local community were discovered, that they had a great and good effect on them. To be honest, when we discuss matters mainly in the way that a group of generals thinks the others are doing everything wrong and the others say they do everything right, that's the right thing to do. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u51	President. I've been thinking about this a lot, why can't we get any closer? There's been a lot of things, let's not deny it. Many of these events followed the collapse because people began to think differently, realizing that here was a terrible disorganization. It was more or less a mess, all the budgets, financial control, etc. was in a tube. Happily, things have changed. But the work force here seems to look in the same direction, i.e. The bad habits find a course within the new rules, within the new law that we put ourselves in this goal and that seems to be a good thing. While making laws and rules about how to work may not be enough, it does provide certain conditions for us to do better in this regard. [[The president calls.]] I wish, of course, that when a budget returns to the next fall, it will be otherwise, but everything seems to me that it will not.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u52	A respectable president. I don't want to be too prophet, and I tend to be optimistic and to believe it until it turns out that we can improve our work. But as I mentioned in my talk, I'm concerned that I feel that in some respects we're leaking back to the same time as we're all here at the General Assembly agree that we want to improve our skills. That's what worries me. What happened in the crash was that we went as a community on a major belly button examination. Among other things, we looked at careers, saw what had been available, what had gone wrong, and decided to learn from it, and, of course, we have learned a lot from it. However, you are concerned that it is so easy to let go of self - discipline and, as time goes on, you need to remember more. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u53	A respectable president. I listened attentively to a talk. A senator like me is going to make it all equal when it comes to it. A senator will discuss these matters. True, I don't quite understand when he says that after the collapse, there were saves in every place. It was saved in some places, especially in health care. There was a lot of money in the surveillance agencies. When that government began, it was a perfect lack of discipline, and it is possible to read about in the publication Government Accounting. But then the question arises. A senator very much about it, and I've been watching it, that there's something unnatural about moving on from the beginning of the process. There's so much foundation and ministry. All right. It's okay. But I don't understand why. In contrary to this, members of the council offer suggestions, both a special representative of the Bears future on a budget board and also on the less part's proposals. I can't figure out which agencies are taken out, e.g. only one medical facility is seriously taken out in this regard, although it applies to all of them. [[The president calls.]] The first thing I'm asking is why men do it against what's being brought up, and also, I ask for funding, it doesn't resist the suggestion of my share.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u54	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator is a great man for the counter-sponsored. He throws a lot of balls in the air, and I'm not sure I can reach them all. He speaks of the surveillance agencies he chooses to call them and will be talked about. Some of these institutions, such as food management, and so forth, are projects that we have had for a very long time and feel very important. Other institutions, such as the World Health Organization, may have been a source of strength, but it may be part of this reaction and this discipline we learned from the collapse and the report of the Council's Research Committee, which showed how damaging and under - control could be. In 2008 and 2009, the lack of surveillance and discipline made this community enormously costly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u55	A respectable president. I'd like to point out that after much effort was placed on the SEC, there was no discipline. Hv. A senator knows Keflavík's Satisfaction Fund. It was after a collapse, though, that the observatory was immensely large and the banking system was low. The 2011 media committee was established and has grown dramatically since then. Hv. A senator also had an example of a surveillance agency that is necessary, such as the government's radioactive control. That institution has not been expanding. Why not make the same demands for these people as for health care and other important factors? I'd like to ask, too, because of what. A senator is offering a suggestion to finance the budgets, including 4 billion for tax control, and points to an outing of 80 billion. Why doesn't he pick up the 80 billion? Or only 60? Is he making a discount? [[Up front.]] A respectable president. It doesn't make sense. It's completely insurmountable. Right away. Councilmen talk about the importance of listening to institutions and looking at professional employment. The reason this interest has become part of the budget bill is because we are listening to and paying attention to the Bank Office, a profession that holds a place of property. [[The president calls.]] Here's why. In contrast with all the information they speak about financing, members of the government have to take the opposite course of the counsel.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u56	A respectable president. I made it clear in my speech that the changes in the memory of the part were put out of memory, and it is now only a basic definition of the smaller parts of the Council that it is out of part, that it does not carry out. Why don't we go and get that money? That's part because we're not in control. We are, however, making additional tax - control donations just to collect this income. We're not so optimistic, we don't put our expectations up to the top, like whatnot. A senator warned that we are going to get all that has been said to be out of the world but only part of it. Our donations are thus based on the experience we have seen in budgets in recent years.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u57	A respectable president. I'd like to first have a few words about the discussion itself. There's been talk of her and talk about tradition in that regard when it comes to 2nd. Funds, that in the past the discussion was brief and even taken 24 hours, and the law of 2rd has been handled. These would have changed in the last term. I remember that very well. It was quite remarkable when some members of the council were suddenly moving here that, in one case, I recall 14 talks at 2nd. ... abundant. [[Up front.]] I think it was safe to call it a filibuster at the time. There were also many heat issues at the council. At that time, the tradition of long discussions developed. of budgets. I must say, away from what you think of a lawsuit like it occurred at this time, which I don't think well, it seemed to come out of a very fine new tradition, i.e. that members of Congress felt that it was their duty to put themselves on the rosary at 2nd. The sheep and the sheep tell of their vision of the kingdom and of the community. I have listened to talks of interest given during the past few days and actually 24 days, since meetings have been late into the night. I like them. I feel that they are moved with sincerity and perspective, and I feel that they are a credit to the General. I think people here are telling how they feel about things, how they feel about the projects ahead, what the focus they already have on community affairs, and how they want to share money differently. Government leaders have also come up here and defend their own priorities. I like that. It's been a great conversation. I'm saying that meetings need to be late into the night, but I think we should celebrate the argument and continue, do more like this. Now I'm gonna put mine in the pavilion. What's my vision? What do I think I have to do? When I read the budget and the budget, they're very basic, they describe what more things are going to do, what they have to do, I'm happy to see that the economy is taking over. It's all so much better. It has, in fact, brought world attention to the fact that the economic rise of Icelanders after a very serious financial collapse is almost a miraclelike one. It is the decisions of many classes and many politicians and officials behind them. We hope that in the months that followed, we will look forward to the success of old living things, which has been a very big problem that we have faced, people in all categories. Many successful decisions from collapse seem to lead to success. All of this is a cause for rejoicing. It's something you hoped you'd do after such a deep depression. In fact, I felt that it was more likely that it would happen because the real economy was deep down. It was also an adventureful experience in recent travel services. You would always expect that, but you still have to celebrate the growth of the economy after a difficult year. What expectations did a man have? I think it's important to talk about it like a light at the end of the tunnel you envisioned, some goal that you thought we were trying to reach as a nation after a difficult time. I had no idea that we had to cut so much down to finance our infrastructure, our health, our school, our communications, our road system, as it was obvious, that we had to do after the collapse, that was over 200 billion dollars a payload of money. We had to postpone our work. I experienced a temporary situation. Of course it couldn't be that way. It would not be a new tradition in the state to postpone the necessary maintenance and funding of infrastructure. I think it's disappointing now, when we're accepting us, and very economic growth has been many years in a row, that we don't see the necessary public investment that needs to be made. It's not going to happen. I don't get it. I don't understand why humans don't see, because it's perfectly obvious that we can't get fired. We cannot cancel, risk the necessary structure of the infrastructure. In its account on the bill to legalize various criteria of a bill for 2016, the industrial organisations generally have to be about 4% of national production, with regard to population growth and so forth. Since 2009 the ratio has been between 2.53%. In fact, the following section of the budget shows that public investments do not keep back. This means that the property of the state, the infrastructure, is demeaning. This isn't working. This isn't sustainable. It's not possible. This course must be turned. I ask myself, " Why aren't we turning off this path now into budgets after a period of approximately 4 in 5 years? ' Why not, with all that up in Iceland's very large industry when bankers talk about how good they are. Will we postpone this? Are we going to go through good times, productive times, without building up the interior? So, what happens during the next crisis? It's a lack of vision, which I think the government parties are incredibly guilty of. I'm surprised. I thought these deep - seated power groups understood the need to invest in the interiors of society. I don't understand this hiccup, for example. in regard to health investment, building a new hospital, which has been clearly needed for years. There's no transport plan yet. What's that supposed to mean? It is obvious that the road system needs to be built, that the communication system needs to be built, and that the electrical transport system needs to be built. This is weird. It's disappointing when it comes to the government's affairs. In fact, it is disappointing to watch 10 billion resources that can be reasoned with strong evidence that it is due mainly to the irregularities of the banking system and to the continuation of projects. This isn't a sustainable government business. That's not good. This is the course we must take. Now, and this may be related to my disappointment, that with the other senators in the future, here were two in the last term of election action, and a bright future, the initiative was to take place, as well as a number of others who thought the same, that a financial arrangement was adopted by the end of the last terms of investment planning. It was because we felt that what had to happen after a long time cut in investments was building, that it had to be built up. I also liked that after a collapse, a large number of them began to find out where the need was most needed. It was inspired by a project called the national parish Plans, which was a consultation project. It simply went through the country and consulted with local authorities, citizens, interests groups, and defined what needs to be done in each part of the country to blow in the process. It was an example to me. There were reports on what small increases in competitive funds would be made, blessed since then, in Technological Development Funds and Research Funds, but also for competitive funds in creative and green industry. It's been reported. What a lucrative investment that was! Of course, it had to be built up on road systems and funds in the investment plan and in necessary buildings. I don't understand. It was approved here. It was financed. Ideas were that it would be justified to take just irregular groups, such as the profit of the banking system, in order to finance a lucrative and necessary task to disappear from this drive. It was also ideologies that it would be justified to take advantage of sustainable resource use in the marine route and return it to part of the country, all in part. All of this was in harmony with plans to pay off public debts as well. It has been found that this money has paid off, but it has only slipped completely without discussion in other things. I hear a lot of diplomats coming up here giving me their vision, and they want to make extra investments. They want to attack these projects. They'll see how spontaneous it is. Why was it the first work of the current government to put this investment plan off, the amount of money, when it had been approved at the council? As it turned out, the Council had agreed to this course. Since then, the government has been picking up the same team and taking them back, e.g. in budgets, such as the construction of tourist facilities. It was part of the investment plan to build on the interiors of tourism. The government blew it off, but then he saw that this need for investment was clearly there, since the plan was based on a very thorough analysis. The government has been launching these teams into budgets for the entire ideal period. We'd have been better able to live up to our investment plan. How about the landscape now? Now the investment plan would be over. It was to be from 2013 in 2013/2015, three years, including both years. The building project would have been under way in all parts of the country. There would have been a number of important transport improvements on all kerosene soils, including some of them. Animal tunnel on the West. It would have provided a very handsome structure in the interiors of tourism at a very good point today, with the forecast of the huge number of tourists next year. Would it not be good to have undergone that construction? Where was the concern of this government? What was the test? Of course, some emphasis could be changed to the investment plan, of course, when the new government began, but to blow it all off and then actually add nothing to the public investment other than to put 40 million into repairs. Then there is the possibility of building a building at the Assembly Hall Hall Hall, which must be a drawing from the Guðjón of Samúelsson of 1916. It's just funny. This is ridicule. I don't understand that kind of carelessness. I don't understand this lack of vision. I'd have thought it was obvious, staring me in the face. Another thing that disappoints me after a collapse, in the upcoming economy that makes for itself a cause for joy, as I have traced, is the management style of the present government. I had hoped that after a collapse all sorts of consultations would lead to our futures as a society leading to a very difficult issue. The Constitution was reimbursed. This can be viewed in a variety of ways. Maybe it was too fast and it could have been given longer time. It was agreed at the council, including On my part and on my part. Councilmen of the Árni of Páll the Árnason of years and of Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, suggest to give it more time. We have time. Still, this work of consultation was a real shock, and it almost came to an end. I mentioned earlier the application plans for the national part of the country, the remarkable work of consultation with the local government and the national part of the country. It was blown off. It was cut off to 15 million during the start of the government, but it has been taking a little back to it because the government realized that the project was good. Still, it was a consultation project that was blown off. It was a ground for consultation on increased prosperity where representatives of the Polish and professional sectors met. He's on a plane shot now. We will see how all sorts of legal consultation procedures are handled, such as framework and airfield consultations and so on. The application for participation in the EU, regardless of what people think, was a process to lead us simply as a community making a decision on this matter and to reach a decision. I felt that a certain democratic development took place for obvious reasons after a collapse. There was a call for direct democracy, more consultation and more healthy conversation. Hence, a bright future was formed, among other things, to fight for it. What have we seen? We've seen all our consultation assignments off. It's a management style according to the 1916 drawings, I think. It's an old kind of politics. This is where groups come and simply say, "We're in the big part of it, man. That's bad. As a result, my understanding of the zeal and anger we experience despite the economic rise - ups. I feel that this must be understood by members of the board of directors. At times, they are surprised when they say: " Don't you see what's good for the economy, and don't you see that we have it better? It is, in part, true, but it is not to be underestimated by the anchor in people. I can find it in myself. It has to do with the development plans, as I have been tracking, after difficult times and, on the other hand, more participation in decision-making. This vessel must not be underestimated. People must be spoken out and taken action. Otherwise, it will take on us economically. I'd like to mention an example of one form of the tank and a lack of consultation and a lack of conversation. Let me give you two examples that really cost us a lot of money. How did it come to be that about a year ago, there was a heated work battle in the workplace? Can't it be said that almost every labor union, the labour market company, has suffered a strike? Is it not a very serious economic reflection of the lack of targeted consultation, conversation, and confidence that almost all workers in the workplace are living up to time, after long-term economic growth, have to make full use of the right to get better by unsatisfactory conclusions, that my own natural reforms that are difficult for society to finance? Lack of unity, lack of trust, and the cocky political politics that the present majority of people pursue costs of money. The second example I'd like to mention is the job of the council. How a lack of consultation at the General Assembly leads to another form of waste, simply waste of people's time and abilities because people do not talk to each other, which happens repeatedly. I feel like I have to fix this. One thing I've experienced recently, one large manifestation of such a cocky-whipped political bitch that costs money and leads to bad decisions -- we saw a lot of this before collapse, countless bad decisions have been made on the foundation of an old-fashioned Polish bitch who is being practiced on the basis of drawings since 1916 - is the topic of health, how the spears fly between the World Council and the Hospital, and between doctors in society and the Supreme Court. A recent example is that of prime minister. It seems completely impossible to discuss these matters with calmness. I know there's a lot of sides on this thing. I know that the heads of a budget board, like what? paritaprevir Gullard Þór Þórðarson, who sits here, has shown up along with the highest. A prime minister who is not going to be driven back and who is good is good is that in the last two or three years, contributions to the hospital have increased. They have. That's good. In other words, they were never more than a dollar's number. But that does not tell the whole story. Of course, it must be looked at a fixed price. To get a full picture of the hospital's position, you need to draw out more sides of the combination, more sides of the position. For example, a thought - provoking question that can be dealt with here is that even if donations have increased in recent years, we must be able to ask: Is that enough? When we consider other comprehensive evidence of the hospital's health status, the answer is, Of course, not enough. If we say that the increase that has been under way in recent years is enough, including Over the course of pay development, this is an example of a significant lack of ambitious vision of health. I think men are getting that clear, at least If I can tell you one clue. The government presented the budget under the heading that it was a welfare bill, a welfare law, and directed them to give to the hospital and to the health professionals. No one talks about welfare laws anymore. It is clear to everyone that the increase in health is not enough; the increase to the hospital is not enough. Then let's look at the numbers. One good standard is the proportion of total government expenses. We're looking not only at this terms and the last terms, but the developments. I think it's important to talk about health matters. I think they're the most important case of the budget. The surveys repeatedly show that the nation feels the same way. We want good health. What has been the development? Hospital contributions, as a proportion of total government expenses, have declined to be 9.4% in 2003 to 6.8% in 2014. In other words, they have been attracted by 22% when the transfer of S-labelled medicinal products to Iceland's Medical Insurance has been taken into account. They must be taken into account, for things have changed during this period. Despite the increased scope of projects, they increase by 2% each year due to altered ages, increased number of people in Reykjavík or near the hospital, due to changes in the development of disease, long term diseases - this is all happening, and despite the increased need, contributions to the hospital have been drawn by 22% from 2003, looking at the ratio of total government expenditures. It is said that contributions were never more than made to the hospital. V.E.G. The prime minister often says so. I don't know what he's talking about. I can't see how to reach this conclusion unless I just look at the dollar and expect no fixed price. Of course, if we look at this on solid prices - people can debate what is a fixed price in the hospital's case, whether they want to watch the prices or the pay development, but according to the figures I have and the results when I find that when I just look at the numbers of the budget, there were budgets for the hospital's management in 2015 less than 7% in 2008 and in 2008 the tops. The men are the best minds today. This is the fact. This rhymes quite with the fact that the hospital needs more than 3 billion now in order to maintain a stable operation and service. That's what's missing. The response of a greater proportion of legal committees is to report the hospital's operating procedures. All right, fine, let's do it. Is there any suspicion that the members of the hospital are not telling the truth and right, that they are trying to fight from a government fund to have it better, and that the financial contributions there must be made, and the smaller portions of the panels made a suggestion that there is no need to be based on any need? If so, I feel very serious. The evidence I have been presented shows conclusively that this is very convincing. Consider, for example, the development of people in the capital area. The number has increased by 6.7% since 2008. As a result, the number of subjects aged 70 years and older has increased by 13.2% and 80 years and by 19.4%, respectively. The population in general has increased by 4.3%. Is there any wonder on the basis of this information that the National Hospital says we need more money? We need to take care of this. Consider, then, the comparison with other northern nations. It is very close to examining the proportion of GDP. The overall contribution to health care is 8.7% in Iceland, Sweden 11%. We're the lowest to compare in the North. Consider an investment in the interior of a health - care organization, a subject that has been very much discussed here. It is, in fact, amazing how long it would have taken to reach a decision to start a new hospital that has been clearly needed for many years. Let's see what the figures tell us about comparing with other OECD countries on investments in health care infrastructures. This share is said to be desirable at around 0.5% due to urban development, age combinations development, and the development of various long term diseases. There is an investment in infrastructure of 0.5% of gross domestic product each year. Where are we? In 0.1%. We're sitting next to OECD's list. Mexico is at the bottom. I have to say, if anyone thinks it's acceptable, a good place for the health system, especially in the upcoming times, I think it's an ambitious vision of health matters, even a lack of vision. I feel like I need to talk about it. To get some healthy discussion on health matters, I feel the need to put these minute facts into the bag. I see a lot of health issues that I find exciting, which the government is doing, for example. campaigns to promote mental health care and health care. We can reason on whether the health care should be private. I see a very good example of private health care centres in Iceland. In the short future, we have been advocates of being open to a wide range of health - care devices. I think building health care in Iceland is absolutely important. This helps to relieve the stress of the Land Hospital. I think it also takes to build resources for older citizens, nursing homes, and home care to relieve the stress of the hospital. When it comes to health care, I find that there will be no self-employment, some kind of health - care development so that third people will start to heal on the shoulders and fingers of others'diseases. Then the key is that we have a state-of-the-art health insurance system. I think it's the perfect key. I sense that it's okay. We're not about to create a competitive environment in health insurance. When it comes to doing so, everyone enjoys the same rights. I simply say, if you're going to have an invitation to a health care clinic, which I think is a lot recommended and I think it's right to do, I think that there might be a good and need in addition to your health care right now, then you have to be careful that there won't be a profit company and there wouldn't be some sort of self-employer in a common fund through Iceland's Medical Insurance. Public funds must be carefully monitored there. These are the warning examples in this regard. I think there may be strong evidence that family doctors, doctors, and other health - care professionals will be able to take advantage of it increasingly, on the basis of their education and their talents, to direct health care. I also find it important to take care of things that are good steps. But I also feel very important that we get the medical discussion out of the mail messages and try to talk it over like human beings. We must all be concerned about health care. Sickness must be cured. We want Icelanders to be safe when it comes to the health system. Of course, we need to put all the details on the magazine. Finally, I want to say: I've been talking about investment deficiency and I've heard figures that the system is missing from 100 billion to less than 500 billion in public investments. I don't trust myself to decide what time that is. We need to have a plan and we need to identify the need. It is heartbreaking to read a follow-up with the budget bill that no attempt has been made to discern this need. They do not even have the confidence to mention the projects they are going to make for the little money that is put on public investments. They don't even mention them. Yet, this plan is due to a plan of three, four, five years old. Why is it not general practice to identify the need in Icelandic society? After we look at our current need, are the hospital officials not calling? Is not the police calling for her to be heard when they say that the growing number of tourists calls for increased police activity? Don't we have to listen to all these parties? Listen to local government officials when they say that their income stocks are not enough to carry out legitimate duties? Are these people lying? Of course not! Simply put, we must be people to hear the party's assessment of what is needed. I say you have to get some food. We can certainly reason on this. Let us do so on the basis of a wealth of facts and facts. It just comes to the politics. I don't think that there is any need for public funds at a single time. I don't think that all public investments needed at one time can be made, especially now that such intense projects are about to be started, as in a major industry, which constitutes an impact of management and expansion. I don't think so. What I'm calling out for is a long-term thought, a time plan. When are we going to attack this? How are we going to do this? How are we gonna keep this more sustainable? I feel like I'm speaking from a very fine chair when I ask for this because, along with other members of the council during my last term, I was just willing to agree with such a plan for a three - year - old investment plan. It's very good and the need for thought practice to imagine the world if the plan had been established, as I traced before. I'd like to make it my final statement to advertise by the government now developing its investment plans, its plan for building the infrastructure and building up the community, because it's not in these budgets.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u58	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. In fact, I would have liked to have something more bright in his talk, since he represents a Brighter future, but he admitted that he was a bit harsh and frustrated, so it is understandable. It is difficult to be bright and proclaim better times when you are harsh and bitter. I'm here with the change form from my share and his agents. I ask myself, " Do you suggest that this be changed in addition to the adjustment made by the rest of the section? ' Is there a conversation? I don't trust myself to add this. Is it correct to understand that this is a suggestion for you in addition to the adjustment made by the greater part?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u59	A respectable president. No, these are the suggestions for changing the budget as it is available. We don't have any suggestions for changing the development of the more part. It works, so you make a suggestion to change the budget. We make adjustments, and the greater part plays out a great deal of suggestions. That's the way it is. These suggestions reflect a common view of what is most urgent to us in this year's budget. Only about my alleged bitterness, I'm not bitter, but I think it's very important that the more important part of the government try to understand why it is an organization. I offered my diagnosis from my understanding of why this vessel is. [[The president calls.]] I thought I offered that diagnosis quite well.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u60	A respectable president. All right. This was shown in the talk "Wicked. " A senator felt the great need to promote health care in the country, not just the Land Hospital. Their proposal is just the Landspit and the Hospital in Akureyri. There's nothing else, no port, nothing for these infrastructures that we really need to build up, and we agree on the need to do. I just want to ask you about the income team: Does he really think it's realistic that in 2016 we'll reach 4 billion by improving tax control and 3 billion more fishing costs? We know that hunting costs have been submitted in August. Hunting costs for next year's fish, up until September, pay off in November. [[The president calls.]] Although we were about to raise them, we have only two months before the next year. Are you going to hit $3 billion in the last two months?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u61	A respectable president. Of course, the answer is: Yes. If I didn't, I wouldn't stand up to these suggestions. Of course it's also a political document. We're telling us how we'd like to do this. We've said that and we've been consistent throughout the season when we say we wanted to make a billion dollars from what was scheduled for fishing. True, their composition would need to be adjusted, and we are ready to share wholeheartedly in it. We thought that it was absolutely realistic to keep what was expected. [[Take it up, you do it...]] This is our policy and it is reflected in this document. We have also always talked about putting more money in tax research because we feel that there is a noisy field there, so to speak. I'd like to give you an example. I've talked about it, and others, that big corporations in Iceland, a very large international company, are coming from a profit in Europe's tax industry. I am amazed at why the government and the Ministry are not investigating this matter much better than the rest of the nations are doing. [[The president calls.]] That's where we're getting our feet, and that's billions of dollars, yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u62	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for a fine speech in which he met the nature of the matter according to the end of a big matter, a whole financial bill. I listened attentively to the subject "what." A member of the state of health care committee, and I felt that the senator was doing much good there, discussing these matters with knowledge. It was fun listening to it. The senator also spoke extensively about his disappointment that no more was placed in the entrance right now. I take my heart to the disillusionment of the senator. So the senator threw it to the government why it was the case. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: Why does he really think this is so? We haven't exactly got answers from the highest. Government on this, but why does it hold a sledgehammer? A senator not to be put into the wood? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u63	A respectable president. I appreciate the question. As I explained in my talk, it is a mystery to me. I don't quite understand this carelessness. I can't call it that. This is careless. I find it reckless to go completely out of my way to cancel an investment plan that had been approved here. It wasn't changing, it was changing the emphasis, or something like that, it was just canceled, e.g. dropped the investments in the infrastructure of tourism, which was obvious to have to attack. What game is this? Is this an image of a very bad politics, perhaps Polish, 1916, when they said, "If we do this, it's us who decide it? Is this something like that? We're not going to do anything the last government decided to do. We're going to do this by pushing it into the budget. I don't know exactly what's going on. And then I think it's also a measure of gossip, as in the case of not being able to deliver a transport plan when it is obvious that it is one of the biggest challenges facing us. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u64	V.E.G. President. I don't really understand it either. There's another thing I want to talk to you about. A senator in my second stand. He did not, in fact, bring it into his speech. I know, though, that this is a matter of reason. A senator is interested in matters that are disabled. This is discussed in the opinion of a greater part of the past. The legal committee as well as in the minority opinion of 2 memory and expected for more people. That's the question of funding. Companys have called for more funding into the group of litigation, but they do not take place in these suggestions. This was shown in the case of a man. Hauksdóttir Hukksdóttir, president of the budget board, has had discussions between state and rural society. [[The president calls.]] Do I agree with the senator that we need to get it straight if we need to get more money in before this discussion on the budget bill is over?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u65	A respectable president. I completely agree with that, and thank you. A senator for bringing up this case. It's true that I couldn't go to all the lawsuits in my speech, but this is very important. This is also only to what I was talking about, that, among other things, local societies have to be listened to when they say that money is not enough. Then either one must reason on a statement or do something about it. I think most people can see that this is right, that there's more money to the jury. It is obvious that too little money was set out for the countryside during the transfer. I think it's very important to insist that there is a payment of funds. So I encourage people not to always take NAPA out of parentheses in this. MPA is just one resource, a very practical option. It is far less expensive than comparable resources in the sheep market, and much better when it comes to ensuring an independent life for disabled people, and it is only to be contained in this package, financed as it does other things. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u66	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a fine speech. He's talking about investment policies. When we won it during our last term, we worked very hard and picked up a lot. After we set up the policy, both the subjects and how to finance it, we still said, "We're going to take care of the money. " We are not going to go into debt to go on those projects. Now it has been found that the plan for investment was a tremendous sum of money. Looking back at the end of 2015, we will see. We also wanted to use the relaxation in the economy to make such an investment. It's not just a lame political bitch, cutting off investmentism, it seems to me it's actually harmful. Now the excitement is high, we can't attack these investments, and we'll probably spend a long time between Greece and Mexico in investments in the health system. [[The president calls.]] I want to ask you why. A senator of his opinion on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u67	A respectable president. That's exactly what I'm talking about. It was the right time just before the rise began with such a powerful force that was good for those investments. Now we are watching a very big business investment, including In a room, and large investments at Húsavík, at Bakka. A follow-up with the budget bill directly says that it will have an effect, that rural society will, for example, have to be held in hand because of the effects of dexterity. Yeah, that's obviously very bad politics. If you think about it further, that we go through this upcoming time, I don't talk about if we don't do business or anything like that and then experience another crash in some way, hopefully not as dramatic as the last one, you can ask: What will we have the investment need to invest? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u68	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. This was about the investments, but we also need to examine our institutions, such as the Land Hospital. Of course, there are lower amounts of money. Wouldn't it have to be asked that before tax losses are approved this year, tax losses that cost 5.5 billion in 2016 and another 5.5 billion in 2017, and the tax reductions made last year, what service the inhabitants lose against such taxes? They're what they were. Councilmen who agreed to this and will probably agree to a simpler but unjust tax system has failed to answer that question. Were they to agree that no more would be placed in the Land Hospital, that the elderly and the poor would be left behind, etc.? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u69	A respectable president. First only about the previous answer, the one with the plan for investment that had been fully financed, yes, it was found just one amazing moment in the Senate's vote, when money came in, interest paid by the bank, and carried almost unconcerned and unafraid to the incredible operation, the debt of the government. The whole coin slipped there in a totally self-sustaining operation, which is all I know is broiling. Although I am an amateur for tax reductions and prefer to be a society that does not weigh its subjects too much, I do not experience it so that the light at the end of the tunnel after the great tribulation following the collapse should appear in the form of tax doctors. When there's a substantial improvement in the labour market and a high level of growth in employment, the tax reductions are badly timed. [[The president calls.]] The need for this money to meet the up - to - date budget for many of the important institutions is more obvious and would have to be met first.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u70	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. However, I don't think that he can be very disappointed that people will experience his speech that is not particularly bright. He speaks a lot about coming out of the mail deliveries, but most kindly, I would like to show him that few speakers have as many telegram messages as they do. Senator. Yet, I commend him for his left - handed behavior. In the case of health care, those in the administrative body who have spoken here have increased understanding of mixed financing and a variety of business practices. I don't have time to discuss it on the depth, but hopefully we'll have a chance to discuss health issues ever since. He talked about interviewing in my last term, which I don't know, I don't know what. A senator is talking, but I was at the council then, in a position of government. He spoke of the consultation work being done in the EU. Hv. A senator, if you apply for participation in the EU it is a set policy and it takes no thinking people into the EU except to join in the EU. [[The president calls.]] I ask, " How can that be a consultation project? '
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u71	A respectable president. I'd like to try, perhaps with a weak mind, to be perfunctory in my politics, but if I've been guilty of some kind of telegrams in the heat of the game, I apologize for that. Hv. A senator asks for a consultation assignment to apply for membership in the EU. I think there's a big difference between my attitude and my attitude. Senator. I will consider the question, Should we become members of the EU as a question to which the nation is to take sides on the basis of the best information? That's the procedure, making a deal and getting it on the table. And then I would probably speak for the fact that we joined together on the basis of this contract because I believe that it will be good. Others speak against it. It's called democracy and consultation, and I think it's part of the vessel I traced and explained in my speech, people have been disbarred of the right to take their stand on this big case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u72	A respectable president. I think there's something wrong with this, right? Because the wrong information has been kept to people. I claim that no nation, according to European nature, had politicians who dare to deceive people in this way. Everyone knows what it means to be in the EU. We've made a very good assessment of it. The EU exists and no nation has applied for EU membership to explore what is going on. Icelandic politicians and even the educational community who want to go to the EU have a ruthless attitude toward people. I encourage you to try to explain to foreigners that we have applied for participation in the EU to find out what was available. What we did was that we changed the law, we went into the review report to see exactly what was required of us to do. We had to schedule how we were going to do it to get into this process. Then they allow themselves to come up here -- there's no doubt that this is a vessel that is here because people are then told: You're being taken over right, they're the politicians who don't dare say what it means to be in the EU and tell them why they want to join the EU. [[The president calls.]] There is a discussion that we should take, not fool people in the way you are now doing it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u73	A respectable president. I think it's interesting what's wrong. A senator is immune to the precarious thinking for which he is obviously a spokesman. He comes here and says that it is clear what is involved in the EU, probably because he has come to some conclusion about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u74	...reports.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u75	I have read these reports and have come to the conclusion that EU membership is good for Icelanders. [[The point is, wasn't it...?]] [[Yeah, tell me about it.]] I've said that in a lot of speeches, exactly. [[That.]] Is it not then just a very active and beautiful democracy and a conversation that is supposed to take place in the community as to which argument the people want to listen?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u76	Of course.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u77	Isn't it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u78	Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u79	Then why don't we finish this? What's complicated about this? Are we really going to cancel this consultation process because you feel that you have concluded that we are not to be involved in the EU? [[It's not...]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u80	This is not a consultation process, this is a member's course.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u81	Wait, the people will decide on the basis of a contract and not you, not me and you -- [[You're bluffing.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u82	Sounds in the audience.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u83	Not me and you will decide, but the people.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u84	Exactly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u85	It would be good for you to adopt that kind of political approach.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u86	It's part of the process. You are deceiving people, and you cannot take up the EU discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u87	[[To the point, this is awesome.]] It's fun to do this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u88	A respectable president. Iceland's government is well supported, but it is so strong that the government does not seem to support its own ministers. In any case, it has been that way for many months. A minister of education, Illugi Gunnarsson, has been trying to achieve a case through the government that it does not even support him personally. The head of the Independence Party has set up a budget committee and announced to the council that his minister, Minister of the Independence Party, Illugi Gunnarsson, will deliver a bill at this fall council for a continuous radio fee. It is now November 30, and the Council's work programme is out of date, and there is no bill here. You must ask, a respectable president: Is it not time for the government to consider its position when not only the people of the country have stopped supporting it but rather that they have stopped supporting themselves and have stopped giving back the bills they themselves have been calling here for the council?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u89	President. That's what I'm talking about. A senator mentioned here I previously mentioned in the Senate Hall that it is absolutely clear that the highest. The Minister of Education and Culture would have the support of a platoon of Left Green in setting up the matter on schedule, paying for it, granting the necessary variations, and then helping them through votes and to the end. We're in a hurry. It is natural for the democracy to have more of the council in charge of these matters as well as of others. But it is a serious approach to the situation if a matter that truly has a greater part of the chamber cannot be made out of the government because of some kind of power struggle or injuring certain Ministers. I have to agree with the opinion that there is a serious position in government when hand backwork has become such that a ministerial minister announces that there is a problem that then does not appear and that there is no explanation about which tensions or power struggles are behind them. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u90	President. In my first talk about the next year's budget bill, I did a little detail about the perspective that has been in the debate on the part of the council and those who have largely won the budget bill, i.e. It's a budget and the Committee to Prefect Funds. I reasoned and traced to the very least that it would have been not exactly a magnificent career and not a magnificent performance but by the heads of the budget committees, as well as by those who are leading the government the best in the last few days and who have lost in any strange conversation with their people, which is more and less about to abuse people in magazines, as Prime Ministers do today in the most useful and humiliating article in the News magazine to one person. I think it is a single thing in the history of this nation that a minister of the government, I speak of prime minister, as I used in my first speech, the manner of the conduct of certain senators, council officials and financial committees, is toward large institutions and heads and staff, who have become widely known how they have been. All of this is very strange. All of this has damaged the General Assembly. I don't like the view of the Generals. This is bordering on violence. People who run institutions and institutions of the community don't know what they're going to expect when it comes to the government. There is no confidentiality there any longer. I also traced it in my first speech how ambitious this budget is in terms of government funds, to present this fourth year in a series of budgets, and to hope that budgets will be on the right side of zero, almost at zero next year - out of 700 billion dollars. Let's go to zero next year, I hope, as long as government funds get paid from the Bank of the Lands. That is, I don't think, an example of such an ambitious financial bill in modern times. The greater part's concern is to provide some form and a clue to the attitude of the members of the board, i.e. The members of the government's staff and members of the Parliament, for everything goes through councils for approval, for demonstrations, for the budgets, and for the classes they have discussed, and for which they can handle the projects they have taken, and for which they are to be on behalf of the council and are involved. The figure for the greater part is, in my opinion, one of the most strange documents that has been placed before the Council in the great Lord's day. It is so lame that even if it is forced to do so, it is hardly acceptable to take it for granted or for discussion. First of all, it's full of obvious misdeeds that I hope to be fixed. All I expect is for people to treat themselves and the council and the nation to offer a text that is at least right and to be supported by accurate information. The text simply contains errors in many places where I will trace them. Second, the Commission's view of government is that it should be set free. The discipline of government funds should be released, cut loose, gone in the same old way that was over the years and decades under the same category of government funds and souls in an unassigned manner in the most unlikely way, without any particular evidence, or according to plans or panels. I'm going to go over some of the committee party items. The first page of paragraph 2 says, by permission of the president: It is most enjoyable that the government's income is increasing, and the third year in a row is headed for a smooth state business. In order to improve donations for basic services, a new increase has been made. [...] there is no country to start subsidies and interest costs continue to be the third most paid case [...] In view of the greater portion, there is therefore every reason to maintain the remuneration side of the budget... What does this tell us? What does this text tell us? The administrative point, written by this text, is almost surprising that the government's income is growing. Were they expecting something else? Was there any other plans? Were there any predictions that our income might be reduced? Of course, income increases. Of course, they should increase. The tax stocks are growing, the job life is growing, and the tax system was adjusted to earn a normal income at the time. Of course it is. Yet, this text emphasizes that there is still a long way to start subsidies and reach interest costs. Why is it so far off now? Four years after the state's budget was returned at zero, it is still far off in the country, with a greater part of the budget and the administrative sector that debt can be paid and the cost of growth, which is the primary objective and has been the primary objective of managing the state funds from collapse. This calls for an answer from government officials. This is a declaration of complete in ambition and impotence in the management of a government fund, which is supposed to be a relatively easy work now in relation to what has happened before. The first page of this committee article describes concern over the development of legal cases when adopted regulations that are burdensome for rural society or largely increasing market monitoring without the same financial support. The list of committees says, with permission of the president: It can be found on transport policies, development programs, and ports. Let us see. What discussion is there on transport policy in this bill? To be honest, I've read this article several times, and I've seen it in the past few days or since it was submitted. There is no policy in this document. There is nowhere to find transport policies in the Committee to cover the rest of the sector. If it's to be found somewhere, I wish those who know where it is should come up here and tell me where the policy is. It is about to place some money on transport in a highly disorganized and unassigned way, simply because there is no plan. There is no transport plan. There is no government plan on building roads, roads, bridges, airports, or harbors. It should only be done according to the way the country lies on the day when a person goes to work on a financial committee. There's no plan, no policy. The same is true of docks. There are 400 million on 11 projects, very undefined, without logical support, and without any strategy for building up. There's a million people here and a million that seem to be by the way political lines exist. A strategy for development. Let us take a closer look. What do people mean by that? The General Assembly agreed to the conference resolution on Iceland's international development team in 2013. It was scheduled for 2016, i.e. The next year of budgeting, about which this bill should be discussed. There's nothing to tell about it here. Where is this policy? Where is it to be found? Can we see it, or is it just in some void where people can grasp what they feel is convenient for them? The conclusion was adopted at the General Assembly by all paid votes against one, the vote of the current chairman of the budget board. She was the only senator who voted against a strategy for development assistance on the part of the council. It says why this incompetent bad text is in the committee's opinion. The Conclusion adopted by the General Assembly requiring the implementation of a time-separated program for the development of proposals during the time period, i.e. To 2016. Next year, i.e. Thus, the financial year we are discussing would be 0.42% of the population's spending on development. In this opinion, and in the proposals of the government and the administrative sector, we speak of a half lower number, 0.21%. As is said of policy and a major outlet attack in development aid. In the opinion of the committee, a very strange text is designed to try to justify the carelessness and demorality of not being able to fulfill the synopsis that the Council held behind, by permission of the president: The ◯Mei part shows that the ratio has not been calculated correctly - i.e. The proportion of national income - ◯ where a large proportion of payments for trustrs should be classified as development aid. If correctly calculated, Iceland's share is about 0.25% of national income and even higher if the development fund of EFTA involved in refugees is included. What do these people think about developing help? But the people who wrote this text and offered these suggestions here suggest that they can just choose what is developing help, and they can just say, "No, that's not accurate? " They can just take some assignment into development and say, "Now we're just raising it to 0.25% - why not 30? Do these people think that it is possible to accept just some chosen assignment? There is a definition behind what is development aid. As long as she can't make it. If there is something else that we want to add, there is another matter. Men cannot just decide on the Committee of the Parliament's budget what to help or what to do. There's no choice. It's a definition of that internationally recognized definition of which Iceland is committed. It's as simple as that. Then we are talking about half the amount paid by the citizens of the nation to assist in the development of the next year - the arrangement adopted here in 2013 by the council, with one principle.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u91	Now say your name.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u92	- I already said a name. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, chairman of the budget board, opposed the development aid and the synopsis. I pointed out that when a senator entered the hall, it may be the reason for this strange text, his intention was to choose what was a development aid. There's no choice. [[Up front.]] Evolution aid is very clear. [[Up front.]] That is true of all nations and Iceland, and there is nothing that can choose a special assignment, or members of Congress whether they are named Vigdís Hauksdóttir, Guðlaugur Þórðarson, or Björn Valur Gíslason, can change that definition. This is what all the nations will do, and the contributions will depend on them. It is a disgrace that members of the Trustees of the Council of the Parliament go so far and, in fact, acknowledge their misdeeds to the developing business that they try to fill in the quota with some undefined and unrelated subject matter. [[Up front.]] Why don't they make up more? Why don't they count other factors to raise the number? There's a question of who the development aid is supposed to be. It's in the budget bill who she is. There is a definition of what development aid is. It does not mean putting something into a text like that of the committee's opinion in an effort to change it. Mistakes, I'm going to start by calling them mistakes because I think they're mistakes, they're in many parts of the bill. I'll give you two, and even though they're not big, they're indicating what kind of waste layer is behind work on the committee's opinion. First of all, the State Radio. It says, by permission of the president: The more important thing is to note that next year, the Kingdom News ohf is expected. to make money on the basis of radio fees, as was always expected when the current government began to operate. Then there is an evil error, which I expect to be corrected and printed. In time, the government decided to pay the price of a sensitivity of 16,400 dollars. on each person or carer There's been a mistake. You've read the wrong dates and numbers in this regard. Somehow this has escaped through a lecture and forgotten to correct, which, of course, needs to be done. The change in donations for Our Public Radio was adopted at the General Assembly on December 20, 2013, due to budget 2014. Then it was decided to lower the radio charge to 16,400k. The proposal paid its vote to all the existing members of the board of directors who were then in the hall, including the members of a budget board. They dropped the radio charge, but no one else did. We're in a hurry. This is absolutely available from all viewpoints. As I said, I really hope this is going to be corrected. I'm going to assume that this isn't deliberately done, that it's not deliberate error, but that it's made a mistake in the textmaking process, and it's just going to be corrected. For another text, which must have been classified as a mistake, and it has somehow escaped through the eye of a master reader of the committee's leading body, see page 5. 9. There's a very strange text that I also expect to be corrected for the printing of the document. It says, by permission of the President: It has been a good partnership with the governor of the Land Hospital in recent years. This must be a mistake. This must be a copy of another text, perhaps since the last term, which has been accidentally taped in there, and no one realizes that these are the worst misdemeanors that are out of place in this committee party. I intend again to assume that this is a mistake rather than a deliberate lie, for it has not been overlooked by the nation, not by any human being, how cold has been in dealing with a panel and a government with the governor of the Land Hospital. In the past, there have been no good relations, good manners, or conduct, either on the part of members of Congress or on the minister, as we see in the media today. Of course, I hope that this will be corrected and corrected when the document is printed. Then there are dozens of pages I thought were leaving the budget board's work where money is being divided into so - called museums by undefined methods. It is totally disorganized and illogical, entering the past as it was here a few years ago and decades ago. These same groups can't accept it at least Not the advance group, I haven't heard the answer why the Independence Party makes this happen, that the state is run within some framework of the rules, and that there is some discipline on how money is handled. It's impossible for them to live this life, and it's likely to belong to members of that party, i.e. In this case, the parties, their entire political lives, are being able to organize public funds in the way that is being done here, and they were most widely known. Why the Independence Party lets itself be this way is incomprehensible to me. This is not in the spirit that independents have spoken in recent years and decades and the government they want on the money. The answer must be answered. A respectable president. In my opinion, this opinion of the committee is hardly deemed acceptable. It's so evil, so full of misdeeds, there's such a great statement about ambition and inability to control government money that it was best to request that it be called back to the committee, it corrected, disintegrated at least, and they tried to put a little more work on it before it came back to the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u93	President. Hv. A senator here spoke of a transport policy that was not found in the Committee opinion, but in the first part of the bill on policy and outlooks, he has found a section on it. That is in relation, as I interpret, to public shopping and electronic administrations that are involved in telecommunications. I think it's a means of communication and transportation. Perhaps in this respect, I feel that there is good policy in the country's light - leading system. But on the other hand, that's right, there's nothing to be found about or anything like that except professionally in this fancy direction and outlook. It was also a little too. A senator mentioned the development cooperation that I would like to focus on. If he could briefly review that seminary from his speech, it would be nice to accept it if I had been misheard.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u94	A respectable president. That's right, it's shown in the budget bill, policies and outlooks in a number of cases. It's just a whole different thing, a different thing. A person can describe a course and look at specific matters, such as why. A senator mentioned, by means of fiber optics, et cetera. Which is just the best thing. But there's no plan, no plan in progress. The same is done on roads and docks. There is a side of roads here and a pier there, without any complete details on how to build a road system, a rejection system, or a pilot's fortress in the country. It's called a transport program. She needs to work after her, for it is professionally done for those outside the council, trying to plan best so that there will be some partnership between the two of them each year and the year. Thus, transport and transportation are to be built up as it is supposed to be done. Not that it is by chance, who is on the budget at any time. It just doesn't work. It's a bad government and a waste of public money. In the case of the development community it is so simple that Iceland is obliged to contribute 0.7% of the nation's income to development support. We haven't. Never. But we want to get close. That's what the Congress said. We want to do it. We are going to reach this goal within a certain period of time. 0.42% next year was approved at the General Assembly. If I remember correctly, it was time to go to 0.42 and 0.7% 2019 and 2020 according to plan. From now on, it's gone, absolutely. This conclusion is ignored, and it is attempted to reevaluate the concept of development. That's totally in the way. It is a recognized international definition of what development aid is. You can't just do some job that they want to do and raise the percentage. This government is fighting like so many others. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u95	President. Thanks for the answer. I agree with what. A senator that's missing his policy exactly. Although money is placed in airports and ports, it is a simple, seemingly undirected operation. So it is impossible to predict what will happen in the next budget considering what is happening now. As for the development of development and development support for development, I understand that assistance to refugees in the first one, two years is considered to be a developing job. That's what I only cut off and could be the misunderstanding I had originally heard. If this were possible, it would be appreciated.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u96	A respectable president. As defined by the definition of development, development aid is a transfer of income from people in one country to another, designed to reduce poverty in the country of reception, to increase economic growth, and to promote evolution. This is the simple definition of development support. This is what we planned for 0.7% of participation in the defenses of national income. We can't get away with it, except inside the board of directors, to raise that number by throwing something else in there. It's not recognized, it's so simple, it's so clear. But we can. We can put money on something else, but it does not fit in this internationally accepted definition that we are committed to. If the members of Parliament who are responsible for this document think they can deceive the international community and other countries by some such exercise, it will not work out. You can't do that even if you want to do it. That's not all random, except for the transport plan of this document. Here is an excellent suggestion for building a 2.3 billion building at the General Assembly, according to a 100 - year - old drawing of a living dormitory to a completely different location. What kind of bullshit is this? Who can think of this? Yes, it is the prime minister of the country who beat it against the fact that here is a title in a Senate document that it builds a house of 2,3 billion at least according to a 100 - year - old drawing of dormitory. Because he's interested. There is also a text in this document that suggests that there is a suggestion about 50 million. K. a donation to ensure that the University of Bifrost does not arrive next year. It's a private school. I don't see that kind of language on Land Hospital. It's a public institution.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u97	President. We'll discuss budgets for 2016 and we'll discuss the 2nd. The matter, and it's been going through for a few hours. I'd like to give my talk to some material from the changes we make in the smaller parts but also some issues that have been high in political discussions in the past few days and in recent weeks, the political differences and opinions that are most prominent in the discussion these days that are elderly and desperate, the Land Hospital of University Hospital and the Kingdom News. However, I would like to start this speech by briefly discussing the political situation, for the financial bill of the day is the largest political bill of every council and the largest political document of every government. In some cases it has been said that a government will stand and fall with its budget, for it presents the actual emphasis of the times. Now it is so that in this budget bill not only is reflected in political emphasis but also also more emphasis on the practicality and practices of which I would like to do so, before I discuss materially what the bill holds and the proposed changes made to the smaller segments, to kill lightly on the lessons that the General Assembly intended to draw with a controversion on the case of the World Council Report on September 28, 2010. There, all 63 of us were then members of the General Assembly of the Icelanders and were authorized to do so by voters, a political resolution to the General's report on the 2010 General Assembly. The conclusion of the General Assembly was that of the largest economic and political tragedy in Iceland during the republicry season. The Allied Research Committee published a series of reports on the conduct and cause of the fall of the Icelandic banks in 2008 and related events, but the World Council made a big difference because in these days, many of us were doing so in our political existence, just as a nation would like to look inside and learn a lesson from what was going on and do better. The Senate concluded that it is important for the General to defend and strengthen his independence and a fundamental role. That's one of the things in it. It also shows that there will be serious criticism of Icelandic politicians and emphasis on the fact that they will draw lessons from them. Finally, the Allied Council concludes that the report of the II Parliamentary Committee is a judgment against governments, politicians and administration, to work, and a lack of formality. The general concluded that it is important for everyone to look at their own work and to take advantage of the opportunity that the report offers to improve society. President. I'm convinced that when we then sat at the Generals voted for this, we did it because we sincerely wanted to change politics and focus on Iceland as to what this was all about. We wanted to strengthen the role of the Generals, and we wanted to improve the procedure. We wanted to increase our formality, and we wanted to look at our own actions in a critical way. It's been five years since the Allied Congress approved this resolution. Why am I going over her now? That is because of the how screaming the fact that the present government has largely ignored this parapolitic total collapse five years ago that was supposed to be our greatest lesson in the economic collapse. It is not only that it is our feeling as participants and observers that the Icelandic government is making a major decline in political emphasis but also also in a way in what we wanted us to be after a collapse, it is so when you begin to review data, whether it is the General Study Report, the Constitution, or the other promises of economic failures, that all of them are put together in the melancholy fact that the current administrations have not become a failure, such as it has not produced a number of volumes of events and causes of failures, such as the World Congress has not agreed to reexamine their work, strengthening efforts, and reevaluating all of these things, have not been a bad dream. All the time since the establishment of the Icelandic republic, the Independence Party has been in the government, all terms in part or in total, except the last terms. The reality is that what is critical, and it shows in the General's study report, and then in our common Congress, there is mainly work, practice, political morality, and priorities of the National Independence Party, which have suffered losses and hail, and govern the community and its development. In fact, it is so strong that this root of the power in Icelandic politics that it comes from the bowels of a number of members of the Independence Party and talks that we, who have temporarily been in the Council of Government with full authority from the democratic General, are really to be ashamed of it. We are, in effect, ashamed that our heads had the keys to the Board of Directors for four years. That has actually been a mistake and a misunderstanding because Iceland is to be governed by the Independence Party and the group that is ready to support it, which is now the forward party. Historically, whether it is the Allied Party at its time or at the forward stage, it is this way that the Independence Party has gradually disappeared into the Independence Party with regard to emphasis and political content. In fact, it has been so strong that both the forward party back then and the Allied Party had its success that they almost lost everything. It is happening now with the forwarding party, and even it is clear to political critics that the forwarding party is in part right-sided than the Independence Party itself. If the tea movement in the United States has any company, it's partners on the right side of the forward party today. Of course, this team of progressives and independence party hoped that these grainers, Sigmundur the son of Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson, and Bjarni the son of Benediktsson, the highest. Both of them, when they took control of a handsome press conference in Lake Lava, would you be taking along some fresh stream? They would bring with them some unexpected vision, modern technology, an understanding that there had been an economic, political, and social failure in so many respects. But what happens? The Declaration of the Government of the forwarding party and of the Independence Party include much text, including the U.S. A promise to activate the interfaith power of the nation and to counteract the divisive and suspiciousness that has characterized Icelandic politics and discussions in society for some time. It says that progress and improved standard of living in Iceland was based on cooperation and cohesion and for the future the Icelanders will continue to work together on the basic work of society. Two and a half years later, there is an amazing deal of excitement in Icelandic society. There are large groups in the community who complain bitterly about their lack of understanding, about their heart, about their humiliation, and about their lack of listening. These two young men, the leaders of a forwarding party and an independent party, practice and practice the politics that men would have been doomed by or would have been shamed in the middle of the last century. It's interesting when it shows up such an entire adjustment proposal to a bill for 2016 that actually exposes this reality. There is a new proposal from a greater portion of the budget board, where he will contribute funds at General County. It's not a big number in the whole context, it's a small number, 75 million. K. There's something you can do for her, but it doesn't change anything in the big movie. But what is said in the text with the adjustment form, by permission of the president: ▪ When preparing a project, the plans for building in the General Assembly for the Republic of 1918 shall be taken into consideration, as shown in the current plans for the Goddjónson of Samúelsson, the former architect of the State, and the plans for memorial events related to Iceland's upcoming anniversary of the Common Age should be taken into consideration. President. This text is not from Jónas frá Hrifla. This text is rooted in the mind of a prime minister who stands in his 40's and is chairman of the Prosecution Party. [[Up front.]] This text, so innocuous as it is, accurately reflects the fact that the forwarding party and the Independence Party and the power alliances they represent almost all the time of the republic are actually about to feel that you are entitled, justified in power, independent of authority, and not even having to consider that we were going to draw conclusions and learn from the economic breakdown. What is this other than a poor type of work and a lack of formality? What is this other than that the Council rejoices in their independence and its basic role in the hands of people who allow themselves to use the terms of government money as a playground for their own personal interests, which mar millions and billions into drawers in their plots to release their dreams of rebuilding a house by the son of Samúelsson? It's crazyer than any man would ever know that we'd be stuck with such a boss in Iceland, just like we do today. Only when it comes to communication. Legal committees with government officials, designated institutions, and society, all in words and deeds. There I can make good use of professional knowledge, and I may have a background in grammar, and I enjoy text analysis and reviewing people's language and wording, their method of presentation, and the theme of the discussion. When you look at the surface and the development in this regard, you become aware that present more things have taken on a very clear style. In effect, the forward movement was the main force behind it, the issue of independence followed closely, but the forwarding party has repeatedly said that there was never anything like it and what is now taking place in the present government. Never. It refers to the period of the republic, the past few decades, referred to in history. The terms "aldörrei, " ◯ Always since then, are widely used, as well as as at the speeds of the day, as well as at the speed of the day. In his own example, the prime minister makes it easy for us today to write an article that sets in just what he understands about life and life. In fact, I'm sure that not all members of the council are aware of the degree of a turning point. The prime minister is creating a political debate in Iceland with this expression on his own fineness, personal expertise, and a government that is actually breaking in writing such as writing in history books, not just in Iceland, but in the whole world, the former government has also been a disaster in every way. In fact, there was nothing intelligent about it, and it even went so far that the last government was worse than the economic collapse. So did prime minister. On the other hand, those who have asked him in question periods or in the media or how it all has been conducted have been historically stupid, wrongfully wronged, misunderstood every ground so that prime minister has not been able to take time to discuss the matter materially because he has been so overwhelmed by the scandal over the average amount of exposure to all the questions raised in the public inquiry period. Then comes this article that's great today, and maybe it's a world record, and I can't figure it out. It may be a new world record, at least one example, on the whole of Iceland. At the very least, I don't recall a few hours of prime minister, but since I remember thinking about politics, I've been putting myself down to write an article to a head person. I don't recall that it happened. It's a joke, it's a joke like high school, it's a little bit of a joke, and it's like a tape text. But that may be the case. In this article, a prime minister who has at times talked to radical reason met himself and might tell me that if we were in a field or in an Outback contest, the answer would be obvious if someone asked: "Who is described as this? " ▪ Schoolers are not easily distracted by facts or futures. For them it is the first thing to be a man of the present, the one who keeps his attention, and to be popular among the gullibility for a time. Others can cope with the consequences. Who's that supposed to mean? By permission of the president, from the same article: Furthermore, every time he accepted the word, it was out of pride and indicated that everyone other than him was an idiot. I'm going to have a Senate after being able to do the gaps with who it is that first comes to mind when you read that profile. Toppar, says the top. Prime Minister, who is responding to a newspaper article yesterday in Kári, Stefánsson's son. In such cases, the prime minister would find it appropriate to speak in discriminately about such a serious matter as the financial status of the Land Hospital. You may wonder, " Is Páll the Matthíasson of Matthua, president of the Land Hospital, the prime minister's highest, and others who have made comments on financial matters and understanding and the lack of understanding of the legal committee? ' Is it in this way at this time to provide the director of the Land Hospital, such as this most important part of the world has come to understand how to cope with all criticism? With some kind of stamping that the person is, if he is not the top, the word of the day, to cry, or to be a populist, or to resort to harassment, political harassment, or even spiritual violence at the most. President. The issues that exist in general public discussions these days are the cases of older ones and desperate people. Yesterday, an open meeting was held in a financial committee involving the older citizens' union and the Scaring Alliance after any trouble, where a majority of the legal committees agreed to maintain this open meeting as normal as were the requirements for these groups involved in getting their recovery, in line with the rest of the Icelandic environment. There were a number of events in community discussions when the majority of them all made the changes in the share's budget to raise these improvements backtimely to May 1, could be March 1, and realized that two things have happened since then. First of all, there has been a paper that is used by the head of the board to bring it up to the pocket to answer all the points presented in these topics. These documents contain percentages and billions of readings and waiting, and the result is that these groups actually received more than everyone else, and some have gone so far as to say that at least these groups had enough. This reading of 1 percent and billions does not refer to external context in any way. It is not spoken of as the increase in volume or growth in both groups. Rather, it is made up of the vast numbers read up. But the matter is much simpler than this. It's just a matter of justice that this group is not left alone. It is often referred to in 2009, and then it is so tasteful for independence and forwarders to talk as in 2009 that it was just a normal year in Iceland history, completely ordinary, and nothing special then was being done except for a completely unusual evil and malicious government that had been at the top of its magazine to do ill to the elderly and desperate. These groups have been chosen for something nice, and then they just showed up and started to kill those who should be least in the community. This is the lawsuit of the greater part. Nothing special about this year. They find themselves comparing the position of the 2009 community with the position that exists today and with open eyes. Hv. paritaprevir Hermaphs the Brynjar of Níelsson made quite a presentation, former president of the legal club. When the one standing here called out: "Didn't this place have a financial breakdown? " Then they said what. Senator: I wasn't talking about it. You see, it is. There was nothing to talk about. But this is in context and the situation in 2009 was about saving Iceland from losing economic independence. We took over almost a collapse of state funds, 120 billion dollars. A tilt that had to be taken in the middle of the year, and every Icelander went under the yoke, every institution, every government worker, every member of Congress, and certainly every invalid and every pensioner. Thanks to all these people, Iceland is still on its feet. But what is the situation today? Now, people are beating their breasts at the fact that Iceland is on a big fly, although government funds are still on their way to zero, and they haven't paid off debts yet. Iceland's flying a lot. It's economic growth, unemployment is low, all our economics are as much as we want it to be, pay is raised, and what do we do? The poor and the elderly are part of the community. These groups are part of the overall picture, and when society is all out, these groups are also going to be on the rise. They should be part of their recovery. Between 2009 and 2015 is a shameful comparison. Perfectly. I expect 3rd. Funds will be provided, hopefully in cooperation with any member of the council, a adjustment proposal that allows the U.S.A. to reevaluate whether or not to support back - ups to the elderly and desperate. Hv. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson says this morning at the Wave: We've lost this discussion altogether. And does he hate it? No, no, no. A senator says: I just wasn't on my toes. I didn't have all the information in front of me so I could stand up and explain my vote. There must have been more, for that evening, all of us were given information about the situation to the members of an independent party and a forward group. I don't like it, I just admit it. A respectable president. There's still time to go, it's still possible to influence this bad decision and turn it around. There these large groups are with us at the council, making this our proposal and also a large part of the nation in this important matter of interest that has been traced here. It's all about the highest bill being proclaimed. Secretary of Education and Culture for falling from a radio charge that someone will be waiting for that to happen. Then I'd like to explain, for it is both right and duty to do so, that we in the government opposition will expect to see to it that there will be an amendment on both the income and the charge sides of the bill so that the Council can take sides on the case if it is so hard to present the question to the General Assembly. It's only natural to do so. But at the same time, I think it is proper to point out that the committee and the other half have found themselves on page 30. 10 Simply false. In fact, it has gone so far as hell. The chairman of Vigdís Hauksdóttir budget committee has shocked others about lying from the Allellian speaker, based on this same benefit, even pointing to these lines as a very special and very reliable source of right and right, on its own text. [[Up front.]] But to be said in a talk, it is such that while in the Commission's list of parts and in repeated talks and answers to the chairman of the budget committee, it is claimed that the reduction of the radio rate at 16,400k. for the next New Year's Eve, the last government, that's not true. The decision was made on removing a bill to legalize a number of budgets in December 2013 prior to 2014, so to speak, is the responsibility of the current administrative sector. I ask for it, and I insist that, in fact, since the committee's opinion has been measured, there will be a why. At some point before the discussion ends, the chairman of a financial committee and corrected this misinformation in the members of the committee's list. The drawing back of this discussion is very important, and unfortunately, it is the top of the iceberg. This is not true in a committee party, and then a billion or 1,200 million falls in. K. yesterday that was forgotten. Apparently, there's a lot of pots broken at the job point. The legal committee and it was evident that the time was at hand. For the first and second, it was not enough to do at least this most privileged legal committee to do their job properly, to handle the committee's work properly, to handle matters properly and properly, for the first and second, to be careful to review the figures before the General Assembly reviews the issues. I'd like to mention two at the end. First, I would like to mention the digital language known as the fact that an Icelandic tongue is a palace. She is in trouble, and under this, dozens of scholars and analysts have taken over. What is more, at the Independence Party meeting, we attended the highest. The financial and economic ministers of Bjarni Benediktsson are under it, too. V.E.G. The minister of education and culture, on the day of the Icelandic language no more or less, also agreed that the next year's application of the Icelandic language would be okay. What we have in front of us is 30 million. K. On the budget bill, but we're making 170 million. K. In addition, to meet the best - known programs. I expect and believe that the more part has been overlooked, and people have forgotten it because there were such promises as so many other. Let us see what happens when we consider this particular matter, and perhaps we can have upbuilding conversations between the 2nd and 3rd. and it may be that the understanding of a minister of education is important if his words have some significance in the administrative part of these days. That's what you think of, given the position of the case that he is concerned about and that he sits in the government. We also propose to add funding to the climate fund, which is a unique fund, which occurred when climate law was adopted by the General, a special climate law that includes both parts of the EEA, i.e. The emissions-of-employment and commercial systems, as well as the outside of emissions and climate services in Iceland in general. According to that legislation, a treatment plan should be submitted to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by a number of years, as well as to the existing climate Fund as defined by the law. This treasure has been paralyzed by the present government. It has flowed into a government fund. We suggest that funding go to the climate fund, as well as to add a handsome budget to the green economy, which is a project that we agreed on here at 63 in the conference room to continue. It fell into the prime minister's drawer and then disappeared in the second year of the government, like so many other things. For example, a minister such as the Specialist Party and the Independence Party had a particularly bad bicker during all the events that had developed during the last term. In fact, it went so far as to have a corner in the pages of a project, such as the national parish program and that work because it had started in its last term, although it had been involved and was with all political parties in many parts of the country, rural and professional lives, and all of the best known. A respectable president. We are here to strengthen these matters because it is not enough to have 16 of the things that are developing in many areas of climate - related technology, because what we have in common with all the other societies in the world is to make sure that the growth of society is not at the expense of resources or at the expense of climate. In order for this to happen, the government needs to demonstrate its support of climate - related trends, and there we want to put our efforts into them. Finally we suggest, so I'm going to mention it to the complete ends, funding to respond to the great lands that have become visible in the community where the tolerance of sexual crime and sexual violence have spoken through certain revolutions, Beauty tips revolution and Free the nipple revolution and other such. A general body is completely out of contact with its community if it fails to respond to the fact that it is so complicated by serious projects that we need to react to the fact that we are serious about them. To this end, there is also a contribution. I've had my time, but what I'm going to make up for is that we can still reverse the bad trends of elderly and desperate age, land hospital, university hospital, and state radio. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u98	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his best speech. Hv. A member of the council only reviewed what is discussed in the crash report and entered the first part of his talk on the lessons we should have learned here. So I've wondered much about what authorities, and in fact, the public, learned after the collapse. So recently someone slipped in to me that the banking system had at least learned a few things, and I began to wonder about it. Yes, I suppose the banking system has learned that there can be a collapse, but I wondered if it is more responsible. The lesson may well be that when the storm clouds rise, they may be better able to escape, rather than float to the ground as before a crash. I wondered, " What is it? ' A senator envisioned the characteristics of the authorities, who would have taken the lesson of the crash seriously and learn something from it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u99	President. Of course, being reasonable does not mean that we have not learned anything from the collapse. I think we could actually mention some of the projects we've been doing here at the council and in the community that reflect such lessons. Because I have a very short time, just one minute, then I'm going to say one thing as quick as any. A senator knows well, and that is a review of foreigners. It's a job that got started with the highest power. the minister of the people, Birna the daughter of Kristjánsdóttir, who was of the parapolitic origin of all companies. That work was based on the work of the former government, based on the work of Ögmundur the son of Jónasson, and the bill available from his time, without throwing that job, with the approach of all classes, where they faced a very delicate and difficult group of subjects, while being careful to reach all the views of the table in an attempt to reach a common conclusion. That conclusion has been reached. This Council of Congress has been handed over to the highest level. The current Minister of the Interior Presidency. [[The president calls.]] I am excited that we will see that product because it will break down in writing at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u100	A respectable president. I think it's an interesting example. For my part, I view the problems as twofold. On the one hand, there is a certain political pedophile that is involved here as well as financial childliness. I still feel that there are a lot of political problems, especially when it comes to the relationship between the Generals and the state and the relationship between which I consider to be highly unnatural, as I have had in the past several times. But I wonder what. So a senator believes that any lesson that remains remains is political or economic. I suppose we'll soon agree to a public financial bill; actually, I think it's improving myself, I don't know what to do. A senator. But the political thing remains in my mind and in the light of an answer. I am interested in hearing more about whether the lessons are more political or economic, the remaining ones.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u101	President. I believe the Council actually reflects the social debate at any given time. When we're at the lowest level here at the General Assembly, we're active in comments. When we do well, talk, and discuss things, we are somewhere else, like many times in the community, where good, upbuilding, and reasonable things are being done. We're no more complicated than that. We're just as good and just as bad as we're going to be and we're going to walk in Iceland. I believe, however, that we've taken two steps forward after the crash, accepting a synonym that I passed over earlier. But what has happened since the last election is that we've slipped one step back.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u102	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I have had strong opinions about this changed practice, but I have returned to a financial committee, which is an expansion. It is true that a financial committee receives information, but we have been creating a competitive fund, a national parishion Program, a museum, and the rest, and these ways of handling money professionally and trying to look after equality. Hv. A senator knows this from his last term. The third sector is now spoken of as forgetting and appointing a Senate committee and perhaps going back to work in the last term. I understood that most members of a budget panel agreed to change. What does it say? A senator on this?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u103	President. I have listened especially to these comments at the moment. A senator who is regularly critical of his work, here at the General Assembly in general, and especially on a financial committee. That's what you're worried about. It's a comeback. This is where we return to the appeal of payment that it is acceptable for the legislature to meet its stakeholders in town and deliver a napkin that becomes some sort of interference with payment here at the General Assembly, which is naturally below all caves. We know we have processes, like what we have. A senator has mentioned, which would not be texting grants from the prime minister, nor a napkin by any other person, but is democratic, professional, and transparent processes; it is required, democratic, clear and professional. There are national conventions, there are tools available. We are also making sure that our rural communities receive the dignity they deserve. They've got experts, localists, people who know what they want to do, know how they want to establish priorities. [[The president calls.]] The level of government is not to be humiliated, so a budgetary committee is needed to convince it with some initiative to make sure that money is needed on a self-employed project.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u104	A respectable president. I agree that I feel very sad that an application plan was partially thrown off the table, or is in an image just compared to what was expected to be a great pleasure. But we have also experienced that the Ministers are directing matters to a financial committee or to the council, to the local hearings that we believe have been placed in the council and that this professional assessment should be done precisely. You wonder how we should then monitor that this will work as planned. Certainly there are people who have authority, let's say. Although a minister is responsible for the ultimate responsibility, it is also important to have contacts in the Ministry. That's why I might have wanted the administration more home in the province, to the countryside, to strengthen and strengthen them, so that not everyone may have to pick up everything here in Reykjavík.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u105	President. This is now a short time to discuss these issues that are very important to me. I myself was a director of the European Union, and I particularly resented the reality that my rural society had to go to the money - which they really need - in order to deliver more and less from public work and service to citizens - to the Generals. This is an amazing combination of power and communications from government ladders in Iceland, which is both waste of time, waste of human resources and money and all of this here. I agree that the parish plans are tools to capture this. But I'm also the opinion, and I think we should initiate this conversation with the European Union, that the National Association receives a clearer task and a clearer role which is, in fact, undefined now in the law. They are given various tasks here and there in the legislation, but there is nowhere in one place where national groups have defined and democratic roles toward the inhabitants of their territory and, in fact, have a position to set aside funds and priorities for the local people.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u106	A respectable president. I've said something to most people since then. the management of opposers who have spoken. It's a little hard to answer. Because all of this really worked out on her personal experience with the Independence Party and the forwarding party. A senator especially preoccupied with the highest. Prime Minister Davíð, Gunnlaugsson. At the same time, anyway. A senator that has not been truthful with the last government. I want to ask you why. A senator of two. First of all: Is it appropriate to have an aide, it is clear to all of us? A senator doesn't like the politician. paritaprevir Did Sigmundur Shimble Davíð of Gunnlaugsson? But all this: I've studied grammar, I've got a front card and something about the first legal committees. Is this exactly what we're talking about when we're talking about the budget? Isn't this more something we should talk about in a coffee shop? Then there's the other. In case of a moment. A senator feels that the last government has not been truthful, so why doesn't it review what has been done in the case of social security and what has been done in particular in the pension and the income insurance, the financial resources that have gone in it? [[The president calls.]] [[The noise of the council.]] Like what? A senator knows well what standards we take, these are very high amounts of tens of billions. I feel like if it happened. A senator wanted to be consistent with her, so he should have referred to her. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u107	Mr. President. Thank you. His efforts to teach me and to guide me in what is acceptable and what is inappropriate in the discussion. But I'd like to say, in all my kindness, communication in front of you. The legal committee for the public in the country, at the National Hospital of University Hospital, what the chairman of the Board of Education has said about government and government agencies, what the head of a legal committee has said about a land hospital, a college hospital, the communication, and this language is part of the way the current government, its manager and its leading legal committee are entitled to power; by bullying, by rudeness, by word that is unbecoming, respectable to the president. I understand why. paritaprevir Gudla Viðr Þór Þórðarson is not interested in discussing this at any other time but in the coffee shop.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u108	A respectable president. Now's the time. A senator criticizes a senator who cannot answer for himself. I would have felt normal. A senator would have criticized me because I could have answered for myself right now, but I can't. [[Up front.]] No, no, no. A senator will then need to give a talk but will not be able to answer for himself right now. I was referring specifically to the combination of speeches. In this discussion, when we are discussing the budget, a member of a personal analysis of the prime minister, who is also unable to give an answer. I would have felt normal. A senator would have just discussed the budget. With that. A senator says that the last government is not truthful with the current government, and I would have found it normal for its members to accept this important category of social security and pension rights, to cover the changes we've made, which have truly been a great amount of money for the state money but well spent. Hv. A senator referred to data that everyone has access to, and it is crystal clear that the contributions to this category have been greatly increased by the decisions of the current government. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u109	President. I have a certain sympathy for what happened. Senator. This is not an easy situation in which the government is in today and in front of the budget board these days. This is an enormously complex and difficult situation. The conversation outside the community is not directly supported by the conduct, presentation, or position of these groups. I understand why. paritaprevir The Guðlarger Þórðarson has come to me with the word that the government has dealt well with these groups. But I just don't know why I should. A respectable president. Hv. A senator and others who speak here for the government speak in large numbers, talk about billions and percent, but do not talk about actual individuals and families who have to draw out lives, people who are about to celebrate Christmas, people who are about to give Christmas gifts or try them, people who cannot lose a tooth fill, people who cannot get into trouble with their car because they don't have a table for a living. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] This is reality. This is the everyday life of these people, who are not about billions or percentages. [[The president calls.]] What you need to do is face up to the fact that this day - to - day life is a life that is also important. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u110	President. Thank you. A senator's speech. During the talk, she took a little advantage of the committee's opinion of a lower portion of the legal committee on the subject digital Icelandic. Today, an Icelandic digital dictionary is not available, but it exists. You just can't publish it. So it is available for a digital Icelandic dictionary, which is simply unused. It's 0K. to publish it, but it is not to be produced by competitive law because of the fact that another individual in the market publishes and prints dictionaries. [[The president calls.]] I think it's a little strange because Icelandic is everyone's property, I don't talk about if the production of digital dictionarys has been paid by public funds, we're all supposed to be allowed access to it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u111	President. I agree with that word. A senator that the rule should usually apply if data has been obtained for public funds, the public should have that information. The one represented in his day as a environmental minister that land information would be made public and free of charge. It was an enormous number of injections of evolution and research and all kinds of innovations in that area, and it has produced a huge number of projects. I agree with the prince. A senator already mentions evidence that exists and has been funded by public funds. On the other hand, as for the Icelandic language, I would like to say in general that it is not just our property, it is, in fact, the property of mankind because it is a cultural thym, a language spoken by a relatively small number of people, and as a matter of fact, it is of value in itself. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u112	President. There are, however, several digital language projects. I don't know how to list all of them by memory, but they can be found relatively easily in the Aeronautics Institute, Language and elsewhere. But the dictionary is the essence of all of them. Without open access to the dictionary itself, the definition of the words, and even to translations, the other is virtually useless to the external. However, the tools available have been greatly commended and have attracted the attention and interest of very many people in the language. Adding the dictionary would be invaluable for the future and the development of digital language. I encourage the dictionary to be published as soon as possible. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u113	Mr. President. In fact, I believe that it is not just a parapolitic understanding of this matter but is also a very rich understanding of the fact that this is an important work in the community. I want to justify what I said here in my speech earlier that there must have been some sort of error in the present part of not putting more money on this particular assignment now, as has been pointed out in speech and literature. Professor Eiríkur Rögnvaldsson specifically noted that the English language's position could be compared to the climate problem that when the problem became obvious, it might be too late to go back. Therefore, we really need to make money for this right away, including the cost of money. with the appropriate approach. A senator, though, notes that I will not go in detail to unique technical details on that subject. I trust the best in the field, but I believe that this is where we're supposed to stand as a team, the Allied Council of Iceland. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u114	A respectable president. We'll discuss the budget for 2016, then we'll discuss the income and how to take care of it. Because money is always limited, it is always necessary to make difficult decisions and priorities for the most basic projects. This may result in an argument and an intense emotion. It would certainly be better if we had just a few more tens of billions of dollars so that we could do better with pensioners, improve the quality of life disability, and I don't now talk about Land Hospitals and other national contracts that we members of Congress are interested in. Many well - thought - out talks have been presented here to give clear evidence of the limited income of government funds for important projects. I think that conversation in general has been very helpful and informative. It is natural and indeed desirable for members of the Parliament to have different and different priorities in these matters, and hopefully we will reach a more acceptable conclusion that includes the most important issues for the nation, that the State can meet all its obligations to the people of the land, and that the Kingdom service can make progress from year to year. In this talk on the budget of 2016, I will not discuss how we are going to change the cookie but will try to find answers to questions about whether we can expand it, whether we can expand the amount of resources available for tens of billions, without reducing the service of the State, and without increasing the taxation. Is this possible? Yes, it is possible. In this brief talk of mine, which will be 2,030 minutes, I have resolved to explain how we can save 20 to 30 billion. The members of the council who take the time to listen to my talk will have ideas on how to save 1 billion every minute of the talk. That is my goal here today in this brief talk. I hope the senators show a little interest in this imagination because it is in our power to implement all the ideas here that will be torn apart. How do we increase our income and reduce our expenses without raising our taxes and without cutting off state service? I'm asking men in the side hall to close the door, if they're gonna miss how to increase the state's rest by a billion a minute, they should necessarily turn the door down. Let's do this. Team 1. We could improve Kingdom funds over the next year and the years, likely about 46.5 billion a year, by not selling 30% shares in the Bank of Lands. It's simple, and it's simply because the money we're going to make, this 30% share, is 46.5 billion more than the interest we're going to use on cash to reduce the debt we're going to make. So if we are trying to increase the share of the Kingdom Fund, it is wise to have this 30% share longer. One thing I'd like to come on as soon as I divide unit 1 is that, in the original drawing of the government's budget, and also, after more of the legal committees have taken care of it, it is estimated that the budget of the Lands Bank will be just over 7 billion and more of the legal committees agree to that in their opinion on page. 3 That it might be more than that. It's as if we were going to say in good English annuderstation of the year, I'm sorry, Mr. President, that I might end it. I don't know how to say this British saying in English, but it's hard to find out that it's going to be 7 billion. It is closer to the government's gain of 17 or 20 billion in benefit from this bank. I thought it would be better for me to make the most likely decision than to talk about some supervillain. Of course, it is normal to have a precautionary point in planning the government's interest on the other companies, but here is the state fund of the main shareholder and largely determines whether money will be paid or not, i.e. the officials appointed. There is no reason not to pay interest in the Lands Bank. Money has become 30%, I think, and far above the FESI thresholds, so high that it could make extra money that could possibly be sensitive to 10-520 billion, just to get into the normal space in terms of UNI demand. Still, he would be well above 20% if he did. Let us not discuss this. In the years ahead, I propose that we don't sell these 30%. Another challenge is that when two other banks are for sale, it is really a difficult time to obtain a good, fair and just price for holding a share in the bank. No matter how lucrative this bank is, there is limited potential in investors, there is always a limit to the demand, and when the supply is unlimited, the price is affected. We would be treated as taxpayers too little for the bank under our present circumstances, and as the circumstances will predictablely evolve for the next two, three, four years. That's why there's no need to sell this thing in the bank with a lot of panic. There is no need to sell it, and I restate that by making plans for it, next year, there will be leftovers of 46.5 billion. But this isn't all. Now it's time for team 2. We could also save 100 to 200 million each year. I know there's a very low figure of 100,200 million, but there's been a lot of emotional tension over 50 million people here. I'm also going to take numbers, like 100 to 200 million. We can do this by canceling our purchases from the Asian Investment Bank. The Asian investment bank is a state bank somewhere far away, and I don't see how we can be at the same time with the policy of selling all the banks that are near us but buying those that are far away and that don't matter to us. For example, I know that America and Japan are not going to participate in this Asian infrastructure bank. They see no purpose in it, for they have expressed concern that they do not know whether he will meet environmental requirements or human rights, what course he will shape in these matters. The headquarters of this bank are in China. The benefits of participation in Iceland are completely uncertain. It is suggested that an Icelandic energy adviser company may be able to get access to infrastructure projects in Asia - which would certainly be a good thing - but do you really believe that it matters something even though Iceland had 0.2% in the bank? Either it's technology, advice and knowledge of Iceland's good stuff or it's not. That is the key to determining whether or not she has business in Asia, not whether we have 0.2% in an Asian bank. What the hell is this shit? Most of my life, I've been in an export of knowledge. I know it doesn't work like this. If knowledge is correct and needs to be done, it will sell after going through the eye of the needle and pursuing other knowledge. Or not. They're here to choose the right knowledge, and I have full faith in the knowledge of Icelandic energy companies. I have not heard that this power company has requested that the public contribute to a greater tax charge or that by adding less national contracts to help them out by buying a share in the Asian infrastructure bank. Then there are all the trips made by officials at a meeting of the investment bank. With what reasoning should taxpayers carry the cost of venting these private companies? I don't see them, I don't see that it's the State's job to invest in this device, and I suggest we save a hundred to 200 million. K. This year, by not tying 2.5 billion in a foreign currency in the big bank stocks that are far away. Team 3. We can save 700 million a year in currency by delaying the mixing of biofuels in gasoline on automobiles in Iceland. In the fall of 2013, I drew attention to the council for saving the state funds of 6 billion until 2020 by delaying the execution of the law on the use of biodiversity in fuel. Now, with more members of the council, I have presented a bill to postpone this project, but unfortunately, it has not been made available for the council. If the law were to happen, the state would save some 700 million a year that would have to be improved by the oil companies who have to buy expensive mineral oil abroad. The oil is cultivated in fields that could previously have used to produce food. The production of this biodisil is contaminated, and here we have a much better source of energy, electricity, which we should use. If we're going to do something, we should use this money to speed up the production of electrical cars in Iceland. There are many other places in the European Union where these directives are rooted. I've heard of it because even those who were involved in this law in the European Union have become skeptical about the rightness of requiring the use of biofuel, there is a much more practical way to protect the environment than by sacrificing fields that might otherwise be enough to feed their mouths. A respectable president. The three savings that I have now listed have yielded a total of 6 billion each year without increasing taxes or any damage to the State's service. But the opportunities are even bigger, and I think the results can be improved by a total of 203/430 billion, as will now be attributed. Let us move on to a large section, which is the interest of the estate fund. As you can see in the budget, the latest projections indicate that 72 billion are in interest of government debt. One factor of the impact of the Kingdom Fund's growth is the direct growth of the Federal Bank. The Secret Bank's fruit has truly become very high, 5.75%. One hundred percent of them would lead to the government's saving of three to four billion dollars in less interest of their debt. I think it is possible to reduce control growth in Iceland by 1% without leading to expansion, obstetricitis or a few problems, if we have more control devices to deal with the problems, more guidance devices that are more positive and do not have as negative the effects as the steering growth. As everyone knows, fliers attract the land so - called quick capitals as they cross certain boundaries, and money can run away at any time. It has an undesirable effect on the crew of the kroner and causes instability here. It's become a problem in itself. In addition, high management rates are mainly related to those in debt. It is a strange course to work here to--forgive, Mr. President, could I have a sound in the hall? There's so much balls.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u115	The president's asking for a sound in the room.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u116	Thank you. I'm tracking down a fairly complex thing that we all need a lot of concentration on, 1 billion per minute is involved, and I'm asking senators to focus on themselves enormously. I don't think it's a great idea to develop a lack of attention - and it's a real fun thing, too. Now, I'm talking about how we could reduce bone growth and why it's important to lower them by 1% to leave 32,4 billion more at the state's fund to switch between us. However, there has been a problem in the fact that when steering growth is raised, it bites on the wrong people. This vehicle, the steering growth, is mainly related to those in debt. [[Up front.]] Hv. Senators would love to hear this. You ask yourself: " Why should only those who are in debt contribute to this constant price? Why just them, why not everybody in the country? This allows the device to vary its own savings. For the money policy board, it would be helpful to say, instead of raising the eternal management interest on those in debt, that the entire nation today should be in the best interests of its own time and years, truly to come in the future. Instead of shoveling our donations to finance companies, to credit institutions where we can't see them again, we should place them in our special funds for the year when we ourselves are affected or when our community needs to feel that we can maintain the level of our purchase, though against the wind. Other nations have begun to study it. New Zealand, which invented the steering growth device, has grown to the most weary of all nations on that device and is now taking up more equipment. I urge senators to study this. Since we moved this device to the money policy committee, it would be in my opinion that the management interest could be reduced by 1% and saving the GDP 33/4 billion. Shouldn't we work on that? Also, the cost of the Society can be cut down specifically. It is possible to reduce the cost of the Coronary Bank itself from its operating growth by 4 billion. As you all know, the Navy is part of the state, and he's paying the rest of his business on state funds. I think it is possible to show that his share could be 4 billion more per year than he is by not paying full control interest on binding money. Since 2008, the bat has paid the banks over 40 billion at direct interest. - Are you listening? The late bank has paid the banks over 40 billion dollars in operating interest to help control the country's interest because the banks have so much cash. They've got money in the Secret Bank. The secret bank doesn't have to lend them any money. Most of the world's money banks have a balance between these factors. The banking system is in business with the Secret Bank and receives payment, where and how money grows, depending on the status of the banks. It's the role of the Secret Bank. Iceland's capital is in the position that he loses his business with banks, which he has done since collapse, 4◯13 billion a year. For two, three years I have repeatedly pointed out that he could reduce his loss by using fruitless ties. Most of all the money banks in the world use it. I've spoken in deaf ears. Of course, the money - policy committee is independent, but if she decides to apply this to some extent, I believe that it is harmless to reduce the interest rate of the Council Bank itself in business with the banks by 4 billion a year and increase his interest in the state funds for the same thing. Now we're up to page 6. We've given you some savings ideas that I think are good at in another tens of billions. The fact is, we have a state of responsibility for the best business affairs. Business banks have state responsibilities. It's a question of whether it's declared, whether it's indirect, but I've claimed it's inevitable, and it's just as well to take your head out of the sand, face it, and let them pay the government fees like other companies who get the state responsibility for their money. Bank accounts are financing on loans. I think it's really weird that banks don't pay any government fees. There are laws in this country that say that those who are entitled to the State to pay a price of up to 4% of the human loans. Why, though, do the banks not pay the government's fee? That's because we have some Hokus pocus, some virtual showy that there's some deposit fund here that can react if a bank rolls. Here in the country, banks of a thousand billion are in the back of the world. There's only one bank that has 200 to 300 billion in the back of the world. Do you have any idea what the deposit is in the deposit account? There is no insurance effect on three banks. It takes a thousand banks to work like that. He's a great idea in America. He's a very bad idea in Iceland. When banks roll or are in danger of rolling, the state must always support one of these big banks. They're too big to fall, that's acknowledged. We have to open our eyes, face the banks, and hold them responsible for the real dangers in the system, and invite them to pay, for example, 4% of the banks in the back of the bank. If we're using 400 billion, it's 16 billion a year. Now we're up to 201⁄230 billion. I've been talking for 20 minutes, haven't I? These may be revolutionary ideas in someone's mind. If a person feels that he is ill - thought to place a federal guarantee on the bank, that it is too steep and that it will result in an increase in interest of interest in the public, and something like that, to be discussed, there is another way. She's giving up the banks on the job of operating here the currency. The harbor bank makes the paper money, making it also an electric coin. Paper money is only 10% of the money it takes for the economy to spin. Our economy is 2,200 billion a year, which, if I recall correctly, is over GDP. That's the kind of economy that'll take 300 to400 billion for free money at any given time. It rolls through a few times a year. There's a loan deadline, a deadline, we'd like to have some free money under the pillow, all kinds of funds we want to have available. The late bank should fulfill the government's most important obligation to make this money. It's the basics the economy needs. He makes 50 billion in bills, maybe 45, but we're not using money in everyday business only to a small extent, as you can see. Our business is mostly electronic. The late bank has not followed the evolution of time; it has left private companies to pay the currency. There shouldn't be a problem, I'm not against personal interest, but we need to discuss it. Do we want our private money? She's been privatized ever since the banks were private first. While these were banks, they took care of them. Now, the case is that when the banks were privateised, we, at the same time, performed the money in the country, the crown. Making money out of nothing is a tremendous motivation. It is the privilege that banks have. Then we have cash banks and financial watchers to check that they don't make too much. There has been a failure in the tide of the crash, and now we feel that we have made our knots better. I don't think so. The cost of assigning privates to make money out of nothing is 20 million a year, and we get a lax service. We can do it better ourselves, and less expensive, with the Sentiment Bank. Anyone here would like to suggest that the Lands Bank, Arion Bank and Iceland Bank be allowed to print money too? Do we want to go all the way? Have you noticed that singing is supposed to be a deposit? This is so that we only use private money published by private agents. It's a complete privatization of the currency. That's the song. I suggest that the work that the State accepts to do is the work that it can do best and is essential. The opportunity of a government to create currency is absolutely inevitable. In fact, when banks that serve the currency have become low, the State must always come to the rescue. If that's the case anyway, and we're having them pay the government's fees, ask yourself, " Is it better that we face this situation and say it's best that Iceland takes the step that the nations are starting to watch? ' Today, a national agreement in Switzerland speaks of whether the Swiss cash bank should take this assignment from the banks to pick up a lot of national money in Switzerland. This subject came to the council because it is a direct democracy. People can collect signatures. I think it needs 2% of voters, and then it can be decided on the council program that the Council decides whether to adopt a national currency system. I think it needs to be discussed, and I have more members of all groups except one suggested that a committee be formed here to investigate this matter, the pros and cons of having a private currency or whether we should settle for the currency. I'm no special spokesman for state conflicts in all matters, but I know that these are the spokesmen of such events and they're very good at it. It's not because I think government is the best, I just don't have the pressure that it's always the worst. I think there may be some occurrences where it is the best, even the inevitable. It is one of the most important things for us senators to do. I've had some problems. I will not extend my speech because it reduces billions of dollars per minute. I decided to spend a billion dollars a minute in the talk, where I'm talking about increasing the rest of the government business by 20 to 30 billion, at least can be explained in 20 to 30 minutes, and this would be done without cutting the government's services and without increasing tax returns. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] It's on our way. This is not revolutionary. This is what we can do with the equipment we have, the legislature authority. I'm sure that many members of the Parliament have clear ideas about how we could plan these 20 to 30 billion to the most important projects. I know they'll all be happy to help, but now I challenge senators to help themselves to get into the position of assigning these 20-◯30 billion. The nation is counting on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u117	A respectable president. It was a very interesting speech, and thank you very much. A senator for her. I wish we had more time to discuss these things, especially because they are very interesting. I agree with some things, and that's all. In particular, I agree that we should be here with a stately fee because I wholeheartedly agree with it as a matter of course. One senator said, it is inevitable that the state is responsible for the banks during collapse. This is not a new psalm, this is not something discovered by the 2008 collapse. This is for decades, if not for hundreds of years, knowledge that humans have if they understand something in the banking system that is often not. On the other hand, I wondered about the money print as a boy. A senator mentions. It's a discussion that I really care about, and I understand the problem as a matter of course. A senator pointed out that private candidates, in effect, produced money in some sense, including some kind of money. by creating debts. I wonder what. A senator is not concerned about political effects on loans and money productions if that authority belongs to a state bank or even the state itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u118	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the question and subjugation. I understood him so that he would agree that his state responsibility on banks was inevitable. It has been said many times that banks too big to fall will not be killed. There will always be taxpayers who come to the rescue of these banks, which makes it normal for them to pay some kind of charge. How much of that is the question. The other way is, of course, to take away the responsibility of running the wood that is the money we use in our daily business, assigning them to be just banks, i.e. Choose who gets loans and offers savings to depositors. I suggest, not that loans be made stately, but only the basis for creating the electrons, just as the basis for making the money is now governmentd. I don't think it's our idea to take the money and move it to the banks to make it better. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u119	A respectable president. I'm not sure I understood one thing right in the speech of each other. That's what I'm asking a senator. He noted that before the banks were privateised at the time, natural bank banks handled the formation of money in themselves. In Iceland, however, there was an inflation. The Icelandic dollars has never been free from inflation. I don't see how to study by changing currency, that's at least my opinion, just because the economy is so small that if it's to create money in accordance with some valuable creation that I'm going off to be some sort of mechanism to create this new money when a valuable thing happens, e.g. for high-tech testing. I don't see that the Navy bank is equipped to make these decisions. I'm not saying that private banks are the most qualified of all. I just don't think that the Navy's better at it or any other government or any other agency.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u120	A respectable president. Thank you for that good question. There were banks here, but there were still problems. There was an inflation, but not all banks broke down at once. Although the situation was bad when they were state banks, it got worse when we privateized them, the amount of money in traffic went 19 times after they were privateised, and here we became one of the biggest hits on Earth, one of the largest ten banks in the world. This did not happen when they were rich, although they were certainly bad. One thing you can do to improve your business of government is to secure your arm - long - distance telescopes. They weren't loyal. They were not insured when the state banks were here in the past, when political parties were directly expected to interfere with them and to be organized into their committees and governments. It's not suggested here or at all that there's going to be banks here, but it's just that banks as private companies who have crazy motivation to create too much money is not given power over the currency, the infrastructure itself. The government has to control this directly, not indirectly. We're trying to regulate money production by steering growth. [[The president calls.]] If we set the amount of money for ourselves, we might lower it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u121	Mr. President. I try to listen attentively when it comes to it. A senator speaking. I don't always follow, I freely confess, but his ideas are often very interesting to me. I'm really sorry about the way he started his speech that he couldn't convince his group sisters. Chairman of the budget board, of what he brings here, including of what we in the smaller section have discussed so much about interest money, how not to organise it, as well as the warning he mentioned before about the Asian border, not to use it here within the country. Hv. A senator spoke of the United States not wanting to come to the bank, including the bank. because its environmental policy is not available. This has now been claimed to be true of at least the driving force. The vice president of the budget board, which I remember when this bank is founded, does not want Americans with them, but wants this bank to be an antidote to that bank. [[The president calls.]] I'm gonna ask the senator about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u122	A respectable president. Thank you for these questions and positive suggestions on, of course, the need for plans to make money. It's not really enough to indicate that it's coming from the Bank County because once it returns, it's not yet the year. Today, much farther into the year and more information is being gained. We must not hang bakers for making a deal about why this is so done. The majority of the committees, in their opinion, realize that there was more to it than that, evidently not receiving the support he needed from the Ministry to further estimate it. Regarding the Asian bank, the United States is on the issue of rights and the environment. Indeed, they were invited to join, and having such a bank would have been a great source of strength. The Japs don't join us either. That's interesting. It's a macropolitic device. I asked a lot of questions about this on the Foreign Affairs Committee, where I was impressed that this would be done, but it wasn't listening. [[The president calls.]] So it's probably 200 million each year.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u123	Thank you. The senator's answer. I agree with him because I feel like he's going down earlier. I think we should take advantage of this money at home, not of what we've been discussing. Among other things, he spoke of more devices than a management factor because they needed to be lower so that they would not be affected by debt. So much for talking. A senator on the deposit insurance fund. I'd like to ask the senator what that means if 4% are paid in a government fund. Isn't that what he's worried about? Then I may not have put my talk at ease. Senator. Now this is to be some kind of responsibility if something happens, and I ask: " Is he not worried that it will just get into the business, and we won't be ready to accept it if anything comes up that way because of some other kind of indiscriminate politicians may have taken advantage of the money? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u124	A respectable president. That's a very good question. Perhaps it would be wise for him to use this government guarantee price to reduce the debt of state funds so that he would be equipped to cope with the next bank collapse. It would be less debt, and it would probably be a relief, considering having some form of artificial insurance injury that doesn't work and continuing to have some system that encourages more and more debt, does not really work and has collapsed in 114 countries, I think, 144 times since 1970. We're talking about the changes in this system, the systems that have all the wrong motivations, those that do not have the guts to correct. It's just really scary, there's no one who really wants to talk about it. I think it's very important that this council settles in on these complex issues. I have proposed with the support of members of Congress from most categories, and I hope that this case will be arranged. Then we can form a panel of members of Congress to settle into these complex issues and then discuss them at the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u125	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a very interesting speech. You can agree at least that there will be more money for the Bank of Land than is expected on the bill. Another may be more complex and too short time here to review it. I'm asking why. A senator would be able to support the proposal in his bill that they sell shares at the National Bank. In fact, that suggestion has also been adopted by reason. Councilmen in the state financial program. Well, maybe. A senator accepted this proposal and agreed?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u126	A respectable president. The total financial bill is for many reasons, and the rest is expected, but there are many things that the senators can have on their own. I'm free to have opinions that I don't think it's time, as I described in my speech earlier, and I don't believe in it in itself that 30% of things in this bank are going to be sold or any other item in it. I think it's premature, and it's a bad conclusion for the people of the country. I have suggested that we take advantage of the opportunity to have this share by changing the bank's tenure policy so that it will further compete in financial markets, not with financial subsidies, but with modest financial gains. Then other banks will have to follow when such a big bank starts to offer better terms. It would be most useful for everyone in the country if we had the wisdom to change our tenant policy in this way. We're supposed to use the opportunity to own this bank. Bank markets are not too active to compete, three big banks and a field for a few. Then there is an opportunity for the Kingdom to intervene in one way or another. I think it's the longest intervention we can ever do and the most effective thing, change the world policies, reduce interest rates, and reduce expenses. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u127	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Of course, we understand that there are two classes in the government and men negotiate things. Of course, while the movers have agreed on the Lands Bank, people negotiate with one another. The media has also adopted the interest of older ones and poor ones. Now is not the time to improve the quality of the elderly and the disability according to minimum wage, and it is confirmed that this is not the case but, rather, the basis for a financial development. I want to ask you why. A senator would also have been negotiated between the party groups. Did the advance group, sometimes attributed to socialism, have these elderly menial reforms and invalids put off the table? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u128	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the question. Now we may be on the scene of what is discussed in confidentiality within the forward party. I don't think it's my job to talk about it here or how it lands or to be discussed in any other way. I think there's some sort of compromise here. A senator is fully aware. Of course, she was in that situation not long ago. What I discussed in my talk was how we could increase what is available for the 20 to 30 billion for these classes. I'm tired of discussing the exchange of this cake, I wanted to talk about how we grew it without increasing taxes and without reducing the service of the State. I would have liked to discuss that subject with you. A senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u129	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Frosti the son of Sigurjónsson for this speech, one of the better ones in this financial debate. The Senator, who is very forward, crossed the vision he has, as indicated, about where to make further money for the State. The State Account is a very interesting way, and one meeting has been held in a financial committee on that matter. However, because the senator's discussion of this future vision would like to ask him: "How does he feel about paying the pension fund that earns and the contribution of professional drivers will be paid each month, as with any other income, so that we will eventually reach zero points in this discussion and the tax has been reduced when future pensioners begin to take out of the pensions? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u130	A respectable president. It's a big question. It's a very big question. We're talking about if the money was taxed when it was placed in a pension fund, the income of the state funds and rural society would be greatly improved, but at the same time, when the pension would be taken out in the future, taxpayers would not follow. This could then become a problem, so, out of consideration for future rural society and for those who have to support government services, the taxation has begun when the pension is taken out. It may also be practical for those who now pay in pensions and have a relatively high tax rate that the trip tax will become low in the future when they take the money out. However, this idea has been discussed here, and it has been found several times to tax what has been added to a special property fund, such as to one another, even though it is somehow limited. It is an idea that might be considered specifically.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u131	A respectable president. I appreciate that answer. In the late 20th century, this arrangement was changed. In the past, tax bills were made as soon as they were available, but this has now been turned into payable taxes. What distracts a bit of the position we are currently in regarding senior citizens who are taking out pensions is the tax talk around people who feel it's unfair to pay taxes when they get paid from a pension fund and a insurance agency. I think the discussion would be much easier if it was taken off as soon as then it's just an introduction that people have when they get to the gooder age. Laws don't work again, but if this decision is made, we're also looking to the future and trying to get out of limbo between benefits, pensions, and the tax system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u132	A respectable president. I thank you for this interesting discussion about the pension fund that's trying to do 3 yous. For the future, billions. It is a very difficult task, and it will be bigger if they also make tax dollars for the future. There's nothing certain that it will succeed, and perhaps that's why, as Vigdís's thinking, it's wise to use this tax section to reduce the debt of state now, to favor the future, and to future generations by making better wood, better health systems, and the debt of state in the future. In that case, taxes may be lower. It would be possible for Pétur Blöndal and other members of Parliament to discuss, including me, during the last assembly, to take a little step and start with the special funds. It would bring a great deal of money into the state, and likely it would also be to the local community, which could result in a rapid reduction in the debt of the state. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u133	Mr. President. I'm coming here for my second speech. In my first talk, I considered the committee, but now I want to talk specifically about some matters. The first thing I'd like to consider is the ideal of the elderly and the desperate. We've been over all kinds of percentages and billions of dollars back and forth, but it doesn't matter how these cases are reversed. According to the board's proposal, what? The senators of the forward party and of the Independence Party should keep micropairs and the elderly under minimal income. We know that not many earners are on minimal income, but that is to keep the worst of them under minimal income. It makes the administrative part because it makes it so important for him to apply the letter in the Social Security Act, 69. g. In this article, it says that the improvements in social security should be increased according to pay development in the country or according to a consumer prescription according to the better or more practical conditions for the elderly and the poor. Those who wrote them laws and they were. Councilmen, who approved them, did so in view of improving and protecting the interests of the elderly and the poor. With the situation in the community, it was necessary to raise especially the lowest wage, these groups are left because the law has to be followed. The cold law code that was so prevalent up here in the years before collapse is once again the main point, not the spirit of the law. A law on social security is a protection for people who need this support network. There is no note that it is now, when all other community groups rise backward, to leave this group behind. Now they've been working on about a percent, but I think it's totally crystal clear and there's no need to argue that 9.7% isn't the same thing as 10.9%. If we just take a simple percentage bill we learned in elementary school, we take two men and they're in the same place with the same salary or pension on December 31, 2014. Pension rates rise by 3% on January 1, 2015, but buying goes up by 10.9% on May 1, 2015. So for four months, the pensioner is 3% higher than the minimum wage. But then the minimum wage goes up by 10.9% from May 1. If you're a pensioner, you're just gonna keep rising on an increase of 3% all year. Then comes 9.7% January 1st to the pensioner, and the pension goes up more. Then the situation has gone better until May 1st, 2016, when the person in the low pay gets an additional 5.9% increase than the person in pension does nothing and just goes on to 9.7% out of the year. Every man sees that the pensioner gets worse out of this account. It's just a simple arithmetic, but not a complicated calculation of the pay number. However, if we were using it, the rate of remuneration in 2014 was greater than 3.6%, further closer to 6%, and the rate of remuneration in 2015 is more than 3%, being closer to 8%. Then the forecast for 2016 is even better. Sadly, these groups are being badly affected by the account account. The smaller section of the budget has requested information that we can look at over a period of ten years to examine the evolution of a pay number based on minimum wage and additional micro-organism status. I expect we'll get all this before we go to the 3rd. Funds but there the smaller part has a reimbursement to do better with older and desperate ones than the administrative body trusts to do so. We will give a detailed reason why it is reasonable and just in the later committee party that will be distributed during the discussion. Madam President. When the smaller portion calculated the changes they made, we had a fixed remuneration in the collective contract of the European Union of Reykjavík and the United States of Florida. In this case, on May 1, 2015, the minimum wage is 10.9% to 255 levels. K. Then, on May 1, 2016, the lowest salary will reach 270 levels. K. But as everyone knows, there is also an increase of 2017, then 2018, and then the minimum wage is 300 of you. K. So the minimum salary in 2016 will be 270 you. K. But according to a government memo, the Ministry, an increase of 9.7% means that a single person's improvement will be 246,902 k. with household replacements per month in 2016. 246,902K. While minimum wage will be 270 points. K. There's quite a difference. Neither can be considered high - paying and truly difficult and almost impossible except in any particular situation to survive. It's strange what the greater part of the government is and what it is. The forwarding party members and the Independence Party make great efforts to convince the rest of us that this is a good mollusk. That it's something you're supposed to accept and that you're probably doing in the blues where everything seems to be going up. Then the group that is ill should be kept down and has the lowest chance to increase their income. Of course, this is a disgrace. I still have hope that there will be more. General members of the board, more than half a dozen. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson, changed his mind, for there is truly reason to do so, and thus there is an argument of fairness and justice. As I said before, we'll be better able to cover this whole thing by 3rd. budgets. Then there is again reason to discuss this with the discussion of the budget we are taking now, and as with the 3rd. However, there is another big issue, and this is the situation of the Hospital and the land hospital problems that are not solved in the budget or on the proposals of a greater portion. I would like to quote two respected men who have written about government policy when it comes to health care and especially the affairs of the Land Hospital. In an article published in the News magazine yesterday, Kári Stefánsson, director of Icelandic genetic analysis, says: "I'm sorry. He starts by saying this, with President's permission: It has become clear to the people that the government of Sigmundur Davíð will no longer sit for the terms of the season. The reason is complex, and this is true, as the Germund History of the Holy of Hell says, that at one fate, many apocalyptic doctors come to an unscathed pace. Then he wants to look into history and review how it is possible for him to conclude that the government is single-use. He quotes promises that the medical system, and especially the Landspians, should receive huge sums of money. Hv. In a television interview, Vigdís Hauksdóttir, said that only 13 billion were needed, and then everything was fine. A senator would likely be talking about 13 billion so that things could be handled, new projects, not just to improve the cost and pay. The billions who have come from the start of the government have virtually all but 1,700 million, paid off, and paid for it. The situation is now that the expansion is not under way, about 2% or 1.7% of the head of the Land Hospital say that the increase is over a year, costing about a billion. Since more money is not expected to meet more patients at the Land Hospital, the governor's share is making a cut - down claim to the adverse land hospital at a billion times. It's news that's serious, and we have to listen to it. But again, Kári's Stefánsson. He reviews these promises, and he reviews observations that the nation's strong desire to set the priorities of the health system first and to begin giving back good - looking. But as everyone knows, we improve in every aspect of our life and could only do so in the expensive medical service that takes much of the government expenses and that had to be cut down. We stopped cutting down there in 2012 and began to give back in 2013, and plans were to continue building when we were about to correct the cow. Now we're right on the cow. The priority of the present government, however, is to reduce the tax and charge of those with sufficient resources while starving the Land Hospital and not to meet the expansion. Stefánsson's Kári provides an example reminding us that our health care investments are very low here in relation to the OECD countries, and it has actually been shown that we are second largest, in the middle of Greece and Mexico. There we are, Icelanders, that rich nation that boasts of the world record left. But we are not in a better place when it comes to investments in equipment, equipment, and health - care facilities. According to Kári Stefánsson, he himself will see to it that you are 100. a man signs that if there's not anything here to talk about, he will never vote for the Future Party and the Independence Party again. I really hope that this kind of threat will not be necessary. Rather, the management will see that only to respond to the expansion is not going to happen. Re-evaluation is to calculate the collective agreement, since there are no agreements between recruitment, finance, and the Ministry of Health, which accounts for more than 400 million where the Ministry of Justice calculates doctors' watch contracts less than the Ministry of Health. A public opinion is to calculate this to a budget so that it can be settled, which would be even more serious if the National Hospital had to cut down over 1.4 billion during 2016. Then it is maintained on the house. Also, it is 1.4 billion that hospital officials say it is necessary to maintain their facilities. It is another fine article that was written on the morning of the morning, which is designed to decorate with other men's feathers. This article is by Dr. Guðbjartsson Guðvaðsson. There he speaks to the president of the budget, president, and vice president, saying that they are taking into account gifts the land hospital received when trying to top up the position and what the state did and contributed to the hospital. He says, with President's permission: It is intolerable that the Landspians must constantly be in trouble for an unfashionable business;◯ - this tells Tómas TheGuðbjartsson about the analysis to be done, set at 30 million. K. in identifying the hospital's position - the Agency simply does not get enough money to provide basic services and deal with collective agreements, much less to be built again after the ongoing hardships. 14th. This is how it is estimated that next year at least 3 billion in order not to cut down services and keep seawater in business. The suggestions of the memory of the part are on this. They're up to 3 billion just as analysis has shown, and everyone knows that there's no way to wait for some diagnosis to take place for 30 million. K. in 2016. We have to put money in the hospital at the end of the year. Then, in the article, Tómas says: "It should be held in place that from 2003 to 2014, the funding of Land Hospital as a proportion of total government expenses has been summed up by just one third. At the same time, the need for legal service for the hospital increases by 2% per year because of increasing projects associated with the growing elderly. Then he calls for understanding the government and a real future view and will in action. I agree that it needs to be done and to remind you of the suggestions of the less part of the 28 on the change document of the smaller part. It speaks of the landspians'having a $1.4 billion business, which includes both the increase and the change in monitoring by doctors, and then the maintenance of 1.4 billion. A total of 2,840 billion will run to the Hospital in addition to what the bill says. K. It's a minimum. Of course, as we call it, we need a view of the future in this series of languages. These are two big and big issues; the situation in the elderly and desperate, and the situation of the Land Hospital, the poorer elderly and the poorer than the lowest paid in the community in 2016, the cutting - off of a billion or more according to how the pay is calculated, at least a billion in the Land Hospital in the blues. We're breaking down the foundations, strengthening our support to the welfare system, and holding down the worst-case groups. But I'd also like to mention another matter, which is the local police. The budget bill, or change proposal, is expected to contribute 400 million to law enforcement. V.E.G. The Minister of the Interior has said that there are two things that need to be considered when it is to be divided between police laws. border control needs to be checked, and the number of tourists has to be treated. The base on the service is just over 400 million. K. and I'm worried that the only thing this is going to do is cover the angle, not bringing money to the projects that are on the police table and that they're not doing it now because they don't have enough people to do it. I've been looking especially at the South Sea, but of course the problem is all over the country. However, the number of tourists is high, and tourists are large in the South. The road was recently depicted as showing that almost all foreign tourists who come to the land are going to Gold Falls and Geysi. Almost everyone. They are certainly spreading throughout the land. Unfortunately, the policy of this industry has not been powerful enough by the government, so we are in nothing but the amount of time I have to go through it. The number of tourists in each country has increased dramatically, and if we look at the South Sea district in particular, the number of tourists in each country has increased. Of course, when death or a serious accident occurs, the police address these matters and everything that concerns people's lives and limbs. But when it is so few in number, and the projects are growing so marvelous, then obviously there will be other tasks that are not only life and limb of people at once. Under these circumstances, domestic violence is at stake. These are issues related to children that witness domestic violence. The plans and efforts of the police and rural society in many countries to do more harm to domestic violence and to step up and act earlier and with the children in particular, to weaken the police position unless we specifically intervene. The minority has suggested that 200 million especially engage in sexual violence, which thrives best within the homes and in the quietness and incoherentness of society. Of course, this is not to be tolerated. The smaller portion contributes to 200 billion. K. Into this party. There are also small periods of wealth and such offenses that only lie on the table of law enforcement, and she has little time for it. So this is a serious situation. As I pointed out earlier, the South Sea has to be looked especially at - and now they're saying it's a ball of the worst sort, but it's not like that. It's just that almost all tourists travel through the South Sea. The natural border defense is there, and the South Sea is under pressure from law enforcement. Of course, much is also seen in the capital area and is increasing if tourists travel around the country. So it has to be handled. In the debate about guns, weapons, and trouble that men have taken here at the General Assembly, I fear that services to the population, especially domestic violence and capital crime, and anything that may be less than life and limb, will not get so much attention. But such service is essential. Madam President. I want to use the last few minutes to talk about the documentarys. Section 6. In the bill, a report and a greater proportion of the budget committees make adjustments and suggests that the Allied Council allows us to sell our premises Route 162, to remind me that this is at least the residence of the National Library. I'm worried about this. There's been a lot of policy for the museum. The budget has been put into plans for redesigning and what to do with the building and its property to meet the needs of the National Library. The National Archives oversees the administration of the country, the educational community, and the public. It is important, then, that the only collection mentioned in the constitution is on its own, not to be moved to the Cape or to the Chefavour airport in a facility where the state is or where access is not paid. It's fine where it is. It's weird to bring an article like this. Of course, you think it's the idea that it's a good idea to have a hotel, a charm shop, or something like that, that the location is so that it should not be slided for a public archive. It does not show the status of the museum and the importance of it for the administrations, for the educational community and for the public in the country that access is good. This is thrown directly into a new disposal policy regarding the location of the museum right at 25 Columbia Heights.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u134	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for a nice speech. It involved urgent matters both of the elderly and of the poor and of our land hospital. In a fine committee party, I've had a smaller part of the budget board. A member of the U.S. Senate signed an excellent guide on what we Icelanders are putting in the maintenance of facilities and equipment buys for the health sector. It compares with the OECD countries which spend an average of 0.5% of gross domestic product on these teams. That equals 10 billion bucks. Each year, however, we Icelanders have spent less than 0.1% of GDP in investments in public health services. We are in a place similar to Greece and Mexico, and we are in the secondmost place in the OECD countries. Of course, this comparison is not in our best interests and illustrates how we have apparently fallen behind for decades, trusting in the well - intentioned spirit of many in the society of many who have given the air to the Land Hospital, as noted in any case. A senator quoted a doctor's article on these matters. I just want the senator's vision of how we will be more objectively pursuing higher ambitions to get the OECD countries that pay 0.5% of the gross domestic product for this series. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u135	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the question. Health and health facilities throughout the country have enjoyed gifts from the common people. Women were gathered for Land Hospital years ago. Of course, we have strengthened our system by means of a collection campaign and gifts. However, it should not be the main theme. If we look at the northern countries, we will be so far behind, both business and equipment, maintaining housing and any investment around health care. I work it out in my committee program that if you're looking at other parts of the North, e.g. in Denmark, we would be 14 million. K. earmarks for these joints. We are far behind in this, and we hear reports almost every month, even weekly, of mushrooms and health - related circumstances, of renting homes, and of gods knowing what of the Land Hospital. But it's not just there, it's like this all over the country. The situation is not good, and the association we enjoy is Greece and Mexico. We have not felt that it was good association when we consider the welfare system. We'd rather be closer to the North. Of course, we're supposed to be going there, but we've got far to go, both in housing and in investments, but also in the service and payment of individuals in which we pay much more than we do in the North countries. We have a long way to go, we have to make a course and then follow it for a long time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u136	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I'd like to ask you what. A senator is twofold, first of all, about the interest of the elderly and the poor who are here the matter that floats over the waters. Government officials are given back encouragement as to having voted against the memory of the reorganized rise to this group. What does the senator see in this regard? That we can mate somewhere with such suggestions that others can be drawn to the table? Only for parish Plans, groundwork, growth agreements, and cultural agreements. Now all of this has been dropped into one pot, and you don't quite know if the budget is being reduced or if it's the same as it has been, but you might look better because it has become one pot. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u137	Madam President. With regard to the first question, I hope that people are talking in side rooms and trying to figure out how to improve the quality of the elderly and the disability so that someone is busy. But with regard to the structure and strategy, yes, it'll be confusing when you put everything in one pot, and it's probably to try to get a bigger number. But there's not much real growth in there. Of course, we should put much more. The smaller portion contributes to an additional 400 million in the schedule, and that's a good step. In order for the parts of the country to be convincingly involved in the budget using an earmarked coin, this amount must be over 1 billion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u138	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for a good talk, as always. What I have often wondered, had been at a council for two and a half years, and have been pursuing politics for several years, is that now this crisis of health care is not new. He's been for decades now, waiting. When you listen to those who are working in this business and in the hospital and others are talking about how they've been fighting for years trying to build up a proper health system in Iceland. In fact, in the nonsenseing good things that were here in the past decade, the health system could not be run on the right side of zero. For example, in the last campaign, there was a wonderful promise to build a health system that was involved, but the experience is different. I have to admit, I scratch my head every day. Where Are We Going? Hv. A senator mentioned earlier polls saying that more than 90% of the people want to put their health systems first, so I don't talk about improving the interests of older citizens and desperates, 95% say in surveys that they should have their priorities and that they should have the same retrospective dressbacks and paybacks as the public. Why is it that humans are engaged in this fight, especially now when there is more to it? The year next year is when the stability progress is being made, hundreds of billions are entering a government fund that could be used to reduce the population's growth rate, but health levels are not fully penetrated, and so recreation is being done. What is involved? Why are we Icelanders like that? Well, maybe. A senator answered this for me, and a politician, "Why are men like this? "
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u139	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I can't answer that question, but it's true. A senator points out that we have not taken enough steps in recent years to improve our health. Of course, some good things are done and although I'm an adult, I haven't been in politics for very long and only in Congress since 2009, where I could observe these things. What we must do, however, is determine where we will take our health care. Where are we going? Then we have to take our steps there. It has led to the likelihood that the public system is being starving and tired, so it is a personal business. I'm not gonna tell you if it's right. However, I know that the medical staff in Iceland did indeed deal with the crisis and services under very difficult circumstances, and yet kept up a good service, but of course, with the hope that when the crisis was over and we began to experience the results of the effort, a better position of work would be made, but it has not happened in the same way. The pay has improved after a great battle, but the situation remains as it is, and health - care professionals have to cut down and refuse services they know they need.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u140	President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. And I've often wondered about this 330 you've been doing. a people's reason why we always have such an amazing disagreement about everything. It was already inside the counter, but.... paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir and others have established that the first thing that this government did in summer was to destroy almost everything the previous government had done; investment scheme, national parishion Plans, withdraws the value of an increase in the cost of beds. You just sit there and scratch your head. What is politics going on in Iceland for real? What are we here for? And how can we find ways to sit down and discuss in harmony what is best for this country? I know exactly what the situation is. That is because we are always defending some special interests. You came into it in your speech earlier, they're being protected from selfish gain, they're paying off taxes and paying taxes on those who have plenty of money in the community. That's the problem, what we're doing. [[The president calls.]] We need to have a conversation with the people of the country, especially those with money.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u141	The President reminds me of why. The members of Parliament should properly address other members of the council in a public chair.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u142	Madam President. It is true that politicians deal with things and disagree, but just as well. A senator pointed to earlier, however, that the nation agreed that health standards should be placed first. We are not to starve them. Rather, we are to make sure that they are able to function properly, and we are to protect the interest of elderly ones. The people agree on this. It's the nation that chooses politicians, and hopefully they're discussing it here in side rooms, and hopefully they're just going through it. Generals when they see what they think in the community. I hope they become voters afraid, as they say, and try to find a way, at least to handle these two big cases. Let the rest be, though they cannot afford to follow the good plans of the left government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u143	A respectable president. You can't go over all things in a short answer, but I want to reiterate it about the National Library, if someone has missed it, that there are reports in Article 6. It is not when it is granted to include running and selling some items over a few minutes or weeks or several months. For example, a long report on the police station has been available. It is obvious, natural, and good for humans to have a warm mind about the important collection that is available in the National Archives, and it does not exist, and no one is going to run to the interests of the National Library. The importance of this does not have to be considered. But I would point out that the National Archives is a house in an old cheese factory, and it has cost a lot, and it will cost a lot of money to try to change the facility so that it is suitable and worthwhile. It is the nature of the matter as a result of circumstances change, this area is now totally in the centre of the city of Reykjavík and the value of the house and not only its area, but its surrounding region has increased, allowing funds to be released to make the museum a waste. It's absolutely clear that a public archive can't be anywhere. Then I feel a little strange about both health and pension issues. The numbers speak for themselves, we know it's been added. You can say that you should do things differently, etc., but no one can claim that this was not a priority. You should not speak down the works that have been done in both categories, e.g. The large agreements that were negotiated to prevent doctors and nurses from going to other countries. For example, they have obviously noticed that we no longer hear their problems. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u144	Madam President. They worked hard to create policy plans for the National Archives, for vision, for policy, and for the housing as well. It says in the course adopted last year: ▪ All the main activities of the National Archives will be in one place at Reykjavík. (7) From now on, men have won. When an article is suddenly published in a financial bill or in a change form of a financial bill, people become suspicious and wonder what is going on. We've had weeks of work to make policy for the museum, and then there's just some report from a more part of the legal committee. Is there any other policy that runs across the policy of the Ministry and the personnel and management of the National Library? Of course it's surprising. If the National Archives is not to be sold immediately, why can't we just wait on the article and then bring the changed policy that could be based on this source? I find this strange, and I'm not surprised that those who say that National Archives are wondering what it is they're doing when they're working according to a policy adopted last year. Regarding the health system, I or the smaller part have not criticized collective agreements. True, they had to be fought for, but they were made and both sides accepted them. It is being criticized that money does not come in because of growth in land hospitals primarily as well as in the public system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u145	General rule of 6. There is no running and sell, and as I have mentioned before, there are other articles there, e.g. of the Tollhouse and the fact that this article is in there does not mean that people will close their customs and ask the people who do their job in tents. Disbelief is high in society, and suspicion can be created, men can have all the opinions on this matter, but I don't like it when they harbor suspicion, because there's no reason for it. Regarding health care, the government's policy has been a long time; unfortunately, it has not been made up of the hospital right now, although it has been the last member of the Committee, that Iceland's health insurance is to have the role of bringing up a mixed budget, similar to that in the North countries and as the Landspians have called. I agree with what. Senator, this is very desirable. The importance of financing, no matter where the system is, whether it belongs to a special person or to a public, is that the more expensive it is and transparent, the better the discussion will be, and the results will be the better. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u146	Madam President. I still feel as I was in my speech that it is odd to request that the Allied agree to sell homes in which the National Archives is sold and that it has just agreed to stay there and that it has put a large amount of money in recycling. Thereafter, in terms of the land hospital, growth is not expected, and this is not expected to increase the number of patients. In the opinion of the executives, it means that approximately 1 billion must be cut down, about a billion, in service to patients. It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u147	A respectable president. I'd like to use this opportunity, perhaps on my last day at council for the moment, to discuss a matter that is very dear to me, and I only included in my speech on the budget bill yesterday. It is a matter of mental health and general interest in mental health in this country. Of course, this is a very big matter and has a wide link to many health services, health care, community welfare, and so on. It is, of course, very relevant to the discussion of the terms of the interest in nursing and micro elliptical patients because mental illness is a common cause and the result of a variety of disability and disability. We know well that this too is the cohesion of old age, so I think it is very important to take on mental health because of a complete approach. A respectable president. Today, for the council and for the welfare committee there is a draft or proposal to conclude a policy and action plan on mental health health care for four years. She was brought into action after a council hearing proposal from whence. paritaprevir Ingibjörg Ingadóttir and others who suggested that the health minister work at the shape of a mental health policy in Iceland as well as a plan of action. V.E.G. The minister of health took matters into his own hands, and I am very grateful to him for their initiative. He set up a control group, and the one here was represented in that group. I was there representing children, or those who are mentally ill. It is kindly and related to me, and it is a pleasure to be able to impart from my experience to those subjects. There were many experts in this group as well as individuals who have experience in dealing with this disease as well, so I think that there was a very good group of people there that approached the subject in a whole way. In addition, multitudes of advisers were called, and consultations were widespread. At a meeting of the welfare committee this morning, where I sat and listened to some visitors come and follow their comments, including A mental - health aid, the Bank of Iceland and Development, made comments. I don't think there's any reason to review them precisely because the matter is being treated at the Committee, and there are a lot of people who will be coming to see her and discussing her with a mental - health policy. Still, there are two things I would like to make up for now. There was a very good point, which I think the committee will take seriously, I hope, from all of the guests of the meeting that they were missing into the plains, into the council hearing of Ministers, linking with the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people. This is fundamental, and I hope that there will be an improvement in discussions at the council. It was also pointed out at a meeting of the PES this morning that these policies can hardly be referred to as mental health, this is more of a plan of action. But I believe that this is a very good first step in seriously discussing the welfare of the nation. Let us continue to discuss this at council and avoid discussing this in the community as often as possible. The discussion of the next year's budget contains points that I especially want to point out in this regard. Now, I realize, a respectable president, that this proposal to be concluded has not been accepted yet, but I do hope there are some issues here, and I suppose there is no great disagreement, but I shall not say. It is one of the important goals and main objectives of being integrated and continuous in the activities of people with mental disorders and their families. This is an emphasis on the importance of the establishment of state and rural society, i.e. The community health services and welfare services, talk together to simplify the matter in a way, since mental illness is in a way that doesn't always require hospital admissions. One of the issues presented here as a subsidiary in integrated and continuous service is the series of talks about the children, which is about the introduction of the family bridge into the community welfare services. I don't think that on this project there's a lot of disagreement. This is a way to implement a procedure that is well - known, for example, in other parts of the North, i.e. that workers working with children, whether in school, in vacation homes or in high school, be trained to talk about mental illness with children and to care for children who grow up in the shadow of mental illness. This is a typical work done by the health authorities and the community. For example, a paper with the bill says about this project, with the permission of a president: A psychiatric problem among parents is a known risk factor for the well - being of children and can affect their development and mental health, and it is important that children who suffer from mental illness always be taken into account. You can have a positive and protective effect on the feeling and position of these children as shown in foreign studies. Here is a suggestion to set up a specific service in an environment where parents have a mental disorder about their children. The purpose of talking about children to parents is to reduce the transfer of mental health problems between generations, but it is important to consider that 75% of mental disorders appear in some form before the age of 24 and 50% before the age of 14 (psychiatric prophylaxis window). In other parts of the North countries, professional social services and health care professionals have been legalized to know how to communicate with their parents with or without their children about their mental problems. Also, 13 - year - old self - help groups have been established by the government in these countries but in close cooperation with a stakeholder. The legal arrangement has provided funding for education and training professionals along with the financial resources of scientific research. In the Parliamentary Council of Policy and Action Directive, this task is set up at 21.8 billion. K. Unfortunately, it has been neglected to enter the budget of the coming year, and perhaps normal, since it has not been approved. The misunderstanding may be that this work has been financed in a committee list more than a part of the legal committee in 2016. That's a misunderstanding because in the 08-399 payoff on health matters and various activities, some 30 million are proposed. K. a temporary donation of about 10 million. K. Go to the light, the rehabilitation and support centers for people who have had cancer and their partners, and 20 million. K. to promote the activities of the Central Center of Parents and Children in Sömula, Reykjavík. That could be a misunderstanding. A central center of parents and children is a private firm that has focused on supporting mothers and their children up to one year of age. This is very good, and it is urgent that the project be continued, but this is in the sense that it is a private firm that will care for this particular group. What is suggested in a pedestrian arrangement and conclusion that psychiatric policies are secondary, and it is that the program we talk to children in all ages into adulthood and that the personnel of the health service and the welfare services of our community are trained to take on this assignment. This is about that all the people wherever they live, regardless of rank or rank, can approach this service, i.e. All children in the country have access to the ministry regardless of their parents'economic situation, and it is very important to realize that this is a big difference. I've only met the project Central Center of Parents and Children, and I love it, and I know they do very good things, but I want to make sure that the rest is everything else, and it's very important in the name of solidarity and equal to the fact that there's action going on. I don't think there is any further need to talk about it, of course, it will have a very broad range of health and economic impacts, because breaking the chain of mental illness between generations is a significant benefit to society. There is another issue in this policy proposal that we were brought up this morning at a meeting of the welfare committee, and I think more of the legal committee should take into account a serious matter. It's that at the Land Hospital, there are now six people who have been published by the Department of Justice in Sugni - aren't there yet? They cannot begin their own home because of their mental condition, but they are living at the Land Hospital, at the national hospital. Of course, it is totally unacceptable that we use public funds to have people live in the Land Hospital on Ring Road. I'm suggesting that a greater proportion of the panels view this point called A.9 subtracting to a four - year course of mental health care and to see if there is any way that they can find a flat surface in order to trigger that assignment immediately next year, i.e. to ensure that these six individuals of their own residence are with assistance, thus releasing very valuable space at our university hospital. This morning's discussion at a meeting of a welfare committee showed that a special property was being visited in Reykjavík to build up this situation, but most of them agreed that it was completely unacceptable to wait for so long as action was taken to bring these people into a permanent and independent home. A respectable president. To say that I hope that this policy and its restoration will be closely followed by the welfare committee and again at the council and that there will be a major policy development in this suit, which we will be proud of in every way. I'm going to take a few minutes, the last few minutes I have in this talk, to go to a whole different language, which has a certain point of touch, like most of the society that connects with each other in some way. It is this morning's case that I tore up about the council and is about the ideas of the European Parliament and other parties to help the smallest of our brothers who are now fleeing the desolate war zones in Syria and beyond the waters of the Mediterranean Sea. The idea has developed that Schngeren will open the so - called passport station in the countries where most refugees have established themselves. In the case of Syria, it is in Turkey, Jordan, and Lebanon. It is working on this idea now at the European Parliament's scene and the scene of Schengen, and it takes a major step toward the fact that Schengen America, the countries that the Schengen community service opens up a common writing centre where they can seek refugees who want to get to Europe. Let us see that not all refugees who are living in refugee camps in these lands, Palestine, Turkey, and Jordan want to go to Europe. It is less than anyone wanting to go to Europe today to take on a great and dangerous journey first across the Mediterranean and then accept uncertainty about going through Europe, i.e. those who reach Europe's shores and to plunge into one of the European countries and ask for a fugitive or a fugitive's position. By opening up a common visa station in or near the refugee camps, refugees who want to come to Europe may apply for the so - called humanitarian visa or humanitarian visa. Those who receive such visas are thus under international protection and can begin a trip to Europe without having to make the dangerous voyage across the Mediterranean Sea and the uncertainty of the Balkans and the North or West European countries. In other words, they receive a recipe for humanitarian writing and can use dignity and dignity in a style that suits them at any time. By doing this as one of the Schengen countries, I feel that Icelanders display humanity and humanity, but I'm stressing that this is not what Iceland does on its own, it's a decision that's both taken and worked at the Schengen Community scene. In my mind it's not a question that me and the Icelanders are supposed to work on it and calm on all years to support the Schengen partnership rather than weaken it, but I think that when it comes to it, no one would think to close the Schengen area and build up bridges, borders, or walls between the Schengen states again. It would be a complete return. By helping refugees who have had enough to endure in a refugee camp, by releasing them from the bondage to the sea of uncertainty, where perhaps 2/3 can get along all the way, by releasing them and by giving them humanitarian visas, I think we can only become humane society and thus reduce the reputations of a foreign agency and have been terrible to look up at. There are several bodies in the Committee's panels that could be considered. I have no idea what this kind of operation will cost, but this is primarily a Sophia decision to begin with, i.e. to participate in this program of the Schengen team, and therefore in a complete heart.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u148	A respectable president. I thank the senator very much for this speech. All I want to discuss is the mental health that the senator did in a material way, so I appreciate when discussions are made with reason and facts, as the senator did instead of being half - truths. I hadn't heard the information that came out of a meeting. This morning the welfare committee is about the individuals who are living in the national hospital. As shown in the talk, how glad we are that there are some resources to be considered for those individuals! This is exactly part of government policy now, and it shows up in the health focus of the bill and the changes, starting off with a side project, such as strengthening health care and, as the bill says, taking control of health care professionals to grab individuals, especially young people, earlier to lower the hospital and youth clinics. So I like it, a respectable president, when things are discussed that way because it's now about this medical discussion, that's getting better at Land Hospital. At the same time, in the national hospital there are people who are not a means for which we will have to consider in the future and, for example, build more room for medical care. It's kind of a compliment, a respectable president, rather than an answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u149	A respectable president. I thank the chairman of the budget board for his compliments and agree with her, thanks to what is done well, such as that in the proposal, psychologists are expected to be hired into the health care department far and wide around the country. I hope it comes along. At a meeting of a health committee this morning, visitors pointed out that four times as far as a mental - health professional is concerned, and this was just like a drop in the ocean. We welcome every step we take in this series of issues, including those of the United States. This. As noted for this morning's meeting, for example, ADHD patients are missing the situation in this room and, in the opinion of experts who came to the meeting this morning, may be able to help a wide range of people with simple psychological advice on the health care unit, thereby reducing medication and other similar medications. The details of prisoners were not in here, but they certainly call for special discussions, and hopefully this will take place between discussions. I have to stress, though, that we must not make enough room for money designed for mental health problems to be spent in the private interest of health care. This must be a community service because, while those who are dealing with this problem and their families are not necessarily the most efficient groups, unless less, the service must be available so that any person can seek help at any time. This must be so that everyone can seek help. That is why it is so important to put this into partnerships between government and rural society, to enter the health and welfare services of rural society, and there will be no caste difference between children and others in the service. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u150	A respectable president. We agree on this. This is a cause for great joy, and it reminds me of the greatest. A health minister said that there was room for 12 psychologists to be hired. This is unconfirmed, and I was trying to recall it while I was preparing for that answer. It reminds me, but it'll make a lot of money about it too. The Senator only talked about prison matters, and I've always spoken before a trial there. It's quite the same hurt to talk about improvement in mental health in the way of taking people sooner, before things are in trouble, as the senator said, if this would even save the state a drug for the future, it's a ◯win-win-ground position. Naturally, the most important thing is that people who are ill are helped as soon as possible and that the system is holding their arms around them. That's why I'm very happy with the emphasis. Minister of health, Kristján Þór the son of Júlíusson, with this vision. It should also be noted that during the last assembly the problem arose. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson made a pact proposal to identify children when they were in school. That's very important. I recall that the process of convergence that I don't believe was that it was going into a new health policy that is now being worked hard in the Ministry of Health. I am very happy that this is a common understanding of this project because it is for the benefit of everyone that as many Icelanders have health and health. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u151	Madam President. Thank you. The chairman of the budget committee for her later answer. For this reason, I would like to remind you of another group that especially needs attention. I have been very fond of children, families, and victims of mental illness. I've pointed out that there's only a small budget in next year's budget and that it's going to a private company that's treating a very limited group. The large group remains and lies unsettled in a garden and needs to be considered to allow access to all. Another group that I especially want to call attention to is elderly. This policy suggests the development of knowledge in older citizens' mental health problems in the nursing wards of hospitals. It is very important that this knowledge builds up and goes from hospitals to all clinics and nursing institutions and that there will always be professionals who can provide mental - health professionals who have mental problems and that, as previously stated, are not public service and public knowledge because of the fact that services of mental health are not to be isolated from private institutions and thus become privileges to a few chosen ones. It must always become a public service because it is a sensitive group and we must make sure that it receives the appropriate service.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u152	Madam President. Like what? A senator knows that I am a member of a well - being committee and have participated in the work of hosting conventions and reviewing the comments of the mental - health policy and the procedures in which I hold high hopes for being overstepped at this assembly and not only in the process but also in action. There are subjects where relatively small amounts of money could save so much, so you don't talk about improving your quality of life and health. We are often reminded of this. A famous doctor who has been advising pens recently called attention to the fact that if we could increase the measures taken in this country and correct the so - called atrial fibrillation in patients who do not take the medication for this problem or answer it, we could also save the marvelous money for the future because of dealing with such problems at an early stage, we could avoid major expenses later. To allow patients who could receive services and resources to be more appropriate in the community if they had access to a home or where they could have access to a clinic in emergency hospitals is naturally very expensive. It is not new. Can I remind you that Ólafur Ólafsson, a former surgeon, was tireless about pointing out these health problems here in the past? That's why I liked it. A senator recorded this, and I agree. If I recall correctly, there are 33 million people who are going to make earmarks for those with mental problems so that they can get out of mental wards. I want to ask you why. Senator: Why don't we agree to try to get this into the budget? Although the projection program has not been completed, I think it all indicates that it will be, if not before Christmas, at least soon after the New Year's Eve. If so, we should make financial contributions to get this critical point started.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u153	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry, support, and solidarity, I think, when we begin to talk about emotional matters, it's easy to get along in the community, I think general conversation is about improving our mental health status. I agree with what. A senator would agree that we would agree to try to solve the problems of the individuals who live and have a legal home at the Land Hospital at the Ring Road, to join, hopefully with a greater portion of the legal committee, to solve their problems, thereby releasing valuable space that is no doubt needed. Also, I would like to point out that we should also try to gather together to establish this assignment, entitled Talk About Children/Family Bridges, because the effects of such projects are very widespread throughout the country. What happens is that many people are trained to talk to their children and parents with mental disorders about these matters, how you can talk about them, and I think that there would no doubt be a tremendous relief for very many children if they could talk about their parents'mental disorders and accept them as children can say that their parents have diabetes or other approved crevices. I think we're going to help a growing number of children who are experiencing a great crisis of existence, so it's not as strong as it is. The cost of a $28 billion operation. K. I think it would be a particularly effective and inexpensive operation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u154	Madam President. Thank you. A candidate for the answer, of course, could agree more with the answer, but it is also interesting to hear it. This is discussed by a candidate of knowledge. Similarly, I found that many of our guests in this morning were very effective and have already done things in support of children and their families and the importance of taking this group to the surface, removing their clothes, breaking down the walls, or the way we want to say it. Without a doubt, then, the education and effort of the kind that are there under a very promising team. I can agree with what. A senator's success has been in opening up the discussion on these matters, and you put your hopes in things like the strategy. The feeling I've had is that, in the past, we've been neglected by a group in Iceland and we haven't been able to do what we should. It is, in effect, inevitable to reach that conclusion. All too many have fallen between systems, and we were reminded of this morning's fact that there are absolutely necessary activities and services in this area and to people who are struggling with volunteers who receive very little or almost no support from the public, but perhaps they are at the end of some of the most important work that is to be there for people when they have trouble to door, with open arms so that they can look to them. Returning to the system is not always as easy. The question, of course, is, Should we not also consider making arrangements for some financial support to such ones, perhaps in a better way, to provide this first help or to support our community? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u155	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I think we should take a closer look at whether a free organization should get extra money on this job, but then we should also remember the words directed to us this morning at a meeting of the health committee that very many are dealing with two problems, mental health problems, and other factors that may be both a cause and a result; we do not know which is the beginning. We haven't discussed it here in this place, in this chair, the problem of those with two analyses, he's very large. It is incredibly effective to get this course in here and to bring the Senate resolution into the council, and certainly for the first time it is made. Hence, it is even more enjoyable, and hopefully it is the beginning of a long and intense discussion. It has been a difficult situation and a lot of cloth, but it should also have been that in recent years much water has flowed to the sea. There has been considerable progress, and the discussion has opened up to a great deal, and there is a number of factors involved. I would especially like to mention Héðinn, the son of Unnsteinsson, who has been afraid to talk about his experience, so that someone is named at random, as a patient from the system and from other sources. Then there are groups on Facebook, young people with mental disorders, and other factors like them; this has happened very quickly in the past ten years or so. To date, this was a formidable challenge to those diagnosed with mental illness who fought with him and those around him. There's been a lot to do, but there's a much longer way to work with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u156	V.E.G. President. I was wondering what. paritaprevir A Oddný with a Harðardóttir name, such as not in the news, only at the end of my talk when I left the chair, the president admonished me to speak to the senator correctly. I have nothing against being reproved if I make mistakes in the chair, but I don't like it if I don't. I reviewed my speech again, and I addressed it with the correct name, why. paritaprevir Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir. It didn't exactly come out, I forgot my last name for a while, but I took it right. When my speech ended, I felt that it was the best. The first time the President beats the bell, and there's no need to, for it seems to be foreign in the councilroom, and has been, for men to hit lightly first. It's really uncomfortable, I don't know if she's experienced it herself, but I'm sorry it's done again.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u157	The president will have to deal with these words, he will be careful not to hit the bell very hard, but for the first there was a why. The senator should address a candidate in the hall with the first name, you and, if I recall, would direct his words to the point. paritaprevir Oddný new G. Harðardóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u158	Madam President. There are several things I would like to return to my second talk about the budget bill before 2016, and I didn't really have time to go first. Some of the things that have been going on in the past or have recently been discussed, I'd like to take care of them too. The first thing I'm gonna say is, word over. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir. paritaprevir Her platoon brother, Frosti the son of Sigurjónsson, here in the setting of the taxation of pensions. There was a question why. paritaprevir Hauksdóttir, my daughter Hauks, told me that she felt that it would be good for her to leave the arrangement that we have now built on for some 20 years or more that pensions would be desired but that the men would pay taxes on paying a pension when he arrived. Of course, we do not discuss this new approach. But I have some strong opinions in this case, and I don't want to miss one chance to argue with certain things in that relationship and, of course, do not need complicated arguments to show that this is one of Iceland's biggest cases, that's how it works with our pension and how their interaction with the tax system and the improvement system will be in the decades to come. I don't think there's a more dangerous or irresponsible idea than going in and picking up government tax from pensions on the way into the fund. If we did now, for the next 10, 15, 20 years, while the pensions are still building up and before the nation's date has changed what it will make, we are taking a huge loan in the future, and there's nothing else to explain. It is quite simply so that we would be in part to cross into a flow system. For one thing, we'd have to split up the pension system because we couldn't mix up the taxed and un taxed crowns inside the funds, either in fruit or in another way, and there would be considerable headaches to split the pension system as it goes completely in two places before and after a change. Second, that's how people in Iceland are now retired, about 12% of the population, if I know correctly, but it's going to 20% in the long run, maybe 25- to 30 years old. Then I'm going to ask the members of the council: How will we handle the expenses involved in this altered series of ages after 30 years, if the government's tax returns from committed pensions, and if we had used them all for the generations before, we would be sending the taxpayers after the 30-year bill? They should deal with medical, social, and other medical expenses because of a large relative number of elderly persons in the future. There is hardly a more dangerous or irresponsible idea than this - in - the - future growth of generations at a time when national dating is changing. Sadly, our uncles and friends, the Faeroes, shook hands, or fell into the grip of an irresponsible right government that changed the intelligent arrangement exactly as this idea goes on. If it's dangerous for us Icelanders, I'm even more worried about it because, if anything goes wrong, keeping their young people at home or getting them back after study. Faeroe Islands are older society than we are, and the age change or the biological trend is further advanced in the Faeroe Islands than in ours. In this way it is positive over a period of years. It makes life more comfortable for the generation that triggers the change, while it is receiving the simultaneous income from the deposit and does not depend on the expenses of the growing number of retirement workers. The best guarantee that in Iceland we will manage our expenses and the challenge of living decently, when they become perhaps a fifth or a quarter of the nation, that they will fall to the growing tax pay to the state and rural society by paying the pensions of that group. Each generation takes the savings, accumulates, and then pays its taxes when they enjoy the pension. While I stand here with my breath in my nose in a chair at the General Assembly, I will speak strongly against this. These ideas came around the collapse of 2008◯2009 and settled down. Some went so far as to want to go directly into the pension fund as they are today and reach the unscathed part to use, the mild blow of the crisis, said men, but then they would not have been there in the future, when a growing number of people need care and care in the future. Who would have paid for it? Taxpayers in the coming decades. This has become a means of throwing accounts into the future, and nothing else, has ever been, and will never be anything else. They may be just as honest as saying that they just want to borrow to have it right now and have their children and grandchildren pay it. Secondly, I'd like to say, because of the eruption as a dog. paritaprevir The Brynjar of Níelsson's son took here yesterday, if I recall well, and mentioned me, and the press have taken it for sport. Hv. A senator made a big point of saying that it was, I think he just said hypocritically, that the person standing here allowed himself to criticize the government because he intends to bring in the elderly and the microchills as much as the rest of the population this year because we had done the things we did in the spring months of 2009. In doing so, you just wouldn't have the right to criticize the government. I'd love to have some. paritaprevir Brynjar the son of Níelsson in the hall, former president of the police club, for he now has to endure, the man, that he may be taken at times, as he often does about others. I don't think it hypocritical to point to the obvious fact that the government and its supporters are going to make compensations for the elderly and the microchip in this year, beyond what others have already received. And not only this year, but last year, the same thing happened a little bit during the meeting. If we take this in numbers, then at the turn of 2012/2013, January 1, 2013, basic pensions and social security increased 3.9%. By the end of the year, the pay number in 2013 had increased by 5%. Although not much, this is the year's best, it is only a small percentage, but it is a slightly higher degree of age and disability for those who look at the improvement compared to the average increase in pay. In 2014, the pension increased by 3.6%. But what was the result of the pay sheet? On average, 6.7%, more than 3 percentage points of pay increased over the base value of the improving systems. What is this year, the year we now debate? Yes, the government of their chivalry increased the improvement by 3%, the base value by 5,649 k. January 1st, last. However, the pay sheet is likely to return by a return of 6.5 to 67%. How, then, has the development become over the two years that the government is truly responsible for? Whether we take with us in 2013 is of no importance. In effect, it is our responsibility. Then, in total over the two years of the current government, 2014 and 2015, the improvements have increased by 6.6%, if we use the simple method of adding up the percentages, which is natural mathematics, as human knowledge, but the pay sheet by 13%. That sparkling's over there. What did the advance team promise the last election? Not just putting aside all the losses of the former government, they said. No, they specifically stated in their campaign and advertisements that they should correct their dress. It did not deserve to be different, so it should be returned to 2009 and the full improvement of sensibilities and disability - pensioners, not only to cut off all the impairments, but also to haul them back to the same place so that there was no shutdown. But this has not been the government. Not only has she neglected to keep her promise to correct the harrowing process since the last term, she is looking at the sound of action every year of her work, and she will continue to do so next year if something is wrong. These are the facts. These are the numbers, apart from the fact that I feel that the numbers and numbers of operators are reading yesterday and yesterday and yesterday and the days below all the caves. The senators here present a prescription from the Ministry of finance to their pocket readings about billions and billions and percent and compare it with - what? Compare this with the development of prices. It's always that way. We've heard them come in the symposium yesterday and today and compare the development of pensions with the development of prices. Why do they not compare their salary? This is because they don't like the comparison and they're trying to make it look good by mixing the development of the index price into this which is not relevant to the comparison because the spirit 69.g. Social security law is completely clear, and it's the same as the law on unemployment benefits, that it's the salary development that's supposed to be involved. It is useful to see that there is a security valve in the article that the benefits should never rise below the price level, that is, in order to achieve less than the price of pay, the latter should be valid, but not to misuse it in this misleading comparison. V.E.G. A government should recognize that it does not have a cause for protection in these matters. She's lost her discussion. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson deserves credit for acknowledging it. But from the platform of his party brothers and sisters in the government's support team for it, he is quick to give it to his brothers and sisters. He'd almost be taking his hat off. I have to say, it's with sad experiences here to listen to the highest. Social Ministers come up here and read a scale from a financial minister, take the number soup, put together the billions, and try to confuse people by comparing this with the price of development. The same did the first vice president of the welfare committee today. Why don't you just leave it to the highest. Secretary of finance himself reads his mother, don't you think? I would have been better able to see that a social minister or 1st President of the Social Services Committee had at least implied that they were only hurting their inner self. I just didn't feel comfortable that the people you were hoping for could be relied on in this way of speaking. The defense of comparing this to conditions in the spring months of 2009 did not even realize whether Iceland would be bankrupt or not is now entirely affordable, and there was no basic pension at that time. What was done then was about increased income - related declines, and they took care of it as they could, trying to get the savings they claimed would also have to walk to some extent over this system, that it would be the best place for them to carry it. Of course, it was the only way to do so through income - related declines, to take on more people who made significant other incomes, and to defend those who had nothing else, and that was done. It was done perfectly throughout the collapse period. It was not complicated by the income insurance, the survival insurance, and the bases were not reduced by the exception that they were frozen as well as by the second year 2010, so, of course, it was accepted. Then, contracts were fully implemented in 2011. Of course, this was difficult, of course, for us, not for the fun of it and for political responsibility, but for me, in the light of the circumstances we were dealing with and what we had to do, I am not ashamed of it. I accept political responsibility for this, but I believe that we have done what was inevitable. What was in store for everyone else? Don't they remember? Surge rates and substantial income gains on one side, which, of course, laid the burden on the more fortunate revenues and more attributed to what we tried to do and on the other major savings measures all over the whole system. The big picture in the deportation of these budgets is tragic. It's a great thing to hear the executives come up here and try to beat their chests because they're about to make some impressive conclusion, with less than 10 billion leftovers on the government budget in 2016. I said yesterday that, of course, this situation in the economy, on the 5th or 6th year of economic growth, was meant to return a handsome share of the funds. We should be strengthening the foundation of the Kingdom trajectory. Underlying government management should have been well established since its recovery in 2013. Or when should a government fund be driven with significant change if not at Year 5 or 6 in a swing, in interest? That's a small table for a backside punch, Mr. President. 9 billion leftovers, such as this down to now after people found 1.2 billion that they forgot somewhere last night, which is now telling their own history of the chaos of practice, and this is now 9 billion left over. It's in the margin of error. We all know that there's something wrong with these matters. It is so small, 1,2,1.3% of the sum of the budget, less than 0.5% of the gross domestic product, and there can be very little change to disappear all of a sudden if there's a slight rebound. Of course he could be bigger, there's uncertainty on both sides, but that's the way it is. Am I alone in saying that this is not a success in the financial affairs of which to boast? No, it's not, Mr. President. Not often do I deliver the morning edition in a public address. I don't wear it every day. But I had to look at the front page in front of me earlier. And what does it offer to read on the cover of the Morning Press? It is talking to some Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson, and what does he say? He's really worried about this, I have to say it. No, he did not say that, but there was another man who used that expression. But he is concerned that the development of government spending is not in line with what has been proposed in collective agreements, that is, this vast amount of government business that places heavy loads on the job and presses down to levitation in the next few years. Clearly, it is spoken from the right person's viewpoint. So, with the permission of the President: ▪ This is even more serious than merely a complimentary matter. Government funds have been thus laid down, and the State has to respond with considerable economic management. - Then comes what I'm mostly going to quote. --in this place in the economy, should be a good leftover of the government's business, as Þorsteinn says. This is exactly what I said yesterday, and we are not political brothers, me and the Þorsteinn Víglundsson. However, we wholeheartedly agree on this. In this place in the economy, there should be good leftovers of government management. And it continues: He believes that when the economic growth is over, the kingdom will continue to become a significant home base to show the difference. That's exactly what I said in my speech yesterday again. This is to say that once the economy is altered, as soon as something is beating in the backslash, the government's holding. It's just that way. There's no ◯Baffer, there's no reserve there, while the stock of the state is year after year in irons. But that's what, unfortunately, the present government is going to do. After a dramatic improvement in the survival of the State of each year since 2008, it is being successful in the same process three years in a row where the underlying government's management in the removal of irregular joints is equal to zero. That's all. Mr. President. Still, I see that things I've been meaning to come in on have not yet arrived. I was going to do a little more research on the land hospital, health care, and so forth, but I have to wait for a better time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u159	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a fine speech. I'm kind of wondering what I'm thinking. The senator's excellent speech, which we heard from what we heard. 2.m. Smoke. N., Sigurjónsson Sigurionson, who gave a speech he wanted to mean that there was a billion a minute in savings, i.e. in ways of increasing government income. He took 2030 minutes to explain how we could improve the government's income by 203/430 billion a year. There was one point where I couldn't agree with it. Sigurjónsson I'd like to ask him about the bank's state-respect fees so that the economy can be protected at times. Now it's not officially the state responsibility of the banks, but it's like what. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson said, and I agree with you, the inevitable state of responsibility on the banks. I wonder what. A senator feels that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u160	Mr. President. I also listened attentively to a talk given at the beginning of my life. paritaprevir Frosti, the Sigurjónsson of Siglejo, found it more interesting. I've been on a committee with what? A senator, on the Economic and Business Committee for two years, who is well acquainted with his views. This includes what I have to admit is that I have been thinking about things, and maybe I'm becoming gradually more and more agreeing with them. Sigurjónsson The real reality is that de facto is the state of responsibility for the deep things of banks. This has taught us how to do so. If you have problems, you don't trust to lose them. This has been the experience here, and it has really happened from all over the world, with the exception that in Cyprus men are better off on top of their own. Is it not best, then, to face it and just say that it's government insurance, and you pay for it? If we get away with it or we say we can get away with it against the European rule we're bound by, i.e. I think, in many respects, it would be the closest thing to changing the deposit fee into the deposit fund and investing on the state guarantees we've made to all of the city's deposit companies.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u161	A respectable president. I'd like to go into another show, since I don't agree too much. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Sigurionson, or rather, I believe, who wanted to find a way to reduce the control rate of the Federal Bank by 1%. Of course, I'd appreciate it if the Navy dropped its direction, but I feel very uncomfortable when members of the council or politicians in general begin to interfere with direction growth. I'm not saying that cash banks are all wise, or, in fact, some institutions over their heads, but rough. A senator suggested an idea that I had a little problem understanding myself about how to give the Federal Bank a tool to use instead of having a high rudder interest. He rightly considered how high fliers can also be an economic threat, but he envisioned that if such a change occurred, the country could be saved about 33/4 billion in interest. [[The president calls.]] I wonder what. A senator, where the dog is. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson is not at the moment, he can teach us something about this approach.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u162	Mr. President. Now I may not have noticed exactly what ideas I had. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Sigurjónjarnsson mentioned were thinking for this purpose. But I know that he's had ideas like these that he shouldn't pay interest on binding money, and he doesn't, in a sense, transfer money from the banks to the Secret Bank, instead of letting the Secret Bank pay interest to the banks, he doesn't, and there's no money in the bank without bearing fruit and can affect the way the Navy uses the machines. Ideas. The senator to take the pecuniary printing power, i.e. Not in the sense of printed bills but in a mere version of a new amount of money being passed by banks, making a national fee, as Swiss people intend to vote, is also interesting in these products. Of course, having a high physical growth is bad. They don't want any community to have it, for economic reasons. I'm also ideological against high sciences. [[The president calls.]] If real - life growth is higher than average long - term economic growth, it is merely the transfer of valuables from people to money owners, that is all. [[The president calls.]] Thus, I am both economic and ideological against high interest. [[The president calls.]] That does not mean, however, that it is always possible to blame and reproach the Society for everything. The government is also responsible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u163	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, a very good speech. He brought in many things that could be considered and reasoned. He concluded his talk about the big film and quoted Þorsteinn Víglundsson in the Morning Press about how we see the rest of our budgets, depending on where we are in the mood. I wholeheartedly agree that it would be best for us to bring in handsome leftovers, but like a dog. In his speech, a senator forced us to take in an incision to cope with the situation, the crisis that existed. Everyone had to take on the burdens, including the load. Older citizens and cripples on vacation markets and declines that are being blown off. [[The president calls.]] It's just a fact that this area has to be added heavily to the spending side, despite the increase in income, so it's about to turn around. [[The president calls.]] Is it not proper to do this with mildness and try to improve our basic service?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u164	Mr. President. Yes, I also specifically stated in my speech yesterday that I am not criticizing the government specifically because I did not use more restraint or cut down. I find it hard to point to something, though, where the government has raised funds that I don't think were fully needed. It is simply sanctified because we know that there has been a great need in many parts of the world, and we still do not meet it everywhere, as in investments in the interior and in other places. But, of course, I've been severely critical since the first day of the government's release of a lot of money. It is so that if the government hadn't, if they had kept the taxation level, not all of them the same taxes, but the total taxation level at the same site as it was in 2013, we'd be making 40 to 50 billion more income. All right, if they wanted to put down a wealth tax because they wanted to be good to the richest percent of the country, why not try to find another source of income if they thought it was better? [[The president calls.]] That's what I'm critical of, and that's what's wrong, and that's why it's not the 30-40 billion leftover on the state funds that should be.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u165	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. This is about the income side. It is obvious that these are changing the tax system to make it easier for one another to trigger the economic unity of homes, to ease the burden of the households, and to increase the cost of money, and this is all happening. Of course, growth is increasing, and the income of a government fund is increasing. Hv. In his talk, a senator addressed an interesting talk. paritaprevir Frosti the son of Sigurjónsson, and I'm going to join with you. A senator who reasoned that we should not tax pensions into the future. But I'm gonna ask who. A senator thought that he was concerned about using his special kickback as a cash balance device for Iceland's Secret Bank, thus extending down high steering growth. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u166	Mr. President. Only on the tax business. The fact that humans are always simplifying, and the fact that humans are becoming a simple tax system, can we just do anything, is that it? Is it possible to reduce taxes to expansion, and when the economy starts to warm up, can the state's budget be applied to zero in a blundering up in the economy, which is a check for down cycle and sliding, as soon as it hits the rear rocks? Is lowering hunting costs some kind of simplicity on the tax system? Does it simplify something to take a little less? That's not very good. With ideas of using unconventional methods like these, I always enjoy these ideas, and this is one of them, but I haven't quite grasped it yet, I have to admit it. I haven't. I like a variety of ideas. A senator, and he is fertile, has the great advantage of sometimes thinking outside the box and having the courage to set and reflect on new and fertile ideas. I think it's good for us to have such parties here with us, but of course, we always leave ourselves the right to weigh whether we're going to buy it or to convince ourselves that it's right. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I have not yet been convinced that this is a proper way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u167	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's fine speech is presented to him. Hv. A senator says that we directors are using something in numbers, trying to confuse people with some percentages and billions, but the matter is simple. We've been talking about that this year's annual social security benefits are raising the worst, that's, like, single people, who live alone, who have chores. There has been some debate as to whether it's fair to take your chores with you, but with household chores, they go to 246,902K. while the minimum wage is 250 yous. K. [[The president calls.]] After the New Year's season, these improvements, with chores, have become higher than the lowest wage. Is it a combination game?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u168	Mr. President. I think it's the only number there was. The members of the board can make it look like this by staging their household accounts and paying from the social aid laws into the system that they have achieved their social security status. I've noticed that this is a go-to-go. The representatives of the Quantum Community have immediately objected to this, stating that it is being mixed up with things that are not foreordained. What we've always been talking about is the money in the social security system and the question of how they're going to get paid in the country. These are the facts that I covered, among other things, from what already lies ahead on the development of financial reforms in 2013, 2014 and 2015 and the development of the 2013, 2014, and a very likely result this year. Then you will see the failure, or the error, I was going through. No, it's probably the right number. A senator went along, but she is not new. [[The president calls.]] The reality is that over the years, there were compensations to combined, or even higher, than the lowest wage, but, fortunately, there are so few people in the hatches, as we know.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u169	A respectable president. We can debate whether it's reasonable to take your chores with or without them. But it's a insurance agency that pays both benefits and compensation. If we don't have the remuneration, we'll have 87% of the minimum wage. We can debate whether they should be smaller or greater, but at least by this means it will be a little longer or just below. But I'd like to ask you why. A senator for the change in the memory of the part. He has talked about, mostly in his first speech, about how little build-up the infrastructure in the bill and the changes in the majority of the items, but I miss that the changes in my share will be 1.5 billion in the road model, while in other parts there will be no dollars. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It does not go to ports, photo optics, or health services in the country, just in the Land Hospital.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u170	Mr. President. Of course, the minority did not go through making a new budget as a whole by making adjustments. It would have been well worth it and deserved it. Of course, we would have had to offer a total chested financial bill and a totally catchy income products as an alternative to what the government has to offer. Sadly, though, it is easier said than done for those who have nothing but themselves to do such things, we do not have a ministry minister or any other such battle behind us. What is often done is that people choose what is most important to them to emphasize what other vision they would like to use. [[The point is, there are no infrastructure.]] Yeah, it sure is. I don't know any better than the priority for the roads. Of course, we can take everything, but we do it by making them a place, the Land Hospital and the Hospital in Akureyri, which I think most people agree on is what is more important. So, of course, in other areas, there may be a Witness, some effort for those in charge, and we do not see reason to begin to add to it if there is something that can be left to live with. [[The president calls.]] Then we will choose what we believe should be our priority.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u171	A respectable president. One of the less subtle things you have observed in this discussion during the past few days is the comparison between the executives and the Shippings of this budget on health care, pensioners, and disability during the year and in 2009 or during the last term. To compare measures and equipment after five to six years of continuous economic growth with the beginning of a terms of economic independence that had been lost by the nation's making of budgets and running the State with a plan and with the help of the International Remuneration Fund, it's a wonder it's been said that it should be done. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the council because he was merely involved: Is that not, however, that despite the cuts faced by humans at that time, there was a contribution to health care at 7.5% of GDP? [[The president calls.]] In 2014 it was 7%, so at least they kept on defending this important system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u172	Mr. President. Thus, the welfare spending, including unemployment improvements, increased as a proportion of land production over the years. They did. It was simply because they increased in various ways. They also protected them from surgery beyond other levels, there was always a minimum cut down or nothing in health, education, health insurance, and unemployment benefits. It was all the years. Of course, this resulted in significant increases in the proportion of these expenditures. They were probably given more priority than ever, or later, in the sense that expenses for these matters were being spent beyond the problem. In addition, we need to remember about health matters that there is an underlying trend that needs to be considered. This comparison of government officials today is even more absurd, since all of us know that there is an underlying demographic trend in the country that only makes this spending seem to increase proportionate. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u173	A respectable president. I appreciate that answer. It is amazing to witness the low degree of this discussion. I've been watching her abroad since this week, but I think the bottom's been reached with the worst branch. Prime Minister in the newspaper of News this morning shows primarily how badly he is in general debate over political politics, not being able to face the general human language. All who have tried Icelandic health systems during recent losses or have someone who has needed to know what the situation is. Trying to make people believe that there is a miracle here or doing good things here, insults the common sense of people in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u174	Mr. President. Yeah, well, I don't think anybody hit the nail as thoroughly on the head as on the head. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson from the management team, when he simply honestly admitted that the management team has lost all of this discussion. It's not been a very good day, I think, at the highest. The government and it would help if we put together our arguments with older ones and poorer ones and the passage of long - suffering children from the land, which only pierces the heart of each decent person. And then how to do it. Prime Ministers stand up to the desk and respond to a person with language and national background. What I thought was funny about that article, however, is that he was never mentioned by name, the man who everyone knows and sees in his hand that he is being answered, he is never mentioned by name. He's kind of named, the top of the class. Fewer will it be beyond the world of imagination. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The government is not good at taking criticism. But we've got to get in the game and hold it, even if it's quite early, to at least give it some attention. Some in the ranks of the management team do not get high grades in speaking to them or giving them such proper attention. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u175	A respectable president. I heard an earlier talk and listened carefully to it from time to time. 2.m. Smoke. n., Sigurjónsson Sigurionson. He discussed ways to increase the government's income each year by 20 to 30 billion. He gave his talk over about 20 to 30 minutes, often saying that the talk would save the nation a billion dollars a minute. I'm sure it seems to each of you, but I think it's a reason to discuss the ideas that came up there, see if I have more time for anything else, or I'll give another speech. But I have to say about the ideas that often come into question. The senator said that they are more often than not very interesting. I don't always agree with him, I sometimes agree with him, and sometimes I agree with him about the problem, but not the solution, and sometimes I understand the reason. A senator is going without necessarily being convinced that the problem is not clear or that the solution is the right thing to do. But it's a debate that I think is part of society, and particularly the Congress world is way too small, the debate over this phenomenon that we take for granted into our society, and everyone thinks they understand, but nobody really does; money. Money is only a phenomenon in our society that determines how we share in quality and service, how it is produced, and what is involved in human behavior in the economy. The first idea, I counted a six in a speech. The senator is at ease. A senator proposes that by not selling 30% shares in the Bank of the Lands, we can improve Kingdom funds over the next year and thereafter probably about 46.5 billion each year. It involves a ideological debate about the role of the State, especially in a competitive and money market, and what the role of the State should already be on the bank system in itself. The banks that were privatized at the turn of the century were now owned, and there were problems related to this in my opinion. However, since privateization, it was found that these banks - these are my interpretations - did not know how to handle money. They did not know how to wield the power of banks, banks that have the power to create depositable accounts, loans, or, like a dog. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson would say, and I can say, at least in a large sense, make money. I must say, the idea of not selling 30% shares at the Lands Bank doesn't seem to me, in terms of budget, not bad, at worst, interesting. I was wondering if the numbers are accurate. I haven't done it myself, so I'd love to get more inputs from others on that matter, but the idea is interesting, and it's worth discussing. However, the question arises, Is the State's normal role in running banks, which is a natural, legitimate question? It's understandable, in my opinion, that many people are Greek on it, I am myself. On the other hand, I have a lack of confidence that this power belongs to the privates. The problem with power is that often it can not be eliminated simply; it can be moved, distributed, or some such thing. And as long as one person can promise another something, as one person promises to repay something in a certain way, he can make money. That's the problem. As we consider the role of the State in the money - making process, we need to ask ourselves, " What is the normal balance of this money - making power between the state and any other person in a town under the laws of the market? ' Now we live in a very small economy where the rules of capitalism, which aren't all crazy, some of them are tiny, but not all of them, and can even be logical in the big context, break down into such a small economy. One of those rules is the idea of competition. In order to become competitive, there are a number of people who need to be in the market, the more. The bigger the economy, the better it is for competition. But we live in a small economy where there are few members, not just in the Generals, but in the community over their heads, there are few individuals, we are only about 330,000, who are extremely few people. The aim of having an active competitive market here in some area or industry is far from being welcome. We are sensitive to special and even monopolys. When there is a few competition at a bank market, at the market where capital basically exists, it must be noted that it may be reasonable to compete among very different parties, i.e. The private and the state of state. I have to say, I also feel the same way when it comes to other language groups, including the media. I actually think it's normal to have government media in Iceland, just because I think it's normal -- it's normal, but, you see, it's wise to have a private media player in competition with someone they'll never totally be able to handle in the competition, you see, the state. I don't care about the bank market. They have to be competitive, but in such a small economy there's gotta be something that's going to speed up the competition. Now I have from time to time to complain that I think it's the best. Icelandic people do not have much merit. It is not necessarily the Icelandic nation itself to blame, it is, in my opinion, largely because of the characteristics of the Icelandic crown and its inflation tendencies, but it remains that this phenomenon, competition, is not very active and will not be very effective until there are a lot more people who are not expected to be caught at hand. On that basis, I find an interesting idea. A senator about simply not selling the part of the Lands Bank and by classical capitalist ideas that have to do with this particular aspect of the economy I have to say that there's a reason why I should discuss an exception to another excellent idea, see that competition causes the consumer to get the most for what he can get. There are a few ideas. A senator who I didn't trust to write about until I've had the opportunity to look at them better, but not long since I heard the talk, she was delivered earlier today, but the fifth idea if I thought it was right, interests me more than I see a fault I'd wanted to discuss better. Now you can't blame him. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Siglejosson for not being here, I gave him way too short notice that I was going to discuss this matter, but he thought it was too bad he couldn't be here and go back, but we'll just take it later. However, the fifth point in his imaginative collection is that the interest rates of the United States Bank alone can be reduced by about 4 billion each year. The rationalization as I have written it down with me, with the notice that I may have misunderstood something of what was. A senator may say or write down incorrectly, it is this: The pager pays back the rest of his business to the state, while paying for the responsibilities of binding that the banks give to the Court because of the requirements for binding. If I get it right, the idea is that the zebra simply stopped paying this exercise so that the bank's money is kept behind its watch or wherever it's stored may not be all that matters, but at any rate, the Sullaban does not pay interest on commitment. This is an interesting idea, and quickly it seems reasonable. We've decided that we're going to have a tie duty to try to prevent the bank from getting into trouble - which for some reason is the State's role if it is done, there's another interesting debate - but on the other hand, I think, despite what may seem at first, we must also take into account the commitment of the slave's duty to the bank to decide that they should meet, they should keep this money. Of course, money is not in use while it is in storage, which means that inflation reduces the money and that doesn't necessarily make sense to me. Of course, if the bank does not have interest, its real value would have to be kept at least. I don't think that's a good idea. I don't know what it is. Sigurjónsson I'd like to know what he has to say about it. Maybe there's a reason. But this leads us to a different circle of friends during this discussion, you see, the insurance policy and the urge to get rid of banks of the interests of controlling inflation. Then I come to the sixth idea as a boy. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson came in, with regard to a historical issue that is stately responsible for the heart of business banks. If you ask someone about the law letter, if it's a state responsibility in the back of the banks, that's not the case in itself. It's the deposit insurance fund that's supposed to be living up to the financial needs of banks when it's too late. It is not a new story from economics that when banks fail, and they are not new but, that is, hundreds of years old problems, the state is moved to help the banks. I wondered if seven and a half minutes will be enough to cover all that is involved. Hv. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson here said that whether this state's responsibility is direct or indirect, it's inevitable. I wholeheartedly agree, it is absolutely inevitable. It also has to do with the role of banks as highly founded if we have developed a system specifically designed to keep banks under control, the moral questions arise about which legal bank the bank is at hand. It's a question I'm not gonna answer here and I don't quite know how to answer if I'm supposed to say exactly as it is, but there's certainly a problem that's worth talking about. In order to overcome some indirect way, usually, the inevitable state responsibility for business banks - government affairs are cut off, society will be cut off if there's a bank crash - shutting down. A senator to knock on government responsibilities and to mention that number, up to 4% that he feels he can earn the state as many as 16 billion a year, an excellent amount of good works or just to be able to handle things when things go wrong. I think it's a very self-denial requirement if I'm saying it right now. Whether people like it or not, financial institutions take risks on behalf of the nation and there are risks when banks engage in their activities because they may be doing what we can call promises to simplicity, promises to pay these and promises to pay off others, etc. Then, when a loan line or something is blocked, a dam and a chain reaction is formed that can destroy everything. It is a system hazard that affects the nation and the state funds. I think it's normal, for the same reasons I find it normal to pay income taxes to finance the health system, that banks amass response plans for such a shock and financial success. It's not even certain that 4% would last long enough. Of course, the same concerns, the same ones that arise when an idea arises to have a company or someone else pay something, that the cost of a customer happens. I guess you're right. And my answer to that is that it must simply have it. We need a response plan for a bank crash. We cannot again allow the attitude of a bank crash that nothing could go wrong. That was the mentality, as crazy as it is now. Similarly, we cannot assume that we can foresee exactly what goes wrong, for there are quite a number of things that can go wrong in the banking system, though the overall appearance of banks is usually similar. Whatever the case, as the banking system expands, the responsibility and responsibility of the bank on earth is sure to come on the nation and its wealth. So I think it's a good idea. A senator, who would support her despite the harshness of the fact that the cost would, of course, land somewhere. Sometimes it is said that money is not free, and in fact, it is a more complicated claim than at first, but basically I think it is right. If you make free money, you reduce the value of all the others, it's not free of charge, it pays someone. Away from that, I believe something is important to the failure of the banking system. Because it's gonna go crazy, the only question is when and how much. Sometimes it is not even difficult to answer that question, such as it was not difficult to answer 2005 and 2006, and it was not difficult to observe. This brief talk has three minutes left, three minutes to discuss the key thought. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Windellsson, who is to stop assigning banks the task of operating here as a currency. This is not enough three minutes to say everything that can be said about it. But I have to say for myself that I am a snoutish solution to that purpose at the moment. Senator. I understand the problem he points to, to make it possible that the banks have 19 times the financial resources during a certain period of time. A senator speaks of as if he were automatically insane. But it's not automatically. It turned out that it was crazy, and it should have been revealed in 2005, 2006, or at that time because of this increase in funding in the banking system. But when a marvelous technological development becomes, it is not easy to predict how much money is needed into the economy to represent, or to represent, the·rou·siʹ centa, I just have to use that word, a respectable president, the growing value in society. When someone invents a new type of screen on a smartphone or when someone invents the Internet or something like it, you can't predict how much value will be created in the predictable future around it, and therefore you can't tell in advance how much money is needed in the economy. The worst way to do that, I would think that was that money growth was in some context of people's expectations, the expectations of the market, the expectations of investors of the anticipated increase in values. Of course, the problem is the same, that it is difficult to anticipate it by making investors a mistake. Many major investors make many big mistakes at the same time, and things like dot.com-bol, which exploded 2001 and then the bank collapse, though it was only a different kind of 2008. That happens when the market produces expectations that are unrealistic, and suddenly everyone finds the same conclusion at the same time that they are unrealistic, that all stop participating, and that the economy is fried. I can't see what's going on. A senator on this alleged problem that banks actually make money deal with the basic problem, which is, "How much money needs to be made? ' Where should they be born, and how should they go in traffic? These questions make me feel unsatisfied, and these are basic questions that the banking system, which can be shaken into, and I can do them like any other person, is designed to solve. It makes me feel bad, though, when you have experience with things like a bank crash making a whole new system from the foundation that no one knows how to work or whether you'll work rather than learn from the mistakes that I actually believe we're not doing enough to do, and continue into the future with the lesson given.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u176	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson speaking well. Hv. The senator spoke mainly of the budget or much of it from a talk. paritaprevir Frosti the son of Sigurjónsson, who drew attention earlier today. I listened to them talk, and it's like a skunk. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon said, "What?" paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson is often thinking outside the box, and we certainly live in the Congress Department of Congress. It's good for all. It's good for all. Most of the ideas turned in the core to save, and laid it hard. A senator had a pleasant career, but he turned to money policy and money policy. Well, we're always trying to achieve improved economic standards and to rely on the interaction of money policy and financial policies, and the financial laws are on the side of financial policy. I'd like to ask you a question last year. A senator to the source suggested in Article 6. Money, that the state has a warrant, and I reiterate the warrants, to sell shares at the Bank of Lands. Of course, when we determine how much savings can become, to my mind, what price is being spoken out of, what price is available for the 30% share that might be sold? I'm asking why. A senator's ideas and ideas. A senator has to sell the bank or not, i.e. Thirty percent share.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u177	A respectable president. I believe that in a large economy that worked properly, it would generally be a very bad idea to have a bank over your head. The reason I give this idea of an opportunity when it comes from what? paritaprevir Frosti's son Sigurjónsson is not in itself to save the government money. This may be suitable, but it may also be very unfortunate because it can follow very serious corruption in its own eyes, as many know. The reason I think the idea may apply in Iceland is simply the smallness of the Icelandic economy and my view that it is normal in Iceland, but in larger economic systems, that private people are competing with the government, something I know that many others who would often agree with me in economics are very against. But it has to. We're in a very small economy. There are various theories and subheadings under capitalists, which are certainly logical, varied, and testable. But here in Iceland, there are so many of these rules, so much of this mattress that breaks down by the smallness of the economy because of economics, and particularly the part of it that is scientific and measurable, is that we have many people, that we have a pretty large economy. Iceland itself is better at testing things than using theories that have been tested on giant economy, such as Germany and the United States, and even larger economic systems. It's based primarily on economic issues that I'm attracted to this idea but in itself it's not because it could save the government money. So even if I agree on the price, it's not the emphasis I have when I make an opinion of these teams. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u178	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson answers and will first say that I'm in a similar area with a basic view of employment structure in general and environment, as long as the market can handle it, it's the best thing to do. However, that is exactly the case. Senator, we have a few races here. There is a problem. This requires intensive monitoring, competitive surveillance, so that the transparency will make this work. I'll point out Norway in this case. Statoil is 67% owned by a state and owned by a private car. It's certainly a way to go the reconstituted route with state and private property. Telenor belongs to the state and owns a private car. Why? Because there are great interests and markets are not necessarily ready to handle this because of a few competitions. So I think we're gonna have to take it from that point of view and we're going to have a very close look at it. Senator. I wanted to add one question in a later answer, because I actually believe that it is. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson has no different qualities or qualities. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson and he likes to think outside the box, which is the basis for good reasoning. For the currency. What do you think? Senator? He mentioned the role of money, and we're discussing it on the basis of money policy. What is the point? A senator of the Icelandic crown as the country's future fee? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u179	A respectable president. I believe that the dollar is an extremely unfortunate currency and that it will always be. I believe, however, that even if we were to change currency, we would not escape the problems because we are simply a small nation with a small economy. So to exchange currency would be no magic for me. It would follow some sacrifices, and especially with regard to the exchange itself, at least if we were going to adopt another currency, which I think is not practical if I say so. I think that's really only two ways to do that. One may be entering the European Union, which is quite a capitalist by itself, and the other is to cooperate with a foreign bank, which we would in many ways be dependent on. Some have mentioned the Canadian dollar in that sense. It's a different idea that people don't like very much. I've wanted to discuss it better. I'm not convinced that it is necessarily realistic, but it is enough for me for now that it might be. At least I'm not completely convinced that she's completely hopeless. When it comes to the currency, I believe that the U.S. dollar has one important asset, one of which is highly serious. The advantage is that it is flexible, that it can go up and down to its price. The problem is exactly the same, that it can go up and down to its price. That means that when we have open and rich business with other countries, I don't talk about when it's become a relationship that's very close to the citizens and people take mortgages in foreign currency or something like that, it's getting really close and it's starting to be a very rich part of the citizen's life, then the economy will be as soon as all the factors for the weaker for these swings, which is, yes, a large part of the reason in this time, that everyone went off over the collapse. However, I think the irritability would have been the same with another currency at the collapse. He would've only broken out differently. [[The president calls.]] I kind of have to finish this by saying that I don't think it's a magic solution to change the currency, but I don't like the Icelandic crown.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u180	Mr. President. Hv. A senator became involved in bank cases and handled certain matters in that regard. I'd like to ask him about the Lands Bank, which is certainly now owned by the nation. There was a discussion earlier. Sigurjónsson This bank would be made into a community bank, and it would not be sold at 30%, a financial warrant. I just want to hear a little bit of attitude. A senator's concern about the role of such a bank might be the result that he would remain in the nation's possession and that his people would receive money from the bank. This year, it is about 26 billion, which, of course, is of utmost importance to a government fund. What duties do you think? A senator who would have such a bank would have if he became a community bank and then to the whole nation? Counts 'em out. A senator who is to be guided by only maximum efficiency or that he has some community obligation to a nation in a scattered land? Now the bank involved has been locking up the number of branch offices across the country. He doesn't seem to be shy about it, and then the bank manager of the Lands Bank says there's some sort of blues in there. He does not seem to have any social fancies with his people and that there is a great discrepancy in society and also between parts of the country and that he seems to have no obligation to serve the whole country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u181	A respectable president. This is a more complicated question, but I trust to give a very thorough answer in two minutes and even more. In general, I am not strongly religious that financial institutions can be expected to play a social role unless the social role is very well defined, very clear, and it is very clear and effective to monitor it, and it is part of the Agency's core role. The reason I like the idea of it anyway. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson is not that I think they're necessarily good for some social project, maybe it is, but that's not why I listen to it or think it could be good, but to ensure competition at the market, to ensure competition in the bank market. That's what's on my mind. But in the foundation of a large enough economy that worked well enough, I wouldn't be in favor of having a bank over my head. I think it's a very bad solution in itself. Therefore, I feel uncomfortable, at least immediately, to support solutions via the banking system for social solutions. I'd much rather solve this problem by a much simpler way, without mixing the banking system with it, simply by government grants or by promoting the independence of the local community or by giving more benefit to the rural areas, and by developing taxes. In this way, I am much more interested in solving problems. But to have a bank that is essentially a financial institution solves social problems, I'm not convinced that it's easy to pay. It's possible and maybe I'm wrong, but I'm not convinced about it right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u182	Mr. President. I was actually talking, not about banks playing any social role, but about their role in serving to all the people of the country. I was also asking if the money - making crisis should be in harmony with the obligation to do the service required by the people of the land, perhaps on that basis. Of course, there are many types of banks in our neighboring countries, and banks are guided by environmental considerations and many other viewpoints rather than merely maximizing the profits. We live in a complex world, and capitalists have used our global economy, thus stressing the importance of money. That's what I'm calling at what. A senator may not see whether there are bank functions that depend on him and result in profit, but he may have other goals, social goals, that people can have a chance of borrowing without having their whole life arranged and that there are environmental reasons for loans to companies and individuals, and some other encouraging factors. This would really be a new thought from when this old capitalist was in charge, and there was nothing else. Of course, the savings of the country, as in recent decades, may be said to have included this thought, although the environmental considerations may not have been so strong in the savings reserve. [[The president calls.]] But they went as they went.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u183	A respectable president. I have to admit that I'm not exactly aware of the social role that took place. A senator is appropriate. In case of a moment. A senator is thinking about something like that service exists elsewhere than in the big capital area or in the scattered settlements or something like that, I would make it more reasonable to have such banking institutions, which, of course, would only be savings when all comes to all things, if I understand correctly which I am not sure that I would do, somehow be linked to those parts of the country or those areas. I generally don't like the fact that things are being controlled from Reykjavík. I think it's a much more neat solution if it's my goal to secure the structure of the more scattered areas in the country that the value comes from there. We know it's valuable. They go to Reykjavík, and they are given up here, at the high Council in Reykjavík, or 150, if that is the case. I don't see any reason to mix these two. If we have a community bank, if we make the Bank of America a community bank with a defined community objective, I don't think it's really bad if it can be handled, if the surveillance is active, and if it's not on the basis of changing loans to some kind of charity, because charity is only supposed to be charity. But to lend loans that are inherently unfortunate is temptation to do so, and that is not a good idea. That idea contributed to the collapse of 2008, i.e. The whole apartment thing in America. There they felt that they had invented a means of making a loan that simply did not last. It turns out they didn't stand, and everything collapsed. [[The president calls.]] There is no free way out of this, and I don't see entirely reason to mix banks with social goals. But saying that, if there are such ways, I'm certainly willing to examine them. I don't want to rule them out at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u184	Madam President. I'm coming to this discussion right now, in the last two, three hours, for the first time this week because I've been in a foreign field at the United Nations Climate Conference in Paris, but I've had the opportunity to observe the discussion that has been conducted here through the Web sites and to celebrate the opportunity I have unexpectedly offered to give a talk about the government's budget. First thing I'd like to say is that being in the law may be the biggest problem, i.e. ... toruletheland. Arrangement is not an easy task. It is not easy to be in government, for the transition between politicians and political parties will occur when they come to the government to suddenly stand on every spear. A number of people come along and think that they have taken a sharp stand, and there is a great competition for the money available. It is desirable for all politicians to keep this in mind that a great deal of the glory involved in having more of the council and, therefore, more of the financial committee and more of it when it comes to financing from a joint fund. I'm not going to belittle it. However, what I have found shocking in this discussion, both in the autumn and in the last few years, and in the years that I have been at the council, is the tremendous attack on the subject, and my opinion reached a minimum in the discussion of the land hospital budget, when the hospital director had visited the committee and was subsequently accused by a representative of a body member of the body of the body to have attempted to use it with spiritual violence. Of course, it is not my job as a senator to give any grades to members of Congress or presidents for manners, courtesy, or rudeness or anything like that. They know what happens to such ones and those who witness such things. But it's worse when things are wrong and when the institutions are upset. If we are ever going to succeed in setting up the government's affairs and deciding how to do it as wisely and how to manage the money as possible, we must be able to have a conversation. To have a conversation, we must be able to be confident that the person we are talking to is speaking the right language, that it is not a question of compromise, and that the discussion is not being taken into consideration. Of course, without going to some grade on whether someone has been rude or something, it is not an offer that the chairman of a legal committee, in the autumn discussion, sees in some way the purpose of visitors is about themselves and that they are in some way a victim of some form of violence in that regard. It's not an acceptable presentation, and it's simply not possible to go to this discussion without drawing attention to the fact that this is unacceptable, absolutely crystal clear in my mind that this sort of presentation is below all costs and is part of the problem we have in politics in Iceland, i.e. not being able to talk properly, to make some reconciliations with us. I don't think there is anywhere as much opportunity as when it comes to the structure of the health system as is needed to get back to where we can be proud, content, and secure with the services available after all that we have accomplished. I don't think there's any more chance of creating a transnational reconciliation, a projection plan for a certain period of construction, a new land hospital, maintenance and management. What are some of the sums we are talking about when it comes to the chairman of the legal committee talking about spiritual violence on the part of the governor of the Land Hospital? He said that it would take 2.8 billion to keep the business going, 2.8 billion. In Iceland's total budget, it's not a huge amount, and it's certainly possible in some way possible to find an intermediary or landing that most people can agree on. No, more of the legal committee was not willing to do so. Interestingly, in view of the fact that in the last three financial laws, the current government and the top of the board have been criticized for not being able, being completely avoided, of creating a plan, plan, budgeting, structure plan when it comes to tourist living. At the first budget, the government was strongly criticized for misappointing, I think I'm right when I say that approximately 120 million were expected on the budget, which was then corrected for $380 million, and then again for an even larger amount and good if it wasn't the last of 850 million on budgets. It is all right by the government when the government or the administrative body cannot get around the business in the designated area to relax afterwards. It's okay. But when it comes to executives, government managers of the public institutions, the institutions we agree on, I believe all or as many of them, to be among the most important institutions of society, there can be no exceedance of anything, then there should have been no record of it. And if these professionals come to the branch office and claim that they lack less than 3 billion, it is said to be spiritual violence that is out of the question. It just so happens, because I'm in this comparison, that it's like posts corrections that the current government has set up when it comes to the internal development of tourist positions and tourism funds, which cut down close to the amount required in this contract. Since the beginning of this chapter of the budget, the discussion has developed to some historic low level that appeared in an article of the highest order. This morning, Prime Minister of the News magazine, which answers the article KáriCrumb Stefánsson's Son, a physician, and a scientist, who has severely criticized the priorities of the Icelandic government recently. I have to state in my part that I have been very pleased with the introduction Kári Stefánsson to this field and his tips and the maintenance, criticism, and participation he has shown in health discussions in Iceland. I think it reflects in many respects the concern of a large part of the public over the situation that has come up. Of course, it is as colorful a character as Kári Stefánsson puts forth his criticisms in a very dramatic way, but it is his right to participate in a democratic speech in Iceland. Materially, what he is saying is true. There has been a very serious budget in Iceland's medical system, and it is worth considering how it would appear to us in the priorities of the government, how to treat the injured and the sick in society. That's a worry. Of course, it's happy when it's the highest. Then the prime minister sees a reason to participate in the discussion, which must be on the goal. This must be a well - mannered prime minister of the nation. You can't accept that the discussion is at the highest level. The prime minister was guilty today. I'm a huge fan of the star war films, I've been watching them almost my whole life, and I like things where knights in these movies use the so - called power. Those who are best at it can wave their hands somehow in front of a guard and tell them: There is no need for anyone to show identification here. Then the guard believes that no one needs identification, and they get past the guard. In this amazing way, they can make people believe everything from heaven to earth. But there is no more like it, in the article the highest. The prime minister published today that he somehow feels that he is responsible for this power, he can say to the Icelandic people: They are doing a great work. Iceland's government is doing an amazing job when it comes to controlling the health system and building up the Hospital. Now, as it is, the present administrative body has claimed to support man's attack on massive structure. Still, the highest. Prime Minister, even if there are many years of work and a number of assessments of the location of a new land hospital, declared it at these last stages in the contemporaneous to start a new development, that the location needs to be examined a little better, although everyone agrees that this structure needs to be attacked, yet we need to take another ride on this location. It may be that the first part of the construction of a new hospital cannot be done until seven years after the first shovel is taken. This means that since the first shovels would be taken tomorrow, every day, every month, every year, and every year in this case, we will be closer to the health system, the landspike as it is now built up by itself. In many ways, the Land Hospital, the main hospital of the country, can be compared to a home car that has been tried to maintain as long as possible. All those who have, as I have tried, had an old car and tried to keep it in business for a long time know that it will come when they will not answer the cost of repairing it. In time, you'll have to buy a new one, like a rough one. paritaprevir Brins Níelsson's Brynjar pointed out of her familiar genius. There is nothing else to do, or to turn to some other service. Sadly, there is a situation that we cannot reveal when it comes to the health system. We can't bring the car down, we can't get this system to the point where it's no longer usable because humans have not built up. Human efforts have not been maintained, and humans have failed to provide measures to ensure that people escape from the classes that build up this system. Its principal value is the people behind it, although everyone then knows that there are things outside that are wrong and that need some sort of correction. The land hospital's house has been in the discussion by means of moisture, mold, leaks, and all sorts of adverse conditions, including that of the hospital being thrown into many buildings in several parts of the city. It's an old story and new, and there's no need to count it any more here, but it's heartbreaking to see that people don't have a special experiment, with some special initiative or play on the part of the board to settle this party, to create some kind of long-term plan, to stop pushing the case like a top. The prime minister repeatedly gets involved and tries to use this case as an example of how we can get Icelandic political speeches out of the low level and out of the low level it has been on all sides of the world for far too long. What must we do to get out of this? How can we do so in a better way? It's been over it a dozen times. We can do so by making it available for much longer notice for a financial bill. By taking care of the job. By making more decisions. For example, by not doing this in the fall when the law came forward and put it out of the highest order. Secretary of finance, but then it's kind of the highest. The secretary of finance and the Ministry itself, which brings the most extensive changes to their own bill. Is it not true that something is wrong when the Ministry for months of work puts in a bill, brings back a change of proposal to our own bill, and then we also face a number of changes in the budget? It is only to be expected that someone will be trapped in a situation like this. There's no one else to blame in such basics than the government's foreman. You see, if the foreman is poor, which I would like to claim is in this case, I think the current prime minister is the most historicly poorest prime minister in the republic. I don't think we've ever been in Iceland's political history having as bad as a foreman for prime minister. That's my opinion, and I have many reasons for that. The first one is that there is an absolute lack of conversation. There is a shortage of trying in some way to shift politics from the way they have been going. This week a man has observed that the prime minister especially comes to a radio station to say just that he was listening to another political officer interviewing at the same radio station and that he was hearing the wrong radio interview. This is in the spirit of reply to a question from what? paritaprevir Take Ólafsdóttir, which she offered for her last week's hunting expenses as high as she could. The prime minister said that he was an out of his mind. When men are poor and as bad in reasoning as they are at the highest. The prime minister is, then all those playing with him on his team will be poor, too, the highest. A minister of finance, which, in my opinion, has the ability to be a very successful and good politician, often shows very good rhythms. But with a team like this, in a team like this, he's gonna suck. He gives the answer to a question here in the Hall of Congress shortly thereafter from another reason. A senator who claims that he could not answer such questions as these are raised. He's also acting like the foreman. He needs to put forth the same effort in his struggle with the opposition to the government during the council. I don't remember hearing such language here, and you think in yourself, " What are some of these situations when they are going to participate in such comments? ' If this is the case, what plan are those in charge of the land giving the discussion? So why not just try to explain your opinion? Why is it not enough to say: I now disagree with what the radio interview said. Or, I don't agree with the questions asked? Do people need to come out here and say so to the face of men who ask questions at the General Hall that they have just some cockle? It's just some bullshit people are asking about. Unfortunately, it happens as pleasant a council as any of us. paritaprevir Brunes Níelsson's son when he has a foreman like the chief. Prime Minister, that there was sort of a half-witness discussion this week when he compared the equipment and conditions, the equipment that the current government, after a period of 5 to 66 years, has become micro- and pensional patients, compared with the equipment and measures taken by a government in 2009, left them with the largest economic collapse of the nation, when the Icelanders lost their economic independence and had to set up budgets year after year, not with tens of billions of subsections, but with hundreds of billions of subsections in cooperation with the World Bank and then said: What did you do? You were nothing worse than us. This is a far - reaching comparison and a ridiculous approach. So I blame them primarily for what is happening. paritaprevir Ermur Níelsson's Brynjar is in very bad company. It needs to be done, to get him out of it, and to get Icelandic politics out of the low level they are in under the leadership of these men. I would have believed it after this week, after watching from a distance with the discussion, that the government might as well have slipped away when I landed today after coming from Paris. I can't remember that any government has had as bad a time as the present government has in these last days. It's not a coincidence. It doesn't happen by itself. Men don't get to know each other because Kári Stefánsson just woke up in a bad mood that day. Public opinion is not that the government is not doing its job and that it sets the standards for health matters just because of nothing. I think it happened this week that should have happened a long time ago that much of the nation began counting down the days until that hopeless government. The prime minister with his dreary political bitch and his dreary talk has passed away. I know my words are big here. In fact, what it comes is no longer possible, neither materially nor in the conduct of the council hall. It is worth considering that we have certain rules and traditions to maintain a certain civility in human relations, such as addressing a minister as the Honourable and other senators as being honored, so that there are so few rules that people do not point their fingers in each other's faces and call each other evil names. But when it happens repeatedly, in the debate over these matters here, about the largest case in society that the prime minister himself behaves like a kid in speeches and literature, it just isn't acceptable, and then you can no longer act as normal and participate in it without pointing it out exactly. This is unacceptable. It's an unannounced presentation, it's an unannounced presentation, it's indiscriminate and it's coloring all the work of the government, this miserable and poor job management as the highest level. Prime Minister Davíð Gunnlaugsson offers us a series of times. That's why the government's in trouble. That's why there are releases everywhere. Therefore, we see extraordinary things happening, such as that the others and these are dragged into the Ministry to handle the other cases, and all kinds of contracts are made back and forth to create a policy in the others and in these matters, which are then published for the council as if nothing were taken for granted. What was the direction of the Supreme Court? Industrial and commercial secretary made up? That's what the politics of the country did? No. It's just a policy. It's just a new agency. It's a travel center. Actually, it's got the highest. Industrial and commercial ministers travel so much during this season that there is no need for a specific travel management center, but then only the special management center for its travel has been because the travel laws have been used. You can't expect us to move again in such situations. Iceland's politics will continue to suck as the managers behave in this way. You can't expect humans to change one way or another. There is no requirement for government opposition, for the administration parties, to be included in my section that they allow themselves to be offered such behaviour repeatedly, over and over and over again, and be active in such a dreary government government that is expressed by prime minister to take to heart all kinds of government projects that he especially takes into consideration. What news is there of this slant at the Committee's Committee on Fundament Committee that should be taken into account the ideas of the Guðjón of Samúelsson when it comes to the construction of the General Assembly? Does more of the legal committee have to do with this? Is more of a part of some kind reflecting the strange ideas that come out of nowhere. Prime Minister? Just enough for the highest. Prime Minister to speak of his ludicrous idea of bringing 100 years of drawings and building in the middle of the city of Reykjavík, at the World Council Circle, to include more of the committee, not just his own party, but the faithful members of Parliament, who have a long history during the council, as well as the year. paritaprevir Is this true of Gullful Þórðarson? Is he also an admirer of the Guðjón of Samúelsson? What the hell is that song? What's the lowdown? Who can think of this? The last time I knew, because I was in bed. The prime committee, this was the Presidency Committee. The last time I knew it, there were a period of peace saved to a certain location. The government was built in such a way that those who were familiar with the language class and who had a special education in building peace were expected to do so. No, it happened very early in the season that a class of the green economy was converted to the loss of Sigmundur, Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, the highest. Prime Minister, and he granted authority to write along the back of an envelope and to change all sorts of things, decided to meet and this, making only some special housekeeping department in the Ministry of Presidency. It's unannounced, it's lame, and it's not for the sake of improving politics in Iceland. But, fortunately, the election in Iceland is coming, and it is short of a new government because it is simply that no government can stand to be unpopular for a long time, and no government survives to enter an unpopular election. When humans rule in the way that this is done, they will, of course, fall. Sadly, though, much time and high value go out of court because of the mismanagement of the situation and the mismanagement of anything that comes from the government. In observing the discussion from a distance, seeing the headlines, and the talks given, a person is shocked that the case is once again being handled in this way, no matter what happens, even so that various projects decided during the last term should be not on the Senate desks but on a professional basis, they are coming back into the council. Once again, members of the council are making some kind of grant request, and so on, sharing funds for the others and those projects, so it all turns in circles. Any adjustments made will somehow come back because there is a complete lack of vision. There is no need for long - term attention, and it will be.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u185	President. Thank you. A senator's excellent speech, similar to the takeover of my first speech I gave on the budget bill yesterday, i.e. of the conclusion of the discussion of the bill on the part of the governments, members of Congress, and Ministers. If I remember correctly, this is a second term. paritaprevir Róbert Marshallur, who has spent seven years at the council, has observed much longer than this with experience in media work and has had almost a job to observe for a while. I've also been watching Congress for a long time, and I've been a bigot of politics all along, sitting in a council, and often coming here as a backup, and I don't remember anyone as agitated as anything about budgeting as in the autumn, in the last weeks and months. These include amazing ways of dealing with visitors and members of the Committee and those who are also against institutions under the Ministry of finance, as well as under financial laws, etc., with arrogance and self - importance. It's my opinion, and I mentioned it in a speech today or yesterday that this has damaged the council in order to break down trust between the council and the people we have to communicate with, especially in the area of finance. It's not the same conversation between us, it's not a normal conversation. [[The president calls.]] Does the senator agree on this, first of all, and second, what does the senator consider to be the cause that this act is about to arise now, though the year of agitation that had since collapse? I don't remember any of the kind of atmosphere I've had in the fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u186	A respectable president. That's a very good question. A senator may not be easy to answer. Of course, some form of political conflict and declarations about something of no importance are far easier to control than simply being well involved in matters and to agree on the underlying factors that humans are discussing and addressing. It's really some kind of methodology that they're using in politics here, bringing flowers and getting answers that are similar to what they can say, "Look, it's just politics, it's just a traditional carp about politics, that's all of it. Yes, it may well be that I'm uncouth and agitating in my presentation, etc., but see just the others, they're not better. Of course, it's much simpler to do this kind of political work, and people just get peace to go their own way and bring their own ideas based on their politics without having to consider anything else. But it would be much simpler, cleaner, and better, and more successful for long - term, long - term deaths if the practice and efforts were to communicate. But there is no will for the present. Prime Minister to do this. He has never shown any agreement in this room or in the field of Icelandic politics. Everyone who's been watching knows. It's all in this style, right into the sandbox. That's just the way it is, unfortunately, and it sucks.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u187	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I think one of the results of this conversation, if you can call it, to the nation is a strange political focus that can be found in the leading party of the greater part. A senator mentioned, including that it be set out for more than 2 billion dollars. A building at the General Assembly, according to a 100 - year - old plan by Samúelsson's God - given son from a dormitory to a whole other place, is moved here at the House, and should continue there. I think there's some strange suggestions on building a dock where a budget decides to put 400 million. K. And to engulf them in undefined manner to 11 places. I think it's a strange suggestion, which is the result of putting 50 million. K. At Bifrost University to prevent possible sliding next year. There is no mention of Land Hospital in that regard. [[The president calls.]] Does the senator think that the political climate on the side of the administrations, the financial committees, and the government will spread and become an amazing proposal and surprising emphasis on the budget? [[The president calls.]] Does the senator agree with that? You see, I think so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u188	Madam President. All of this is a smell of the administration as the highest level. The prime minister has wanted to engage since he began his reign, from being able to bring the whole and half of the lawsuits down to his own field of interest, as poor as it is, and to move to police problems with one piece of penblash right after a trial. Of course, that is not acceptable. We have a set of regulations, laws, and procedures to follow. That's how people run communities. I haven't been there all this conversation, but I was looking around to see if the radio bill was going to remain on TV. I think it should be lowered according to the suggestions that are being made here. I think that's against what's at the highest. Secretary of education has announced. There must have been some adjustment, or there are suggestions to make, I thought that would be perfectly clear. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Maybe it's something of the highest magnitude. Prime Minister or others are trying to prevent it. It would be very serious if it were.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u189	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for a very good and clear speech. I'd like to kill only on the follow-up role of the Generals, but I see at the Committee list in the greater part that there is a word about burdensome legislation. While this may not be the case, it is possible to read from the lines that there is something to make the surveillance industry bad. In particular, there is the F.A. and U.S. Marshal's office. The budget for the FESI has increased from 2007 to 2016 by 203%, while there has been an increase of 100% in the budget for the Albouren agent. In view of the 2008 events before the collapse, one of the main projects assigned by the Council was to promote the surveillance of the Generals and related institutions, such as the SEC and its institutions in our community. What do you think? When these important institutions are placed in a subsection entitled both heavy - weighted laws, such as their role as something bad? Does this mean that we are looking back at that good time before 2007, where the SEC was so good that it was starving to a bank crash? When it comes to this so - called surveillance industry, do we see the need to cut down soon?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u190	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator of this inquiry. There are many things in the budget that indicate that people have either forgotten the story or in the middle of the story, making sure that the public does. This is a repeating of the game played in the leading tide of the crash, where people would strive to reduce all regulations as if it were extremely serious and burdensome and would have to be kept in mind as much as anyone else. In that and many other areas, people are trying to repeat the miserable story. It is also thought - provoking about how people associate with the Kingdom program and how they associate with the health system. It looks like you're trying to prove some point, trying to reduce the power of these strains to the loss of their legs, losing their flight. For example, a man saw how a real vote was made to the State Radio by reporting as a work group under the head of the Eyþór Arnaldur, a member of the Independence Party, worked in the fall. There was nothing more than a carefully prepared scenario and action to the Agency, in which, in a most unfair way, some figures to prove that, in some other way, the Agency was to be run in a much more practical way. But when people began to peer into this, the figures were completely inconsistent and all sorts of important factors had been released and pushed beneath a chair and looked past this so that all of this would certainly be the worst of them to the end of the government. Of course, if they want to change, they should be honest enough to say so, make that policy, and try to be chosen by that policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u191	A respectable president. Thank you for that good answer. I'd like to draw attention to the opinion of the Board of Directors and Control Committee on the Generals' report in 2014, which shows that the complaint at the office has increased from 300 to 500 per year, so the pressures of this small institution, which is highly important to society, observation, role. For example, it is stated that the agent does not have enough money to take care of the initiatives that are natural and that he must be a foundation for the work of the Trustee of the General. But also in this opinion, the President's permission states: In this regard, the context of financing funds for an agent and the position of the Commission was discussed in the context of the initiative analysis of the leak problem called, which had a fundamental effect on the administration. Also, an agent needs to be financially independent. [[The president calls.]] That's what it's all about. A senator's need to be done better with the surveillance agencies we have, or is it just political desire for the present authorities to undermine them? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u192	A respectable president. Of course, this has been identified and defined by the political and socialism of Noam Chomsky as a special methodology for providing private institutions. Digging under them and turning people against them, making them angry, and thus you can continue with your personalization. But in the case of the Generals' agent, you have to agree with the opinion that came from the Board of Directors and Observers this week. It must provide sufficient funding for the Agency to carry out its role. We have seen it in the past few months, and we lose the importance of having such an organization that can be independent and do its part zealously.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u193	V.E.G. President. I must say, there was a strange plaguing of the speech of two. paritaprevir Róbert Marshallur and that of the budget. Instead of actually discussing the budget, the main subject was how the wording of the prime minister was, the spiritual health of the chairman of a legal committee, etc. There was really nothing on the subject of the bill. Hv. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall now mentioned me and thought that I was comparing the inconsistency of the last government in 2009 with that of now, when I gave this talk two days ago or so. But the reason for that speech was just that comment. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall was so worried, the speech of the government council members that we members of the greater body were immoral and filled with wickedness. In part, the situation can be compared at present. I find it amazing that men in the position to have a lot of surgery at the time that I needed to cut down on everything are now so occupied with priorities around the health system and the pension system, because you didn't know that they were when that government was 2009. There was a more proportionate improvement in these measures, which are so important today, and taking costly measures around the EU Member States, around changing the Constitution, going into green economy, etc. [[Up front.]] No. Instead of adding to the pension system and the hospital, there were billions of dollars of ideas about green economy in the national budget. That's the way it was.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u194	A respectable president. Of course, the proposals for the green economy represented all classes, which gave consistent 50 proposals to the council. It was not some task of the wicked left government. A senator is talking about. But I'm afraid I'm comparing myself. In 2009, after the greatest economic breakdown in the Republic history, the senator's donations, equipment, and circumstances today, after five to six years of production in Icelandic economy, are completely lost. But I will cause our friendship to go into the comparison anyway. In 2009, the proportion of GDP was 7.5% in health, and in 2014, four years later after four positive economic growth years was 7%. That's the comparison.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u195	How was that 2010?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u196	How's it going, man? A senator to answer that question?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u197	Tell us what it was like in 2010.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u198	I'm sure that's what I'm gonna do. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason can put himself on the rosary and give a very brilliant talk, but I'm comparing two years, and there's a comparison. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kálmáson gets very upset and gets uncomfortable hearing, so he starts to gasp in the conference hall, but it's just like this. It's perfectly comparable. But the situation of controlling matters after five to six years of economic growth or losing economic independence and creating budgets of over 100 billion dollars. a cut in cooperation with the World Bank is not comparable, and it is not fair, and it certainly knows why. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u199	V.E.G. President. I'm not going to minimize the problems people faced in 2009, yet there were so many things in the financial administration of the last government that did not indicate that men were particularly interested in setting priorities for these institutions, such as the hospital and the pensioners. True, economic growth has increased, but what has this government also really added? What has been added to the Land Hospital during those three years? It's more than 30%. Then people come and claim that we're not doing anything. What has been the economic growth of the pensioners? Clearly, the government has been setting priorities for this purpose and having other important tasks await. There's nothing else that can be said. It's just reality. And then to come here and accuse others -- of course, there was a why. A senator would not then - immorality and wickedness, I would have been much more worried about that debate than would some newspaper minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u200	A respectable president. This, of course, is heartbreaking. In 2009 and 2010, in Icelandic political history and economic regimes, Briss Níelsson and Óli Björn Kárason say that they are completely incapable of ruling the right person's affairs. What happened after a person had to cut down about 100 billion was that in 2010, economic growth, a year later.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u201	He wasn't...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u202	Nevertheless, it was economic growth, hulk. Senator, you can't deny it -- why. A senator can't deny it, so I corrected my case, a respectable president, and I won't address any of the members of Congress directly. That's the way it was. It must be very difficult for you to do that. This is because of decisions made at that time, and it is because of how they were shown in the position they are today. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] Unfortunately, the more part of our power right now is ruining all of this by careless and poor practices.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u203	A respectable president. There is reason to thank for this extensive and grammatical discussion of budgets for the coming years, which, of course, are of good reason. This is the most important bill the Congress is reviewing each year and has to do with all aspects of national life. So there is reason to thank, too, for the much work she has done in the past few weeks, and months in an effort to make the bill better than when it came in here, there was no shortage. This reflects one of the 300 changes proposals made by the Committee, and it is reason to state that there are many excellent suggestions that are truly worthy of supporting the bill after 2nd. It has been an important part of the budget to get visitors from all over the world to point out what may be better handled for the coming years and to give the government a chance to point out what needs to be handled in the district and what turns upside down. Of course, legal committees, especially the administrative body, have had a miscommunication. The proposals to the northwestern district are quite prominent this year, and there is no reason to focus on this, since there is good reason, after little economic growth in large areas there, to take action now as a better source of business. A Christian must make serious comments to a number of aspects of the work of the budget board, especially the head of the committee. It is first to note how unmannerly it has been for all plans for the work and how much time this work has taken in the autumn Summit. We made the changes to move the Senate forward about a month and to get all the elements of the budget at the beginning of the Senate to make the highest legal committee possible to organize and complete the work in a reasonable time. It hasn't worked out. This bed month was not enough to complete the assignment that the committee had given but was completed ten days ahead of the scheduled work period. Sadly, now we are back in our old position on the budget, not in the 3rd. The apostle Paul wrote: "The things that you learned as well as accepted and heard were not the things that you learned and were persuaded to believe, but, look! .., at night and night meetings late December with related mistakes, insufficient data, and insufficient planning. It is completely unacceptable to have the head of the budget board in such a way that special arrangements have been made to allow it to have more time than any financial committee has had in advance to address the matter in advance at the council so that the careful discussion at the Assembly Hall and between the Second and the 3rd districts can be done. as much as possible. It is even more odd that we should be in this position when the present government has almost no other subject at this fall council. This financial bill has been virtually one subject of the Fall Summit, and yet it has not been completed on time or short. What is worst is the mistake and the ill - mannered practices of such a remains. Now, the autumn Parliament should finish today, but because of the design, things that are missing in the bill are still being developed, still being told that data lack is still being developed, a viewpoint in the administrative part that the bill is not to be what it is, but somehow quite different, and we are told that the bill is going to make huge changes between 2 and 3. Um... on the stability contracts, I believe. There are changes that do not occur until the council is scheduled to be home and the discussion is complete. So tragic are the practices that yesterday the chairman of the budget committee announced that there was a mistake in the bill, apart from all of the rest, which said it was a clean and direct mistake in the bill of 1,192 billion. K. If the council had been going home today, it would be right to conclude that these mistakes had been corrected. This one mistake, now we do not know what will be revealed on further discussion, will simply lead to a worsening of the Kingdom Fund. They set out with the wrong number when they set out to set out for the budget, since the bill was so ill - mannered. It is, of course, impossible to do so by Congress No. 1. The U.S. government's budget says that the release will reveal a print error of 1.2 billion. This is no less than 2 props of the Icelandic government's budget, close to 0.2% of 700 billion of the state's budget. I believe and trust that the emergency situation in which the minister of finance and the financial committees are involved with this bill will lead to a review of their actions. This is by no means acceptable. How can we trust other numbers on the bill and other information if there is a print error of 1,192 million discovered yesterday? There are some factors in this work that give you reason to believe that there may be other such things, including them. reports are still being called for, and extensive changes are still being made. Generals are still reporting on the symposium that they support some changes in the bill or have themselves ideas that certain things should not be attacked or to attack certain things, except tens of millions of changes, I assume, at least There are billions of changes between 2 and 3. ... whicharenotsetup. Most of all, I think that the budget should be last before yesterday, I suppose, a deportation at the last hour of a meeting set up by the National Association of older citizens and Iceland's Quantum Association. Why? Because the leading legal committee had to allow two agencies to work for the decisions made in the pensions of the elderly and inexhaustible. What does this tell us? It tells us that the leading legal committee did not believe that they had sufficient data, sufficient information, adequate comparison of pensions past and present but had made a decision on the interest of tens of thousands of people in the evidence that they had previously had, obviously not enough to hold a meeting on the Committee. If this is the case, it is understandable that the bill calls for the reaction it has made to the community on a number of factors, especially for the treatment of the Land Hospital and the Government Radio, the central community institutions, and even more so the pension rates of the former groups. More than that, they must make serious comments as to the way they have kept their arms around the work at the head of the committee. To say, it is not acceptable that members of the Parliament are arguing with the National Penitentiary Association on how the pensioners are chosen. He knows the natural best of himself when the fire burns, and no one argues that what such an organization puts before the council is being challenged. Still, that treatment can be taken without protesting to the director of the Land Hospital. Spiritual violence was reported when faithful officials of the Icelandic State, who have been entrusted with a responsible responsibility to watch out for one of the most important institutions in society, the Land Hospital, and its operations, came before a Senate committee, and reported as well as they could on what needs the existing bill was fulfilled and what was not. Then they had to endure such talk. A respectable president. It doesn't have to be this way. A financial bill can be controversial, no matter what government it presents. There may be differing viewpoints and viewpoints. A financial committee is to respect these views. There are other opinions, and they just describe them. However, such messages to the general visitor are dangerous because they discourage identifying the council of what needs to be improved, where is the mistake of finding in the bill, and what can happen to citizens. The message's obvious. Therefore, it is not easy to accept advice on the subject. It is a threat to the political treatment of the matter because in our democracies our community is the basis for the Congress treatment of a budgetary bill that the secretary of finance contributes to the first day of Congress and the nation is made aware of the bill. After that time, everyone should be able to express comments and comments on what may be better handled, for everyone knows that many things can be done better. The majority of the budget committees found some 300 items in the bill better off. He made 300 changes himself. It is important that this practice, in case a procedure should be called, be reviewed as soon as humans try to prevent such a serious mistake from occurring again. I think it might be a very rare thing to print a total of 1.2 billion in budgets in December as well as when people take the time factor on the case. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Happily, they are being treated at the council as a public financial bill. Of course, this changes to a significant extent the position of the budget committee and brings more to the Management Board, to the Ministry, and to professionals. Some have had doubts about this, but let us be optimistic about the ability to make progress. It is also important that we try not to work largely on these unique forms of change, such as those we are considering here. Around., holding the big frames, long-term plans, about the survival of a trust fund rather than some small budget around here and there. What causes a measure of concern as we look at the development of the state's budget during this terms is the limited success that has been achieved in the government despite having enjoyed much interest for years, from the early term of the last term, which, of course, brings significant increases in income to government funds. In spite of this, at the Parliament's bill, we are also included in a budget for 2015, and the conclusion is, in fact, not living. Despite the low value of raw prices in the world markets, especially oil prices that are useful to the Icelandic national economy, although delinquency is good, in fish markets, and in other environments, most of us are at an advantage at the current year if the Lands Bank was not taking enormously much interest in ourselves if 26 billion were not taken out of the bank of the land. It must be thought - provoking for all of us. We were to learn in the collapse that in times such as now, when all the major factors affecting the success or failure of our society are favorable, a variety of external circumstances, it is precisely necessary for us to have rest, to lay in a barn, to have something for the many years that will be pleasant. Practical external conditions come and they leave. If we do not take care of ourselves at a good time, we may suffer severe trauma when circumstances arise against us. What explains that during the last terms, when there was a considerable decrease in domestic production, the situation was already zero, but the remainder has not increased all this terms? This is explained by the fact that the government has been reducing the taxes on the wealthiest people in the country and most important of all on the tax payment. It is a big problem for politics and democracy if they think it is more likely to be popular in the next election to get the influence of society and to reduce taxes to those who are more likely to pay than they can put aside a lot of years. There is no small amount here. It will be even more painful when you stand up for one member of the council after another and say that you would like to spend more money on more community affairs, but you don't have them available, such as the elderly and the desperate, to the Land Hospital and many other topics. Why, then, does the administrative body not have anything available? That's for the same reason. He has cut down or not advanced taxes that gave Iceland's government funds a lot of money and could have used them to do good things for the elderly and desperate, and for the Hospital, which the Generals say they want to do and don't do, and would have contributed to a few years. The wealth tax is one good example, the tax that was put on equal lengths to the currency capital, and always extended like the currency capital. However, the present administrative body chose not to extend, although the seas had been extended. It is the income that came to the State Fund from about 5 of you. The richest homes in the country. A respectable president. I remind you that it is an international political problem that the wealthiest of the world's wealth is increasing over the year and the mismatch is growing years from year to year, and the strongest means of reducing the risk that 1% of the richest people are absorbing all their possessions gradually, in time, taxing them of the same property and nothing is normal after the huge challenges we have here, but that just the best are going on as long as we're getting out of the problem, while we're breaking out of the currency and while we're working on the debt and building up reserves to the next time when we have to do so, and so we can only do so that we're gonna have to do it again in the same way and we're going back to get back in 2008. There they had to attack the bitter cuts because they had no reserves to attend. That is why we need to learn. One of the things we need to be aware of in this context, and I recently directed an inquiry to the secretary of finance, is what is called the technical name of a fluctuation-corrected initial equation, the economy-corrected prime balance. In fact, it shows us how government funds are developing from year to year when the economy is overlooked and the profit market is overlooked. How happy he is that over a ten - year period, he has a positive attitude of 2◯3%! We don't see warning that the fluctuation-corrected equation is turning negative, at least not yet, but, of course, the unexpected events next year or the rest of them might quickly change them. It was just one of the symptoms here before the collapse, when they thought that the good condition was so gone that it could walk on the state funds and give up money and let down taxes from various privileged groups, this equation became negative. I encourage senators to study the answer to a secretary of finance and to keep their eyes on this ball, for it is so important to us that the underlying budget is in order and we are not distracted by the fact that there is yet one more elaborate and more subsidence to the point where government funds have no reserve to take and are in the midst of a negative underlying business. Another source of income, which is absolutely incorruption to man, is the reduction in hunting costs, especially when they get up here and tell us that they want to do more and more for the other one and this one, but they just don't have the money to do it, they can't do it. Of course, it is no wonder that when the result of the deportation is as if it has never been in the republican history year after year, and when it is in full advantage, money to its owners, and substantial market fees, then the decision should be reduced anyway. Still, they made a positive decision to lower, in particular, what this group was paying for the resources of our Icelanders, a government fund. It is not possible to take seriously those who have paid votes by lowering the contribution made to state funds but then say that they do not have money to attack the greater benefits of large groups in the community or in important medical institutions or such because politics is about priorities. For whom are priorities clear? That's the priority for 5 of you. the highest home in the country, and that is the priority for the builders. But the land hospital, the elderly, and the poor, and some other things remain. A respectable president. Now, we are fortunate to be in times where priorities can be premeditated, thanks to the tireless building work during the last term, not only the government that then sat, but, of course, and especially the companies in the country, and the people, by means of various investments, have the economic work at the World Bank, with a variety of investments in new factories laid the foundation for the last term, managed to expand the cookie so much that, if available, it is possible to set priorities in this way. Of course, it's not too late. As a result, I encourage senators to take a good look at their thoughts. I want to believe that they have become aware of this bill for the past few days and weeks that there are serious injuries on the bill that are particularly related to these factors, the elderly and the microp poor, the Land Hospital, some factors in the education system as well as other aspects of the health system that are important to correct. Simply put, it can be replaced if you are willing to earn your income, either through the fishing costs or through the wealth tax. If it is your heart's conviction that the elderly are to be improved more than expected in the bill and in the same way that others in the community are to be helped to do so, there is nothing to be done. All we have to do is move a new proposal to either 2nd. the budget of the 3rd. ... aboutthecharity or the budget. The opportunity is there. There's a council meeting next week, both with the Independence Party and the forward party. You can't take it seriously if you're going to come back and say: " No, we don't want the same raise in the state as we came to. We want to cut off taxes from the wealthy and the fishing taxes, but we still want to raise the elderly and the desperate from the same time as others - because if you decide to lower the hunting costs and the wealth tax, you know that it means you can't raise the money of the elderly and the desperate like the rest of the community at the same time as you know that it means you won't have to stay at the Land Hospital, you can't have money for the greater need for more elderly people in the country, not necessary for maintenance in the hospital, etc. So, there's no harm to say that they don't want it if they don't want to get what they need to do. Similarly, on the income side there are smaller ones worth commenting on. There is good reason to criticize which groups have enjoyed changes in income taxation, since these are certainly not the lowest paid and most needed. It's also tragic, but I'd like to say, to see some of the other resources, or to lack them. One important factor is our revenue for tourism. Another decision on the administrative side was the loss of income. The strangest group the government decided to turn down income from were foreign tourists. Today the number of foreign tourists has increased as never before; 1.3 million tourists are the numbers we are seeing, which we would not have believed before many years ago to be so far away. This is especially due to the building work being done during the last terms following the eruption of Eyjafjörður. But the council members decided to give all this great flow of foreign tourists a special discount from a valuable tax, that there is a special reason for them to pay a lower value tax in this country than we Iceland do in general. Is our problem, however, that we need to increase the number of tourists? On the contrary, we need to increase our income from each individual traveller. That is why there is good reason to add to the payment of our common fund of government, of these tourists. But let's be, it's one of the decisions that has led to the lack of money for the good things they claim to support. In any case, visitors were to pay the cost of their being here, paying off any special fees that might be due them. It wasn't too complicated either. Just as the increase in the value tax, which was quite simple, the worthy tax system was good and a powerful revenue system, it has been prior to all this election period that if you did not want to go to the cost of paying taxes, there would be another way to make money that could go, which is the host's fee. He's incompetently low, he's a hundred bucks. I say that I will spend the night every night. He could easily multiply by one decision and bring a substantial amount of money into the state funds to meet the cost of these costs, thus creating room for him to carry out the good tasks that the senators say they want to do instead of go on. Neither was it, but there was some completely incomprehensible expedition that I think promised a natural pass and is already gone down by the end of the season. All we do is sit up with the cost and no income. This is primarily about the income side of the budget, which is a reason to severely criticize the more part. There have certainly been many ways to make it possible for those in charge to have been decent because of raising the money of the elderly and incubating from the same time as our own and letting the Land Hospital have money for the needed maintenance and for the growing number of patients, to name just two clear examples. When it comes to the income of the bill for the next year, it was interesting to hear the speech of the head of the Economic and Business Committee earlier today. You actually put it in silence, for there were good ideas in the fine talk on a variety of incomes you could earn. But the head of the Economic and Business Committee, the Pledge of the Agency in the second city of Reykjavík, and the heavyweightweight member of the Organization's Congress, must have won such a course of ideas in the leading of this bill and the payment it will be paid next week. On the last day of the council, there are about 10 times 5 billion here or 5 billion there, or what it was all about. Let's say, it's seasoning all the way, though it may be difficult to take it seriously, but one must take it seriously, and that's the opposition of the head of the Economic and Business Committee, and that I kept the forward party at all times selling 30% of a share in the National Bank. Then again I ask about the income side of the budget bill, a respectable president. How's that? Will the applicant party vote for 30% of the National Bank on the budget bill, or will they take advantage of the warrant, or will he give up the budget and then stop selling the property? What's that all about? Was there a print error there, too? Is it so that the head of the Economic and Business Committee and the Agency is opposed to selling 30% shares at the National Bank, but that's just what they'll do? Is the forward group a sort of glove box with the Independence Party? Does his course in this matter make no difference? Can it be trusted that the Independence Party has its own way and that this money will pay off and that there will be a positive result of the law of the law in the next year because the Independence Party will have it, and the head of the Economic and Business Committee will just let themselves pass by and ignore their views in this large matter? At least it's very special, so that's all. There are other things on the thrift side, and especially on the retail of property. I'd like to commend the chairman of the Economic and Business Committee that the man who is a smart man and who is a good agent should present in his speech what is so cowardly about the independence party's idea of selling 30% shares in the Bank of America. He simply made it appear that there's a bad business service because the head of the Economic and Business Committee is whatever happens to be a good businessman. That's bad business because the government fund loses 4 to5 billion a year of it. [[The president calls.]] By selling the item and paying off on debts, a fund is far more profitable than it is. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. I will continue in my next talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u204	President. I noticed why. In his talk, a senator was concerned about what would happen to the acquisition of a money fund and how the prospects would be for a government fund in the future. I'm not worried. I feel like it's really relaxing to return a budget bill to next year with a request that it be on a flat, i.e. on zero, the fourth year in a row. It is now bound to pay from the Lands Bank, i.e. the underlying business is not returning this. This year's budget goes into 140 billion more income than it did in 2010 - 140 billion more income. I'd like to ask you what. A senator how he believes that such a way of handling the government's money now, of having no business but through money money, will prepare a government fund for the slightest downturn or a future fluke. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u205	A respectable president. That's quick. This is not planning. The example that we might have in our everyday life is relatively simple. Now it's as good as it gets, it's got the gas dropped, $36 on the market in New York yesterday. It's a price not long ago and over $100, three times higher. It's a huge budget team for the Icelandic population, especially for the development. Fluctuation in this material could simply have a very serious effect on all the conditions on which this bill is based. Of course, it would be important to have set aside already, as is now, but unfortunately the business does not. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u206	A respectable president. On page 18. According to Article 71 and 72 of the budget package, in policy and watch, there are hundreds of billions of dollars in the number of tax reductions and the estimated tax reductions in the future. Cumulative, i.e. with the changes planned now as well as the changes that have already been made, I keep the bank taxation outside, we're talking about tax losses or status of 15 billion in 2015, 25 billion in 2016, 30 billion 2017, and then the years after less income. This document also shows that the elements, i.e. what we have left of our business to pay off loans and interests, as the proportion of national production has gone down to 27%. [[The president calls.]] It means again that the primary expenditures intended to run through society's interiors will be below that. [[The president calls.]] In this way, we have reached some 31.74% under other northern nations and have begun approaching countries that we have never compared with before. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u207	A respectable president. It may not be worst to reduce taxes in itself, if we could do so and still do anything else, it would be a positive thing, or if it were to lower important taxes, on low-payers, on middlepayers, and added to child reforms and interest benefits and such factors. A respectable president. The worst part is that taxes are being reduced to the output that doesn't need them at all, on 5s of you. The richest homes in the country that certainly don't have to, and, for the crown of nonsense, in foreign tourists. What kind of priorities is this?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u208	A respectable president. I marvel at the government's decisions when it comes to earning money, and I don't understand some of the decisions, as it were. A senator has trained well and did so in his talk. There is, however, one income I've always been on both sides with, the wealth tax. The government of the last elected period temporarily placed the wealth tax, and it was soon discovered that he had certain unjust aspects. They talked about widows who had big houses but had little income and suddenly came to pay a lot of taxes they didn't have. I share the concern of the senator because wealth is gathering on few hands, but does he sees the possibility of designing the wealth tax so that he does not have this unjust side effect and burdening people with great possessions but has little income? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u209	A respectable president. True, this may be a concern, but to such negligible extent, it was not a major concern. It would be easy, though, to face it, to form by having some income as a basis for the tax paid or in other ways to limit it. I'd also like to say that I'd have considered myself to be perplexing if the administrative part had decided to extend the wealth tax as being lower than when it arrived. He could, indeed, bite at a limited number, but removing him at all times as such, in currency, in a financial emergency, and when the government council members feel that they have no money for the Land Hospital and for the elderly and the desperate, I have never understood.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u210	A respectable president. I would have wanted to see the wealth tax continue in a different form so that it would actually treat people who had great possessions and were allowed to pay taxes. I've heard one idea, that a house could have been taken simply out of parentheses and not seen as an item of property that had to be taxed in a special way and that might have prevented discrimination. I'd like to ask a second answer about the insurance bill. I feel very unfair how they've been kept in almost the same percentage from the high unemployment rates after a collapse. I'd like to see it down. That's the tax reduction I think is one of the most urgent things in the environment as it is, or one of the righteous ones. Shared. A senator of that opinion? Does he see a way to cut down the insurance? [[The president calls.]] Would he have been aware of this if he was now in a position of government and perhaps asked to include other tax returns?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u211	A respectable president. That's quick. The reduction in insurance costs is a reasonable and normal operation that does not reduce the cost of hunting, the removal of a wealth tax is not, and the failure to pay taxes to foreign tourists is, of course, not at all. Only on the other material that focuses on the wealth tax. I also think that we've overstepped it, and maybe the managers of the business have gone through some misunderstanding because the tenets have suggested that wealthy people don't want to pay taxes. I don't think there's any reason to think about it. I think a lot of those who have made money and have enjoyed success in life simply want to pay taxes cheerfully. I refer to Buffettur Warrens's article, as the world's foremost investor, in this regard as well as in the articles Kári Stefánsson, mentioned in this discussion for another reason, as an example of men who object that they are being relieved of taxes and are eager to pay. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u212	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the speech. He did well in his speech the many adjustments made to the budget bill since its first appearance and mentioned exactly 1.2 billion years ago. the last one that's forgotten. I'd like to ask you what. Because earlier today, there was a signing agreement between state and rural society regarding financial borders because of the community service of disabled persons. That's 6. for the approval of the General Assembly, which speaks of the agreement being made in advance that the Council agrees to the need for legal adjustment and to change the budget. Does this mean that we are expected to have even more changes now that we really should be home on vacation?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u213	A respectable president. It is true of the senator that the adjustment of the proposal is expected from a greater portion of the legal committee, which contributes to significant expenditures on this basis. That will make the mistake clear, i.e. The print error, even more so when certain factors arise, such as financial relations between the state and the local community or decisions for the raise of public employees or those under the advice of voters, since it is only natural that the government fund will contribute to the cost of it. It is handled without question through the council and stamped. But when it comes to raising the elderly in the same way that there is no money at all, then it is not just a slip through and stamped, it must be done and financed, especially, that is not needed when reimbursement is being paid for, public employees, or negotiations with rural communities. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u214	V.E.G. President. Thanks for the answer. I'm kind of interested in how we, as a community, are going to finance society's business. It seems to me that a certain obsession or something is going on when taxes are being dropped or not extended to them. It seems that there has been an idea, especially in the right, that there is always a way to deal with everything by increasing your activity and increasing your cycle, and somehow some down to less people. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: Is our thinking allowing us to do so? Is it what we can do in the 21st century when all the world's major rulers are gathered together in Paris to cope with climate change? Do we not have to think of how we share what we already have, since more material things must be added to our community because we cannot always increase the cookie? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u215	A respectable president. Simply put, the communities that have based on the bread - breaking theory are communities that are much more sensitive to economic events and where social discrimination is prevalent. The countries that have, on the contrary, been built on strong cohesion, have taxed, and have free general health services and are countries like the North countries. They have proved to be much easier to cope with economic tensions. They have provided much better communities, safer communities, communities where people can walk toward health, education, and other fundamental aspects of life. No doubt, then, we are to follow the example, not the crumbs, but the bread.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u216	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar before the talk. Hv. The senator talked about the economy, and I'd like to say, of course, that there was no ordinary economy here, the sharp collapse that occurred, and, really, everything that happened here, the traumas that hit all and the entire economy. A number of factors were needed to get out of it. We're still working through it to improve the basic services. Hv. A senator spoke a lot about us giving up on our money. With regard to travel services, I would like to say that the tourist is very vulnerable to the nuclear service, the flight, the shelter, and the rental car rent, so I can take the example. It is a core service, and we should, of course, support our sectors in building and growing, which are very important, e.g. Export workers. [[The president calls.]] Hv. A senator also mentioned the income tax system. I ask myself, " Did I understand why? ' A senator rightly felt that he was going to lower income tax and increase the level of money that could lead to inequities? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u217	A respectable president. Only the tourists. There's hope for it. A senator tries to make extra adjustments, as each person sees that the government has been absolutely inadequate to take money from tourists for all this terms of election. It's quite possible. It was Icelanda's attitude during the last term, I know I'm chairman of the Economic and Business Committee, that the price tag was in the airport instead of the hotel or the rental. They should know, they are extensive on flights, hotels, and rentals. They emphasized that it was the ticket that would affect the number of people who came here primarily, the level of prices. A decrease in income taxation, which makes a difference who enjoys this reduction. It has been designed to be the best enjoyed by members of the council and by those in our income group. [[The president calls.]] I don't think that will bring up as much economics and economic growth as it does in reducing taxes to those with average income and less income.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u218	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. We don't agree with the tourist. While he is worthy of our flight, there is more to his decisions when it comes to where to travel around the world. The low-costs have changed this, so on the way out, with all these possibilities around the world, a lot of money will help us, but nuclear services will be the most important thing. In terms of the income tax, I'm going to draw out that the Giini factor, which is certainly an indicator but not a universal measure, has fallen here and the level of income has never been greater and more in Europe. There must be some indication that we are on the right track with the tax system.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u219	A respectable president. Without going into a technical discussion about taxes on tourists, I think it's simply we every man that we're far from taking the money we could be doing and should be doing. It's just impotence that causes it. About the Gii constant, i.e. International scale on the equation, the senator is referring to a calculated number for 2013. Of course, it is not surprising that every action we took during our last term and the last in the minority government was aimed at reaching out for the country. This led to the result. The present government has simply taken many actions in the other direction. We may be losing this trend in the opposite direction, as inequities are clearly increasing. I think that's what we're dealing with right now in the everyday life of our country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u220	A respectable president. It's nice to come up here a second time and discuss the budget for 2016, for we've seen a lot of new things in the 40 hours we've spent in this council hall discussing this important matter. One thing I've noticed about the presentation here is that it's as if the collapse never occurred, that the cause and resulting collapses never occurred here in 2008. Similarly, when you have read research reports about the collapse of the bank and its contours, it is very interesting that it is as if the disaster's ghost hovers over the waters of a committee of more parts of the legal committee when it comes to various teams, especially on burdensome legislation, and I don't like what can be read from that section. This rhymes with the 1996 Independence Party policy, first, that banks and employment companies need to be helped by preventing legislation from being too burdensome. This was a long part of the Independence Party's policy in the so - called New Freedomism, i.e. that the burden of legislation, the surveillance industry, was bad. The day came so far that because of the ideologies that institutions such as the UN should not be particularly powerful in the community, we could not have had enough control of our banks. In the United States alone, since all the banks were privateised on a board as well as on one board in 2001◯2003, the financial department had no significant power to promote the awesome growth in the Icelandic banking system. It is very interesting in this context also to remember that the dollar was placed on a fleet that was the key to selling the banks so that they could open their doors. The crown has only been allowed to spend seven years on a float of the 140, or so, it has existed. It is a great damage to the Icelandic economy, I must say. I'm sure it's just my food, but it seems the Icelandic economy isn't doing anything very well. When I gave my first speech, it was considered that the Board of Directors and Following Committee on Address's Report was not made available in 2014. The members of the greater part have specifically stated that from 2007 to 2016, expenses for the Council's emissary increased by about 100%. The commission says, with permission of the president: It is only necessary to establish a follow-up unless the benefits outweigh the costs or benefits it brings. Official monitoring should be gradual and the extent of the risk should be taken into account in each case. There's a lot you can read between the lines, but maybe it's just my interpretation of what it says. It is very interesting to see how both the Board of Education and the Council of the World in this committee and what was discussed in the 1990's and in the first decade of the 21st century when I was growing up west on Seltananes. I'm not old, but it's what you've learned. Maybe it's because I'm learning this later. I wasn't in this speech speech like many here, but this phrase goes through quite a bit, and it shocks me a little bit. When it comes to the U.S. Councilman's office, it is of particular interest that in an adjustment of the pay gate from the greater part of the section, a proposal is made to reduce the contribution to the Council's agent by 13 million now being moved to Thorsham, which is owned by the state, and then the office has ceased renting. However, it is not expected to meet other cost of management that will be met by the Generals' agent where security, real estate costs, food expenses, and, for example, hot water are suddenly covered by the director of the Agency, who has to be paid for it. These are all factors that were either much lower or absent when the U.S. Marshal was living in a rented home. This important monitoring agency, which has proved itself to be in Icelandic society, has to be met. She has great confidence. It must be met so that it is financially independent and does not have to be fighting the funds to survive the next winter. It's totally below all the caves. In recent years, the U.S. commissioner has done very well, but the number of paintings has gone from 300 to 500 per year. According to the bottom line. This is just a clear evidence of the trust gained by an agent and an increased sense of justice. There are many things that the U.S. Marshal has to do. It is not merely to receive the complaints and process them. Education material for management personnel was provided for the 2013 budget, but an agent has not been able to access it because of the rest of the budget. It was just so that the management staff could better understand their moral role in all of this. An agent called attention to this, and this may be my main point here that the number of initiatives in the last few years was substantially reduced because of the increase in legal numbers and pressures at the office. No such issue has been formally addressed this year, and only one matter is being concluded. It is important that an agent be able to handle and have financial resources to hire an employee or to have sufficient financial independence in order to conduct these initiative studies. The agent's work is an important safety valve. He has a certain initiative, but when he is so limited in his ability to handle this, we are weakening the authority and the role of the U.S. Marshal's agent considerably. An agent himself has said, and there is one of our changes in the smaller parts, that an extra reserve of about 15 million would be taken into consideration. It is very important that the removal of the office of 13 million will be done. Whatever the case, we need to make sure that an agent gets an extra 15 million to take care of these initiatives. This is of great importance because he plays a vital role in increasing the city's rights, and it is fundamental that the office is granted financial support in order to carry out this vital assignment. It is interesting that in view of the administration and monitoring committee, the following is specifically stated, by permission of the president: It highlights the importance of the office so that it is enabled to operate professionally and to carry out the legal tasks assigned to it. In this regard, the context of funding for the agent and the position of the Commission was discussed in the context of the initiative analysis of the leak problem called, which had a basic impact on the administration. [...] The committee notes that it is fundamental that an agent is receiving sufficient funds to carry out his legal assignments in a way that he thinks is sufficient. It is important that the agent continues to be the safety valve he is for the citizens. Like what? The administrative and monitoring committee is obliged by the government to provide the agent with the financial security he needs in order to pursue this surveillance. It is very serious political messages when this office is cut down without taking into account the overall picture. In addition, it is also absolutely necessary for the office to make this 15 million so as to survive the pressure of initiative. The report also mentions the pay period, and it may focus specifically on the changes I propose in my own name on the Information Committee. At the speed of this committee, the U.S. commissioner makes extensive comments, which take about 200 days. By permission of the President: ▪ The Agency considers it to be reprehensible and necessary to provide enough funds to shorten the time of the committee so that the media can provide real protection for governments at any given time. That's not where we're talking about large sums. This decision committee needs to be given about 5 million to make a significant reduction of this tail, and this is about as much as expected for the Bible Society, which I have not yet received an acceptable explanation of why it receives 4 million. It is said that it is because of the 200th anniversary of the Bible Society, but I am not sure that the Bible Society is the same as the Icelandic Bible Society. I am a great student of Bibles, especially translations of old Bibles, so I think it's a good deal, so I like it, but it's a natural question of priorities too. It has to be said that the priorities in these budgets are quite strange. For example, important and urgent matters are not being handled at the table of the Allegorium, but they are being given to interested persons about Bibles 4 million. I find it unusual, and I would like to see a change in this, simply because the Bible Society could be financed by the church, which is relatively well - versed in society. She gains enormous amounts of tax money from people as well as other Christian religions who use the Bible. Maybe it would be nice to take this team out and trade it for something a little more. Another source of surprise and surprise for many others is the authority to sell the National Archives. It was discovered that this is only a warrant, yet it gives rise to a measure of dismay and may show a sense of confusion in making the budgets. They're just trying to pick something up. It is true, however, that the question has been ignored. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur of Þór Þórðarson, National Archives, is in an old cheese factory. When we decide to store documents, we don't move them right from there. A recipe for losing documents, such as the Norwegian Royal Archive, has been lost to a large extent. The same can be said of the dance, so in view of its dangers, it is very dangerous to move documents because they will be lost. There are certainly some examples of that. I don't know if I'm supposed to call this thoughtlessness or lack of understanding, or maybe people just see a game at a table where it's a more valuable country than they used to be. They're not looking at the big picture here any more than they used to. We've been talking about tourists and city dwellers. I find it so easy to get some conclusions. She's changing the incubator's account to the percentage. That might be the first way. I understand the host's fee is now a hundred bucks, or so, it's still 70 euros, or 50 pence, that's nothing at all, that's probably the lowest stay fee I know of. Changing the price to a low and cute percentage could lead to a sudden result. Similarly, rural communities should be granted permission to collect urban taxes, which, of course, are a single payment tax that would flow directly to the rural communities where local expenses have increased, especially as a result of increasing stream of tourists, but also because in recent years we have placed more obligations on the local community. Some of these are health centers, which are now often run in 100 million. K. losing and sharing all around it is the crystal debate that is always going on in Iceland, the state against the locals. You can see it all over the place. It doesn't matter whether you go to the Gardenville or to the West, it's always a conflict of money and who can do better. When we are talking about health institutions that foster care for old or sick people, it is not to matter what the Agency's ways are, but only that the result will be good, healthy, and reasonable. If the government has to give them more money, it must be done by the government. At the same time that our community's expenses have increased, it is important for us as lawmakers in Iceland, and for those who create laws and rules and allow rural communities to collect taxes and the like, to give them more revenues. I think one of those income stocks could be the tax of the city or a share in a bedsider's fee. I think that's normal. I'm not going to have my case further in the meantime. I hope that it was at least an informing of both the decision-making committee and the position of the emissary of the General Assembly. The two important things are to care for these committees and offices, and I hope so earnestly that members of the greater part and the smaller part agree with them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u221	Mr. President. I thank the senator for his speech. Therefore, we are concerned about the position of the U.S. Marshal's agent, not just because he's being cut down now because he doesn't have to pay rents but also because, like a dog, he has to pay. A senator came in, saying that there is not enough speech, and this may lack money to take part in individual research. I sometimes wondered if people in general and many of them will understand when an agent can be consulted and even if members of the council also realize what the agent really does and for whom. Now it's come out, like a whisk. A senator was quoting, a committee opinion from a management and monitoring committee on the report of the Allied emissary agent. I encourage senators to read it, to those who have not, or who are not on that committee, because it presents a number of points to be considered. I have been among those involved in consumer affairs, and much has been discussed with decision - making committees, all kinds of ruling committees. We are at least two in the hall today who have been on committees discussing decision - making committees and whether to unite them or not. I'd like to ask the senator if she could bring up some sort of initiative case she knows that an agent has taken up and studied, and if she knows of an incident that has caused someone to have a case just turned, a big case of compensation or something like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u222	A respectable president. It is quite possible to point to a few issues that Aldulis's agent has taken the initiative. Then it is naturally damaged to commemorate the leak, which initiative began at the U.S. Marshal's Office. I think it was the only case that went through there that year. Also, it says "whisper" in terms of what happened. The Commission and the Commission, by permission of the President: A few of the initiatives are waiting to be made by the office, e.g. issues related to business agreements with certain holdings of particular holdings, which encore Reykjavík, which are owned by the rural community.• So there are other factors being done, and an agent is interested in more research. It is also starting to send a letter of thought. The office sent 18 such letters last year. These are all letters that are thought - provoking and preconceived, so there is no need for initiative. At the time of the U.S. Councilman, he is trying to prevent a initiative from being taken up simply because he does not have enough money to do so. Instead, he has developed a process to warn people, to give them the yellow card, that they need to change their practice, otherwise they come to an open study. It is extremely serious in itself that we do not have the best time for this important office.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u223	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. That's exactly what needs to be done. This may be what we need at times to set matters straight. An agent believes he can, like a dog. A senator was pointing out, by going to a job like this, sent out a warning, but such precaution does not make things difficult for him or anywhere else. This is exactly where it's going to be 15 million. K. An extra reserve so that he can take the initiatives that can be taken up. I also find it interesting, as shown in this committee article, to what was required of the Land Hospital. The matter was spoken of as an old state lawyer who rejected it, but because it went through the agent's career, the matter was reversed, and improved behavior was added. I agree that most of us trust the General agent, and we are to support the office. This is one of the things we have to protect against all of us and against the people of the land who can search there, for that is often the last resort that people have. There's also a suggestion for us as a legislator, I think. I really wanted the rest, because I did. A senator spoke of everything else, including the host's fee and the ◯city tax◯-identifications, asking how she liked those ideas. It's only been observed in conversations with rural society, when they've been considering income stocks, how to cover it, whether or not they'll get any share in a worthwhile tax, not just a Šcity tax, because it affects the rural community in a different way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u224	A respectable president. I appreciate that answer, as well as the question. With respect to the extra tax, I think it's worth checking on how it's being done and how it's best to split the valuable tax with my rural society. The situation has become that way, in many parts of the country, simply because many people drive to work from one rural society while working in another, and there are no outbacks for roads or services used in that rural society. It's worth looking at something like that. I agree with that kind of depression, I'm sure. However, I do not know exactly how to reach a conclusion there. It would be, naturally, a political decision. This would be an important step in bridgeing the gap and actually bridgeing the gap between the legislature and the legislature between the legislatures and the legislatures of the Union's legislatures. It's my feeling. Now I'm rather young and inexperienced in politics, but there seems to be a big difference between the local government members and the city council and the like on the way the Council behaves as lawgivers. In many cases, it is said to pass language groups because communities do not feel that they have enough money to care for them. It is of course very serious if the Council so advanced in their communities that they cannot function under established laws and simply want to stop and give them litigation. It's very serious.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u225	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a fine speech. At the beginning of the talk, there was debate. A member of the committee section of the rest of the section that bears the weight - bearing legislation. At the same time, there is a message that says that there is something hurtful about the journey that is burdensome and that we need to change. In the majority opinion, it includes this chapter, by permission of presidents: It requires the minister of the individual case groups to consider the structure, activities, and purpose of the various monitoring institutions and cooperate with the activities they serve. A joint campaign for less tax and less business management is a benefit to the economy and the state's funds. It is later referred to as one of the priorities of the government as a simple rule of professional living. This would be true if these surveillance institutions were not more or less useful in serving consumers and the public. I'm going to list what surveillance agencies there are as much of the budget board is sending messages to their highest level. Minister on the committee's opinion that something has to be done. It's the Food Agency, Media Services, Marketing Authorisationr, U.S. A.A., U.S.A., Administrative Service, U.S.A. A greater proportion of the legal committee would like the Ministers to cut down there and stop letting the surveillance institutions be burdensome and consult with the job life they serve. [[The president calls.]] I would like to ask a senator if she does not find it strange that there is no mention of the common people or consumers in this relationship. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u226	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you. A senator for this question. In this philosophy, I find crystal crystal crystal clear, tied here to Icelandic political politics in the 1990's and in the early 21st century, that the state should create a rule that would be easy to handle for an enterprise. I don't think that the General as a lawgiver or legislator in general should be in some special business pursuit. They're supposed to make a regular work around the workplace. They are to create a rule that really protects the person from the business. That's why we're with the Food Institute, an espionage lab, Human Rights Agency, Marketing Authorisation Agency. What happened, e.g. In China, where there was glass in baby food and other similar food? I'm very serious that what's going on here is specifically stated that the financial cost of the FEC doubled over the period. This is taken into account in a long and detailed report by the General Commission on how the SEC was directly financed to reduce the oppressive surveillance of banks. This supervision is not burdensome. This supervision is absolutely necessary for a healthy banking system to survive in a banking community. What happened during the day? Yes, Luxembourg's vice-book manager flew to Iceland to give credit to the bank manager and bank manager of Iceland because they broke the law, they broke the public well-being of the banking system, and it was all under the SEC.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u227	Mr. President. I'm surprised at this section of the Committee masks of the greater part. I find it very strange that the greater part should use a committee opinion using a budget bill to give its advisers a message about something that will probably be done for the second budget, since there is nothing special in the budget bill or the adjustment laws involved in these institutions, except, of course, the cut-off to the Councilman of the Council, who comes from a greater part of the legal committee. What a sobering thought! Hv. A member of the Parliament named the report of the General Commission. In the autumn of 2010, 63 members of the General Assembly agreed to make a resolution. One of the lines of that Senate resolution is about surveillance, and the General concluded that the collapse of the collapse was a failure of surveillance agencies. It is then investigated and discussed both the SEC and the Federal Bank. I wondered if any new senators who came in during the last election and even some of the older ones might not have read the AWA report, asking why. A senator would think it wasn't a good idea for us to get a lesson and a review of the comments made there to remind us so we wouldn't be in the same stinking pit as we were in before a crash.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u228	A respectable president. Everything's right. I would agree with that as a matter of course. paritaprevir Harðardóttir G. Hardydóttir's published. I agree that members of Congress just need instruction or a review of key chapters on what happened here before a crash. People seem to be ready to forget. All of a sudden, an 18-year-old girl, woke up to the fact that all banks had crashed in the country. I asked my teacher in Latin if I could run over the Savile Street and take all my money from the bank. This is something I experienced. I was sure this was just over. Now I have read a report on the cause and conduct of the bank crash by the General Commission. When I see this same theme come back, like it is. A senator read up earlier, it is exactly the same thing as in the 1996 Declaration of Independence Party and exactly the same thing that was in a declaration to be sold at the bank of 2001◯2003. So I have to ask, and it's my job to ask and monitor what the greater part is doing. I'm very, very serious what we see here. It is very serious that in a political way, the financial independence of the Allied emissary is being weighed. I really hope, because it is very important, that the more part will make a political decision to strengthen the agent of the Generals because there is not much of the credibility that the greater part has at the present time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u229	V.E.G. President. Now I'm in my office getting ready to talk to you about our budget in 2015. Listening to this discussion and observing it has been very interesting. You're always studying. A man never gets drunk in this study or being a politician, I think I'll be head of it. I often find it a bit complicated. However, I often wondered when I decided to go into politics about how to act in this battle that is here. One of my politics was to try to change them. In the Battle of the Year, we proclaimed in our campaign that we wanted to change politics and try to make them a little different, to take note of what was written in the General Commission's report, to accept what people were saying in the community that called for there to be another debate and conduct toward one another. It was especially after a collapse, and after the last term, which was naturally quite unique in the history of the nation of Israel, anyway, as I remember watching politics. Watching what took place here during the last term was natural with pure contrasts, how people treated one another, and how they acted. It changed amazingly in Iceland during the last term, and there was a lot to play in, this elaborate Icesave case, the national court and a number of things that made it all on fire. Trust in human beings simply disappeared, which is extremely serious, for trust is a key factor in human relations. When it begins to diminish, there is no good. That's exactly what I've felt about the characteristics of an Icelandic society for a long time now, a lack of trust and respect and harmony, if I may say so. Émile Durkheim, a French sociologist who spoke about ethics, but I studied at the university in politics for a semester, and then I read about that concept and, by permission of the president, would like to quote what I found in Wikipedia: ▪ Deforestation is a term that points to the resolution of a community in which cohesion and traditional organization, especially those related to reference and values, has fallen and is accepted as lawlessness. Émile Durkheim, the originator of the Reformation doctrine, believed that morals were usually a cognition of fast social changes, such as economic hardship or social goods. Because traditional standards get weaker without the formation of new ones, they do not properly know how to interact with one another. I think it applies to the Icelandic community over the last few years. We do not know how to deal with others, and there is nothing to say or do in the community without anything going on. I also feel that we politicians have a small responsibility for the way we treat one another here at the General Assembly. I remember when we started here as members of Congress, we took a small course at the highest level. A president who reviewed all of this, how we should conduct ourselves. He pointed out how it had been before and that we should not take seriously the older senators, especially the old foxes, who had been here a long time, we should be careful not to be around them much when they went to the General Assembly, not much of them. [[For example, consider the following: Very good advice.]] You've tried in the longest of the songs to do that. The President spoke of the need to increase the respect of the Generals, which was in absolute historical measure, at which time trust in the General Assembly was measured in the community at an age of 113/412%. I think the last measurements have shown that we're about 14% trust, so we haven't added much to the two and a half years we've been sitting here. I wondered, " Why in the world is this? ' I also wondered, " Why are there people in the world in this fight forever? ' [[Up front.]] Current management forces point to the last government. I think the last thing you can do to point out someone else when you're trying to hide your own pussy. I don't know if I should call this a pussy, but maybe it's a strong word. But I don't like it when people try to hide something or justify something they do by saying, "He did it. How did you do that? I don't think it's an amazing time at the General Meeting for our discussion and the discussion of almost anything, this big one, in this eternal fight, and pointing to each other. I believe that with more communication and cooperation, much better results can be obtained. That's what the budget is, when we're working on the budget bill. The bill has been inside a committee for three months. One of the highest. At the beginning of the 2013 Summit, the president told us that he would also stress that matters would be in advance so that they could have good and material discussions and that they could be completed at the appointed time. It's never worked out. The budget debate now is ten, eleven days behind an amazing plan. Then we come in a talk chair and talk for days about this and argue constantly instead of working the matter much better on the opposite committee. Men may find it naive to me to say this or simply say it. I'm totally together, I'm just a simple man, I'm as imperfect as I can be. But I'm trying to do my best, and I've tried to do it from the very beginning. I remember speaking at the beginning of a council that I encouraged the government for fine works, not necessarily a government opponent. I would be just a senator elected by the nation, in fact, a replacement senator who collapsed last into the council, I am the 63th member of the nation. Last but not least, and I'm trying to do my best. [[Up front.]] I've tried to treat everyone with respect here, and I think we should. Now I have nothing bad about the highest. Prime Minister to say, this man does not know too much, but I still feel that he has failed as prime minister. He's been on the clock forever with his people, with his scholars, his journalists, and no one to say anything, a man who won a triumph in elections. I would have slapped my chest and worn my head high. But he's been at war forever with everyone, and I don't think so. That's not a good sign. You're often sad at work. I have often felt sad about how we manage our work here because we are the kin to protect the greater good. It's politics. A national success is the work of a politician and a senator. Everything we do here should be determined that it will be good for the nation. All criteria should be based on this. All the criteria for bill should be the question: Is that for the benefit of the nation? I wondered if these budgets are here to improve what is lacking in a modern society. The government officials and the government officials have been very diligent in saying that this is all in the blues, here is a basking good news, told the governor of the United States, and more eloquent men. That's a fact. There's been economic growth in Iceland for the last five, six years. But I don't think that's going to work, e.g. not in the health system. I don't necessarily know much about it, but I'm listening to people who are working on it, the director of the Land Hospital, the president of the Medical Association, doctors. Last day, Styrmir Gunnarsson wrote, saw a man present, a fistula on his website where he encourages the government to reexamine his mind on the micro-mates and older citizens and the health system. Why not yield? He even bears witness. To Ólafur Thor, the good man, he did it some time, left behind. Why don't we do that? Why not? It's a bunch of baloney kindies. The stability progress of entering next year. If it's not an opportunity now, when? This has been noted in the talks of many people. Councilmen who know far more about financial matters than I ever do, such as. Yeah. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's rock mask, which has been very detailed in the way these cases have been - he has been trying to defend himself, which is not unnatural, when attacked, they defend themselves - it's a wonder that there's no more money left in three years. They're almost starving the health system. It may be strong to say, but it doesn't. It's just that way. I also wondered that after a quick year of the collapse, and the last government was struggling to reach down the wealth of hundreds of billions of dollars, and he succeeded and returned a comfortable farm, all in the community, in strikes, and in strife, and in all dissatisfaction. Why? I used to wonder. Why is this so difficult? It is more than 90% of the people who have reported in surveys that the health system is to be placed in full priority. It is absolutely a foundation in modern society, in welfare society, that the health system works. If we have a poor health system, we will start to snorkel. I've noticed as a senator, I've traveled a lot and talked to a lot of people about the mental health of children, and other things, that these matters are in a lot of trouble, like so many other things in our lives. For example, the subject of a prisoner's life. There are five or six or seven people who care for 600 prisoners, many of whom are facing overwhelming problems, spiritual problems. Nothing's done, pretty much nothing. In fact, about 45 million are added to the prison facility. K., I'm celebrating, which includes using to open a babyhouse again. What is involved in shutting down a house for children in prison? It is shameful for a people who have signed the children's covenant. In fact, it is in the law of full punishment that the head of the prison should handle the fact that children are allowed to meet their parents, often at very delicate times. This is not to be followed, I must say exactly as it is. I would like to read an article that I found online and that I have read before, and I have already quoted it here. It's about weekend. The author of this article is referring to an aspect that was shown about Ólafur Thors, the great and great man. [[Take it up in: Independence.]] Yes, an independent. [[Up front.]] Yes, he was a great man. I just want to say that. paritaprevir Oddný Harðardóttir. He was a great man in the history of the nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u230	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u231	We can debate whether he was in the right category, but that's another matter. The author of this article said that he watched an article on Ólafur Thors and now wants to deny that the program was a bit thin, and it adds no general knowledge of this political officer, who then says, by permission of the president: ▪ There was a review of one particular factor that captured my mind, since words sometimes add weight to a particular situation. This was a brief glimpse of Ólafur's giving a talk shortly after the establishment of the 1944 Republic. Then he said, among other things, that the American republic of England is a weekend. And the writer continues: ▪ The word "ethnic " is made clear, as if it were a legal term and a symbol of a personal security confirmed by the law of the law of the English Dictionary of Culture. Today, it is a stretching term, and not everyone may get the same sense of it. But I think that in view of many evidences, the word "management " actually means more than a single legal concept, because of the latter part of the word, which includes a degree of immunity and holiness. At least I allow myself to understand Ólafur's words so that the foundation of the Icelandic republic should be a human vision, that in the new total freedom of the nation there is an opportunity and, in fact, the need to create a society of free people who are trying to bring about a prosperous national life with human rights, empathy, and justice guided. Such a vision involves wish and vision. And idealism requires loyalty and service. Therefore, those words of Ólafur must require that those chosen to take the lead in the nation serve the idea of privacy, which is the motto of the Icelandic republic. Then the writer asks: 'And how has it been achieved?' This was written 18 years ago or 1997. He continues: ▪ Is the motto of the Icelandic republic still a weekend? It may be that in the minds of some, and I hope for many, - but not in the minds of those who now have power in Iceland, so much is certain, though the second company preached the policy of putting the person in the first place. Rather, it is cold market thinking, which may not be felt with less fortunate ones, and above all, the motto needs good. I wondered if this is true now. Could it be that the situation is similar?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u232	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u233	No, let's say what. paritaprevir Brunes the Brynjar of Níelsson. I don't know, I'm asking. By permission of the president, I continue to quote the article: ▪ It is not in the name of humanity that a few humans have, in fact, been given the highest resource of the nation, the unfished fish of the sea. It is one of the most serious mistakes of Icelandic politicians, so injustice must arouse the wrath of all people who have a sense of justice. You can wonder if what he says is right. I think there's an amazing amount of stuff in there. He continues: ▪ There is no moral apathy and protection in the name of humanity. Our land, its natural nature, and its land quality, is the prospect of our existence. It is incredibly shortsighted to harm it for the sake of temporary interest. We remember how the discussion was in our discussion of a frame plan. This is where people have talked about the need to expand the cake in Iceland. I don't agree with that. I don't necessarily see the need to expand the cake in Iceland. She has to be right. That's what I'm talking about. More needs to be distributed, and more people need to take on a little more effort so that we can pursue a good welfare community. The writer continues, with permission of the President: ▪ It is not human weekend guided by what Icelandic schools are given to finance and teachers ill - paying. Young people's good education is a key to their future success. Education is largely an investment for the future, and we know how the situation has been in the educational affairs of the nation during the past year and how it has been highest. Minister of education, e.g. for high school, with reduced bioavailability 25 years of age and older. I don't think that's the point of improving the nation's interests. But the author continues: ▪ It is not in the name of humanity that the health system is almost paralyzed before our eyes. That's what he writes in 1997. And do you realize that after that, there has been an alluring kinder in the area where people were asked in a storm if they did not see the party? Those who are sick are referred to cold ice. What a misunderstanding it is to think that it is financially acceptable to keep people ill, as well as to show a tragic lack of compassion! It is not in the name of humanity to sit near passively watching drug abuse damages Icelandic youths, even destroying their lives. We're trying to make it right, but we can do better. That's perfectly clear in 2015. ▪ It's not in the name of humans how older people have been treated. The latest news is that it is best for an elderly couple to divorce in order to increase their income. Is that not a clear example of how deep feelings are despised? This is of interest to those who have recently walked over the affairs of older citizens and disability. There's a lot of numbers and percentages here, and I don't doubt that it's the right thing to say. I agree with what. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson when he writes that here at council there is no villain. There's no villain here at the Council, although it can be held often when you read social media. [[You're looking at me?]] No, no. I can't believe there's some bad guy here. It's a long way from here. I ain't met no bad guy around here. There are conflicting opinions, that is clear, and different priorities. My focus is that we should think of those who are lazy in our community. We should think of them primarily when it comes to improvement. It hasn't been done. Not enough. That's for damn sure. It may well be that some have good things that are poorer or older citizens, and that is, of course, the case. It is full of rich older people who have enjoyed it and who have worked hard to get their own years together and nothing to say. But there is an amazing number of people who hardly have a knife or spoon. That's the way it is. You've had the experience in these last days when people are calling you or sending you mail and telling you their story. Are these people lying? No, I don't think so. I've seen it with my own eyes. I got a call from an old man in Keflavík the other day. He gets 170 grand a month. That's why 90 of you go. K. ... rent. Then he has to fire himself. He's a cancer patient, but he can't take medication. It's so expensive to see a doctor. I don't know. I'm kind of thinking about where we are. I'm going to continue to quote this article, it's very good. [[On the other hand, who is she after?]] We'll see. By permission of the President: ▪ What are the main concerns of Icelandic families? It may be summed up in seeing far too much of a lack of respect for privacy. The Icelandic family has to make ends meet first. She wants to give her children good education and protect them from the dangers of alcohol and drugs. She wants health security, that disease will not destroy their financial situation, as there are examples in other parts of the world. She wants to enjoy a measure of security in her later years and a measure of respect for the services devoted to society. And she wants spiritual freedom. These are not really complex problems, and if a political party would know how to stress them seriously rather than in promises that are so tough, I think that the political party would have access to the people. At the same time, however, we must give up the terrible injustice we face. How should Icelandic employees accept their profits, when they see that privileged men have the same monthly wage as they earn a year's wages, as well as other benefits? Consider, for example, a single mother with two children in a rented home and with a fishing business. Are there many who want to trade it? Do you think it's an example of the humanistic ideals of the Icelandic republic? I think it's time we Iceland and I reevaluate our position and make up our mind. Are our present circumstances in harmony with our nation's will? Do we accept the spirit of marketism? Or do we want to return to the goal that the country's motto is human weekend? This article wrote Njörður P. Njarðvík, in the May 28, 1997, issue of the morning. This article has made me wonder where we are in 2015. Has anything progressed on us, or are we still a disgusting society where no ideals or princely rule are being held? Or there is just a power struggle and greed, as a good man said in a report by the Allied Research Committee, a man who had worked, including one. In the Independence Party, for the Independence Party, and was editor of the Morning Press for almost 50 years? I believe him. I believe what he says about this community. I wondered if the community is a special interest force. Are They Put First? I know it's a tremendous pressure on politicians to take personal interest. This may be evident when we lower our hunting expenses. I know the structure is extremely well fired and can be the pride of us Icelanders. I really care about Icelandic fishing, and I worked in it for 30 years. I have seen how it has prospered and rose in recent years, especially when the dollar collapsed and the burden on the common people in the country became extremely heavy. But then the fishing grounds and export branches flourished. I've mentioned it here in a talk chair, and we can mention how this was in the past when such exports as the seaside road were cut down, and the burden was placed on the common people. Now that it's all about them, they're desperate to pay hunting fees. It has also been asked, " What are normal fishing costs? ' What is normal in paying for material advantages, as is the case with this particular price for fishing? It was 72 billion last year, wasn't it? Is it normal that we're paying 10% of that, do we think that, of the resource we have together? I don't know. Why don't we talk about it here? Why do we not try to reach a conclusion? Why do we not try to make peace with our society about this? We own this resource together, and we rent it out to certain parties, and they've done a great job, and it's got to be said right now, in recent years. Icelandic developers are the world's top, that's just the way it is, I'm not going anywhere off it. In times of distress and distress, they will go back and help, more than they can do. They pay natural income taxes and insurance bills and all but everybody else, all other companies. But they have access to this resource, and enormous numbers of people have become greatly enriched in the resources of the nation. I don't regret it, if enough money, but then they can pay to the community as well as the rest of us, and more. It also refers to rural income companies and how to promote them. Unbelievably many in the rural community just pay capital taxes, that's a lot of examples, pay almost nothing for society. I don't know, but I know it's not easy. I don't necessarily feel envious of a financial committee having to face the challenge of evading the budget every year. That's an enormous amount of work, an amazing number of mails to look at. That is why I feel that we should put an even greater emphasis on working together, on the contrary, much more united than perhaps being done in the Ministry of finance by government officials there. It is then a great struggle to collect money for the others and for these projects. One of the things I've noticed and discovered as a senator on my travels through the district and throughout the world is this amazing uncertainty that exists everywhere. [[Up front.]] People are always confused. They never know what's going to happen next year. [[Up front.]] Yeah, that's life. For example, we might do this in the community so that people have a three - year plan. Seriously. There have been some committees who say that the greater part of the year is going to try to make ends meet and fight for their next budget. [[Set up on a set of institutions.]] I am referring, among other things, to an organization of stakeholders and others dependent on a trust fund. It's an eternity of uncertainty. I also wondered, " Why don't we always take four years, and why don't we work more to see the future? ' Eight years is four years. [[Set up on the record: Official finance.]] Yes, it is a very positive step that all rejoices. But how do we want our community? I know at least Iceland is a good community, they're arguing about it, but it's totally clear. No one can do that. Yet, there is a wide pot that we could easily fix by making more money. They have spoken of the riches tax. It is very controversial that it should have been changed. I don't know. Maybe you'll say that and you can believe in speaking here in a speech chair, but if I had more than hundreds of millions, I wouldn't regret paying off my wealth of money that I'd gotten from the people, even from the nation's resources. I think there's a huge opportunity for us in many areas. For example, the travel service, the host's fee, to raise it. One of the first things that this government took for a 7% rise in the cost of stay. That was the first thing she did. She struck by an investment plan; she stole the application plan of parts of the country that were, in my mind, an amazing project that was accomplished throughout the country of over a thousand people. National and rural meetings. I remember on my first trips to the district after it had been done. That was awesome. We senators were called team lice, even I who had nothing to do with it. But there it is. People need to have a wide back as politicians, but I believe we're all trying to do a good job. [[The point is, you can say.]] We disagree about these and other things, but we are to put the greater good in our lives, and we are to listen to what the people say. We should listen to what people are talking about. If 95% of the nation wants the poor and older citizens to have the same salary as the lowest wage they pay. That's what the people want. 90% of the people want us to focus on putting money in the health system. There's certainly been more in the medical system, that's right, I'm not dating it. It's been put more money, but that's just not enough. This is not doing itself. I listen to people who work every day with them, and they're running low. We're almost to the limit. I don't know. I feel like I'm really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, [[The point is, are you done with it?]] I'm totally done with that, then, Madam President. Seriously, we're standing here arguing about this, but it's quite known what the people's will is, but we're not going to do it. [[Up in the hall: right.]] It's like, for example. in the EU Member States. [["What do you say? "]] 85% of the people wanted to finish it. Why didn't we? Who are we working for if we are not ready to do this? That was a very big promise. Price insurance was also one of the promises. Why hasn't she gone? Why don't you take it off? That's what the people want. [[Up front.]] The country wants your insurance policy away, and you promised it. [[Up front.]] [[Up top, not me.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u234	Now read the books.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u235	These are good books. I would encourage all members of the council to acquire these books. Reading them, valuing our values in society, how we build a good community of solidarity and harmony, taking one another into consideration. Let us be humble, not arrogant. Humility is a very good virtue. A humble person is mild - tempered, and he takes into consideration what others do and feel about other works. It seems to me that we lack a little bit of that here, and even the Icelanders. I've said that before in a speech chair. We need to improve our social skills in Iceland. That's got to say a lot about an 80 billion tax fraud in Iceland. 80 billion. That's no quarter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u236	There's a lot you could do for them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u237	Yeah. You could do a lot for them. [[Take it up to New Hospital.]] We're supposed to be in a new hospital a long time ago, that's perfectly clear, and it would have given a huge, what I can say, a baloney, yes, a truck in society. [[Top of the line: Distraction.]] Seriously. It is our job to give them strength and hope. [[Up front.]] That's what we're supposed to do. We should do all we can to that end. I realize it's not easy to put together the budget and there's a lot of pots broken. I also wondered, as if by transportation, law enforcement, it's being put on more money, but for example, Southland, I'm now from the South Sea. I think almost every tourist in Iceland goes through Southland up to Gold Falls and Geyssi. The roads there are frightening, amazing traffic, pressures, and harassment on the inhabitants outside all of the southern monotonous bridges. They're special darts. Clearly, in the years that follow, we have to spit our palms hard. Much has been discussed with the tourist industry and how to get money from it. All we're supposed to do is put a party fee in a passenger and enough food. We're not supposed to be afraid of that. This is done in many parts of the world, making money for society to build up so that we can receive these people. If there's an increase in the number of tourists every year, I can't see how we're going to do it, because it's already a hell of a lot. V.E.G. President. All I know is that I love Icelandic society, and I love my partner at the General Assembly, and I want everything to work for this community to flourish and prosper. But we need to fix our work here, and we need to adjust our attitude toward one another, to increase the way and respect of the Generals, and to work more closely together on important matters, such as financial laws, which are the biggest laws of the year, which all of which are involved, do so well, and with the interests of the common people, being guided primarily. This does not belong to a community of interest which, unfortunately, I think our community is a bit much. We don't get as much out of what we have as we should do, I can name a different source of energy than the water in the relationship and resource of energy. That's what we're supposed to look at together and figure out how to get more money out of it to run a good society. A community that is open, prepared to receive new residents but does not dismiss them from the country. There's nothing we can do about the growth. We are kind of too small, too close, really knowing too much, which often calls for corruption, cousinism, and so forth. Madam President. Finally, I'd like to say that we're supposed to increase the way and respect of the Generals, and that's what we do by working better together and cutting off the shoes from one another, and then we're going to gawl each other on a speaker's chair. What did you and what did the other one do? This is the last time and Icezave and all this damned nonsense that all too much time goes on at the Council that makes the people out there have no regard for us and have no confidence in us. Today, a survey showed that 18% of the people trust the government, while 19% of the government's opposition and 23% of the European Union. It's a strange poll. But there are many things that tell us that, as they say in football, we really need to grovel. I believe in Icelandic society, and I believe that if we change this, we will have a bright future.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u238	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for a good talk on a philosophical subject, spoken from the heart. It is a vital reminder to all of us. I'd like to ask you what. Only by the fact that during the last term, many decisions were made that were not popular, about cuts, and things that were very difficult. The main factors involved the difficult decisions that would lead to better times coming, and we could do better with groups such as the elderly and the desperate and other things that had to be cut down because of the collapse. People are actually faced with the luxury of priorities. They are now members of this position: Should they set priorities for the elderly and the poorer or the more wealthy in society? I'd like to hear some attitude. A senator's goal is to pick up the crop, how to divide it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u239	V.E.G. President. My speech taught me just how to set priorities. We are to set priorities in behalf of those who are discouraged in the community. There are many people who are not well, but not many of us are unable to care for them. It's always a question of that. I hear it often out in the community that there's too much compensation. I don't agree with that. My worst salary is just too low and it's always been. There was a lot going on here after a crash. The nation suffered a devastating shock. It has been observed here today that much of the World Bank was controlled by the way things were handled during the last term. But when it turns out well - as I used to come in, economic growth has been four, five years, and a lot of money. We've put 80 billion in the penitentiary. There could have been things you could have done for that money for the losers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u240	Madam President. Now's the time. A member of the Parliament who is the U.S. Marshal of the Children's General... [[A spokesman.]] I'd like to hear about it. Now the birth stock has been impaired, and the status of a child's family is very difficult in Iceland. Children's benefits are impaired at 200 thousand, and the roof of the maximum stocks of birth ordinary has been 350,000 a month, which has resulted in less fathering. This child - rearing situation is very difficult because so much is involved, the synergistic effect, the housing, and so forth. How can you tell? For example, if a senator introduces the proposals of a smaller section of the legal committee in the material that is talking about raising child support and raising the maximum pay from birth or holiday reserves in steps of 500,000 a month, do you think he may be able to make up for it? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u241	V.E.G. President. One of the things a person has a measure of sleep is that he is being squeezed into a baby's family and that he reduces his or her or her womb. It was put in the last term, if I recall correctly, aim to extend the ore to one year that I think we should set our goals and make it possible for parents to spend a year or to split time with them. In recent years, it has been seen that fathers do not use maternity rights. It makes them unable and unwilling to do so, which is very bad because it is one of the most important times in a child. Everybody knows that. We're supposed to make policy. That's one of the things I'm talking about. Why don't we work together on this? In fact, it is said that it is on the welfare committee that performs a significant part of obstetrical affairs and all those involved in births. We have excellent legislation, but we only need to make some adjustments in it, making it a pleasure, such as in other parts of the North.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u242	V.E.G. President. The Council's program features 2nd. of budgets. Here I listened to the longest talk about the council I've been listening to since I began a council. [[For example: Congratulations.]] But I really care about what. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson, he's got a good heart and wants everyone to be happy. Still, he falls into the pit, as many people do, talking like it's just somehow impossible. This may not be enough to deal with the disabled, the cripples, the prisons, the hysteria, and all of it. It's like you think everything is completely changed in a short period of time. Of course, while circumstances are changing greatly for the better, the Kingdom still owes some 1,500 billion. We have a budget with very little money, and it's public interest that the state funds are properly fired and it's also public interest that companies are allowed to thrive. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u243	V.E.G. President. Yes, it may well have been the longest case in the council, but it's just fine. In recent years, I have listened to many talks about the budget. She talked a little about it too, you see, it's all about. I didn't say that it was all impossible, not at all, and I came into my speech that just a lot of really good things are happening, but it's clearly not enough, when we look at the fact that you reduced taxes by 5 to 6 billion a year that didn't matter in the big context of people, not anything. Then you dropped the fishing fees, I'd say it was all right, though they were 15 to 20 billion a year. If EBITDA is 72 billion, I think it would be all right, that it would be 20 billion, apart from the wealth tax that could be 10 billion. You've given up money that'd make it a whole bunch of fucking money here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u244	V.E.G. President. When people read the experiences of old communists about modeling society, it is no wonder that people speak like that. It's what it is. Of course, we've taken far more hunting fees than the last government did, but I don't think we can compare it. paritaprevir Páll Björnsson that from the beginning we would have had hunting fees in the way men are talking about now that these companies had become as big and powerful, had invested as much, had invested in foreign countries from where most of the profit comes? He doesn't come here for an act. The profits of big companies like Granda and Samherja are more and less from abroad. You need to put this into some context. The cake is not divided, so it has no effect on taking taxes from companies and it has no impact on investments. If you stop investing, economic growth will stop too. This is the overall context of the objects you need to consider. It's our job to get more money, to run a government fund, and with leftovers, and to pay off debts. [[The president calls.]] It is, of course, the nation's interests. [[Exploited by Iceland taxes...]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u245	Yeah, Iceland's interests, yeah. You're talking about them not having --what. þm. Brynjar Nielsson says that we've been working too hard on this company. [[Premium on: Honor.]] I don't agree with him on that. He's talking about investments. Is it, then, like cow farms, morning newspapers, oil companies, and printeries? [[Up front.]] Yes, they are investing on a large scale. For example, on the Hornipelago they funded a cow farm and then came here to the Generalis to ask for 30 to 40 million to deepen the Grynsins. [[Up front.]] In a few years, they paid 6 billion for it. No, no, no. A senator, this is - they are paying for more billions of dollars from this article every year for profit. [[The point is, is there 6 billion... are there any money?]] It's all right, it's fine, but then they're also totally equipped to pay more into society. That's for damn sure. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u246	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson, a powerful speech. He went through many fields and spoke from the heart. He introduced much in his talk and spoke about the social routine. I had a feeling. A senator himself was unsure of the real situation and whether we were on the right side of this trip or not. I know why. A senator is in the foundation of his heart, a socialist. Good if I didn't hear why. A senator speaks a lot about cooperation and even the importance of personal worth. That's what we know about candidates. I'm gonna ask you what. Senator: What's the mood? A senator of his own? Is this a good place or isn't it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u247	V.E.G. President. Is there any kind in here? That's what wiser men in these cases tell me that there's more good in here. I'm not sure there's a little bit more good in here. That's why I don't quite understand why we can't put more money into our health system and bend the waves of society that have been. If there's more good in society, there shouldn't be so much turmoil. That's what makes me think if we're on the right track, if society's on fire. We can't deny it. That's the way it is. Just last time, the report between Stefánsson and the highest. Prime Minister - this is quite deaf. But my feelings are that we're on the right track. There's been economic growth here, and there's more money coming into the system that could be even greater. But my feelings are that we're on the right track.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u248	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson for the answer. From definitions, it's gooder here, really, at least we're at the top of an advantage. Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hjörvar's life was a fine way of reviewing the progress and analysis of this. According to the definition, if it's been slow, economic growth has been over for four years. It is said that the duration of the economy fluctuation is 7◯12 years, but this varies. The collapse here happened with a single click, like a flat. In fact, there was a member of the body of elders who spoke in a fine manner. Then we must adhere to standards in order to see if we are on the right track to divide the cake properly, as it were. A senator accurately expressed it. I'd like to point out the Habitat biography survey that tells us that the Giini constant was never lower, as a sign of the equation, here never was as few under the low limit for a long time, or 7.9%, as the distribution of income in Iceland being equal between people as it was before seen in this biography study in 2014. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u249	V.E.G. President. It's good if you're right. That is why I wonder, " Why is this turmoil in society? ' Are we Icelanders empty freckled dogs? What makes me so uncertain, like a cot. A senator mentioned earlier, and rather sad is the situation in the community. As I came in earlier, there is a moral breakdown and the way we associate with one another. I think we here at the council could be examples in how we should treat one another, especially the tops. V.E.G. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. Secretarys and Ministers over their heads are required to lead the wagon. I found in my talk that I was at the highest level. The prime minister has not done well enough, and he is far too quick to answer people with presumptuousness and joy. I don't know, maybe we can argue about it. There is a lack of evidence that society is inexplicably unhappy and has been in a long time, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u250	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson for the speech. He went through many fields, and I agree in any way that I feel that the senator is rather pessimistic, especially in the light of the information as a boy. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson has gone back to answer to me. The Senator turned to my point, and I was a little involved. You see, that's tax fraud. A government taxpayer recently visited a financial committee, and it reported that there are estimated 80 billion tax frauds in the community each year. It's an entire national hospital that doesn't come into Iceland's economy because of tax fraud. Rather than constantly speaking down what is well done here on the land, let us not encourage these individuals to obey the law. There's a real lawbreaker for 80 billion. [[The president calls.]] And there is much you can do for that amount.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u251	V.E.G. President. I'll take my whole mind off with what. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, we need to resolve ourselves in an effort to get people to pay our bills. I don't know how we do it unless you encourage people to think more deeply about society. I think that we could do the same by furthering our community education in school. Unfortunately, there is not enough teaching in the article where we teach - in fact, the objective of basic school law is focused solely on how to create good people who may live in a community. I think Iceland and I have a little crazy about it. In part, Páll Skúlason, former head of the University of Iceland, said that we have put far too much emphasis on education rather than on education. Education is about making good people, but unfortunately, Iceland and I seem to be somehow in need of more community intelligence. I don't want to say that I'm very pessimistic, I've noted that I was a bit optimistic that we could, if we turned the pie together and sheathed the sword more, have a lot of success in Iceland. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u252	I appreciate the counter-relevant, a respectable president. This tax fraud, as well as the action the senator took in his speech, spoke of great turmoil, and called for answers on how it felt. This may be part of the fact that this is a matter of divisive politics. In Sweden the government puts out its own budget bill so that members of Congress have a choice which way to go. In this country, the state of justice is the government that contributes to the government's budget, and now this discussion has become the longest in the history of the Council of 2rd. ... abundant. There's some kind of filibuster in here. I'd like to take this idea further, because that doesn't mean we're taking up better education in schools to have hands with those tax evasions who are actually traveling at the expense of those who have to rely on the state; the health system, the infrastructure, the older citizens, the desperate, the education system, the transportation system. [[The president calls.]] What suggestions have the senator made in this situation that we could immediately go to?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u253	V.E.G. President. No doubt there are many ways to do so. I think that by increasing surveillance and creating some kind of thing, I heard a black success that would go to work and find tax evasion. There is talk of massive tax fraud, such as travel, and nowhere as much as on the merit tax. I think it's going to have to make some kind of patrol, I don't know, team or just keep up surveillance and find out who's cheating and who's not, and so I'm going to get that money. Surely that will not be easy, for cheating and getting away and using all manner of tricks are very persistent. I think that primarily we should appeal to people's conscience, teach them, and discuss more in our community how we create a good society, how we run it, how to get it going, and how to work a good society. As I said before, we need to improve our social skills. I'm an old teacher, or old, I taught one year in elementary school, and when you talk about it to children, they come from the mountains when you ask, "Who pays the bride that's being broken?" Who will pay to clean up the garbage, and who will pay for it will break bulbs in lamp posts? They thought it was just the guy in the house downtown, kids in eighth grade. They have no idea that it's the parents who pay for it and the community. We need to increase this teaching, I think, to further promote society. That's my opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u254	Madam President. My time has begun. If the highest. The president says that we are still meeting here, even though I understood that there was an agreement until midnight. We just have to see how time lasts. V.E.G. President. A lot of what? In this discussion, members of the Parliament have made it possible that even some people had a long time, talking about how working related to the budget has been delayed and how it has taken so much time. Councilmen are talking about filibusters. We're not sure about that. It has not been enough for the council to start before. The whole programme is off-limits. It is clear that she should have delayed the assembly today, but we are evidently a long way from doing so. Many things have been said in 2nd. the budget that does not directly depend on the budget or the financial work. It has been noted that members of a committee party are simply wrong. The financier, that it was decided by the last government to lower the radio rate to 16.400 a.m. It is true that this decision was taken to disband a bill to legalize a number of budgets for 2014, which was taken from the Council of December 2013. It's been pointed out, and the president's name has been pointed out. Of course, legal committees need to correct this. Regarding the radio charge, it has also been pointed out that the government's proposal has not yet been submitted. Secretary of education and culture that the radio rate is unchanged. So here, there's some uncertainty. Also, yesterday's report has been made that changes to less than 1.2 billion were either lost or passed through the courtyards and not obtained from a teacher - trained agreement. This is not to increase your faith in the process either. During this discussion, I recalled a question that I had asked the highest. Minister of society and housing to the 1st. ... aboutthelaws. It was about a team in the budget that's in terms of improvements under social assistance or further compensation in which figures in the budget collapsed. I asked if this could be due to not being expected to increase all income targets in the social security benefits when disability benefits had gone up, but then I received the answers to the failures and corrections for the 2nd case. ... abundant. That was indeed done. I found this in the suggestions of most parts when I began looking for them. It says that there are adjustments in terms of government approval and proposals to correct the team's budget. The 2015 budget would include 72 million. K. a donation was made by the Ministry's budget to change the income limit for further pension improvements. The point was unchanged since 2010 but was increased by 12.5% at the beginning of 2015 and would have been intended to increase the criteria further if there was room. During the current year, the target would not have been elevated, and the cost would have been estimated to be about 60 billion. K. ... underthepriestsoftheyear. In the 2016 bill, this team would have been reduced by mistake about 60 million. K. which would have been wrong in the view that it was a ruined budget range, not a system-based trend. It's always picking up something that's better to go. In itself, it may not be unnatural with such a huge case as the financial bill. There are a lot of things that need to be done. I wondered, " Is it all right for me to get through 2nd? ' the budget will last for some time because there is a lot to be seen in the conversation that is happening here, and therefore it just needs a little breath. The discussion needs to grow. Things have been going missing and coming in. I just like this discussion to take some time. I made in my first speech yesterday the business of disabled persons to talk and what is said in at least two committee views, where local communities say that they lack money from the State because of the group that has been more capitalizing than expected in a country - to - farm transfer. It was yesterday, and I wondered if there was any change in plans for the 3rd. ... abundant. So today the agreement between state and rural society was signed: A final meeting of state and rural society for financial support of rural services to disabled persons. I'm glad that this agreement has succeeded today, and it is vital that this class have been well established. The agreement, which appears in six articles, says in Article 6 and last, by permission of the president: ▪ Premier on the approval of the Generals. The meeting schedule is made in advance that the Council agrees with the need for legal adjustment and the change in financial law. This must mean that there will be some further change. As I'm saying, it's just as well that the discussion wasn't over, because it's a very important matter. Again, I rejoice that this discussion will take some time because it will produce something. In this case, she gives it to the fact that people in the community will be better disabled. Of course, I think that's very good. V.E.G. President. There is something else that makes me think that this discussion has a means of being a breather, for the budget is a huge deal. I had quite a bit of fun speaking at the time. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson's son here, who reviewed the largest picture, for to me, financial laws are nothing more than one huge community affair. The secret is the recipe for how we're going to set the spending side by the way we run the community. Of course, bigger things do not happen. In my speech yesterday, I was primarily talking about what I think is a big thing when it comes to this group, but then I got a question in answer to a matter I must admit that I had simply not seriously wondered about, and that is the subject of the National Library of Iceland. Today, members of Congress received a letter from a local U.S. Marshal's administration. In that letter, there is something very remarkable. It attributes more than one part of the budget proposal to a bill for 2016 to sell to Iceland's National Archives but to buy or rent another suitable home. I must admit that I am not an expert on documents, and that letter made it important to me. It gives me some insight into these documents, more than I had yesterday when I was asked about the subject, since this is why housing under the archives needs certain advantages and moving is not proper. We're talking about a huge amount of documents, 42 [42] shelf kilometers, says this letter, of documents that would be available from Central Street in Reykjavík to Hoager, so moving one such collection is quite an enormous example. In view of rent, building, design, or shopping for new facilities under the archives, the letter shows that there was no cost to food. It also points out that between the purchase of the House of the Radar of Music in 1985, it took 13 years for the last documents to be moved from the museum and the new National Archives. As I say, I am no expert on filing matters, so I accept this letter. You see, it is with us senators that even though we try, I think, all of us as best we can be careful at work, we don't know all about everything. We've been talking a little bit about the General Assembly meeting, and it looks like it's for who it is at night. I find it important, as this letter shows, that vast numbers of people are always observing the discussion each time they respond. Fortunately, we receive a lot of letters from the public that have an opinion and knowledge of matters, even knowledge we don't have, or I don't care how much I try to be careful with my work and read to myself. I think we should keep this in mind. We are at the General Assembly of the Icelanders. We are expected to listen to people, and we are expected to keep meeting in daylight as people are alert and able to observe our work. I'm happy to think about having a meeting in the afternoon or at night, because then the public has time to observe our work. V.E.G. President. All of this said I could see as much as it did that it would be good for the budget to take a little time because there have been a lot of things in the discussion and, unfortunately, it seems, even though the council started early, things still remain unsolved with the budget. There are still some important things to be made, such as the making of collective agreements that need to be maintained. Similarly, the government made a agreement with the rural communities on the affairs of disabled people today. Let me hope the government is still going to issue a bill saying that the radio bill is still unchanged. I hope that we will make better money than ours. To me, it was very interesting what appeared in an anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - A. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, Chairman of what? The World Fundament Committee, said that it was at a meeting of the Committee that the government tax manager said that 80 billion, i.e. one land hospital, would be betrayed by taxes. I can't see any better than those words say. The head of the budget board shows that the changes in the memory of the part are fully funded and better than that, since this is merely four billion that are due to improve tax control. That should be possible. If we are going to collect this money, we should be able to make needed changes in funds. For example, a pensioner could be financed. That could be done entirely, for by a good and reasonable tax system and a good tax service, we have an Icelandic community that should be of no concern to drive a powerful, welfare society. It's all about wanting to run a community of equality and welfare. We have all the equipment we need. We just need to make some adjustments in the budget. I believe it and trust that we will have the good fortune to do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u255	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. It was one of the plans for selling property, the National Archives, which I do not know much about, while there is another authority on the bill for sale of property, that is, the Toll House, and likely on Trygva Street. I wanted the senator to know if they were dealing with what is called the Kolaport I would have thought was part of that building. I just used the trip to ask if it was possible. A senator was familiar with this point. The key point, however, is that the senator stepped aside to clarify the discussion. I have felt that there was some misunderstanding in the administration of directors when it comes to the ideal disability and old - age pensioners that they have had the same increases in the current year as others, and especially with certain ignorance about the amount of money involved, since it's not all about 1 percent. We don't eat percentages. We do not buy food for a percentage or rent a place for a percentage. It's a matter of crowns and pennies. Therefore, I wanted to ask the senator to inform us only about the size of these, the advantage of living pensioners because I know that the senator knows well and also the rise they have received compared with what others have recently enjoyed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-11-52.u256	V.E.G. President. I must admit that I don't know anything about the proposed sale at the Toll House and I must simply pray to the public or to those who know how to send a letter to members of the council. It was indeed useful when the National Archives of Iceland, for as I spoke in my talk, I was not an expert on documents, but I found a number of references to the letter from there. In fact, I think the government's dealership is a thought - provoking thing, especially when it comes to sales of houses in which there is some activity that is supposed to continue. Another house, whether bought or rented, needs to be thoroughly analyzed as to what is most practical for the state's funds. Also, when it comes to U.S.A.'s housing, the idea is to stop renting and building houses owned by the General Assembly. I think it's a little strange that you've been selling property in one place than you've been building on someone else. It doesn't have much harmony. In terms of terms of disability, it has been reported many times in the Iceland's Institute for Micromanism that the provisional revenues are generally in the range of 170±190 Thoust. K. It's a complex system, and there may be quite a number of factors that are involved in managing the total amount of money, but many people have in the range of 170,190. K. for a month's appointment. [[The president calls.]]
