ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-15.u1	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalise a change in income tax law, a law for special taxes on financial companies and financial law, with subsequent changes. The reasons why the bill is presented are that in the past few weeks and months, several things are considered desirable to be more clear and simple in Icelandic legislation and subject to the forced contracts of the pair of dead financial companies. The bill does not suggest changing the government's budget for the year in which capital waste was being introduced. On the contrary, the bill is strengthening the strategy and further contributes to the implementation of emissions. First of all, the bill presents a change due to taxation interest from bonds published in their own name as part of a contract with their demands. In particular, any interest in such bonds, including losses, is suggested to be avoided by the real owner of a bond that does not have unlimited tax obligations in Iceland. The change also means that there is relief from these provisions. This change occurs primarily for technical reasons, as data are available that the largest extracurricular budget and payment due to the publication of European bonds will not be accepted for registration and management on the grounds of local tax laws. Second, a change is made to cut down on tax obligations under the law for a special tax on a financial enterprise. In daily speaking, this tax has been called a bank tax. The government's budget release programme aims to set up an obligation to pay a bank tax if it pays stability or stability tax. However, these governmental plans are not in the laws on the bank tax. The bill therefore suggests that these measures will be improved and clearly laid down to bring down the taxpaying of these parties to the granting of the final confirmation of a legal contract. A nest that gains such confirmation for next year's convention will then be released from the obligation to pay a bank tax in 2016. Also, the same plate does not provide stability tax in 2016. Third, there are several changes in financial law. Before I get to that, I'd like to draw special attention to that section in a paper with the bill on the effect of the changes I traced to the loss of the bank tax and to the relationship with the government's budget, i.e. that, from the beginning, we have assumed that the bank tax would either disappear or at some point fall, as we are saying can happen under those conditions. Of course, it affects the government budget even though only the bill is being viewed for 2016, i.e. It is assumed on the income side of the budget that next year the bank tax will pay itself, but to the extent that these events can affect the payment of a bank tax next year, we have always been expected to make up for it in a certain way through the stability or stability tax. I refer to what says about this in a paper with the bill. The conclusion is, in fact, that there is another substitute. As I traced right away, there are several changes in financial law. I'm gonna get to it right now. The first change in time of discontinuation is considered to be complete with a fixed contract. A law such as this has caused doubt in interpretation. It is therefore suggested that it be made up of and clearly determined when the wearoff is completed by a contract. The second change in the proportion of votes required to accept a contract. That rule was changed at the spring convention by law No. 59/2015. At that time, 90% of the budget's votes were added to meet the smaller stretcher's nest. This means that 90% of demands have been agreed to the contract according to the budget. The bill suggests that the surrounding roof will now be dropped to 85% in order to meet concerns that enough demands will not be met to vote for the contract. One reason for anxiety is that many demands have been accepted, but nothing has been heard since then. It should be noted that thousands of demands described the demands in larger financial companies. Therefore, it is uncertain whether all these demandsmen will eventually be involved in a vote for a bill to be forced into a contract, despite the fact that the agreements have been simplified by legal adjustment at the last legislature, which may in time result in a failure to achieve an adequate ratio to agree with the labour agreements. Finally it is suggested that financial law be added to a broken management contract in order to propose at the demand conference that only the crew registered on the day as a bill to a financial agreement authorized to select a bill for a rape agreement. Specific rules ensure the right requirement to submit to break - up regimes and to prove, if that has been, a requirement shift. A respectable president. Finally, I'd like to assume that in the financial and economic costs, it is in accordance with what I briefly traced here in my speech that if the bill remains unchanged that the law assumes that its direct influence on the state funds will be negligible, including that its legalisation will not interfere with the income-side of a national budget for 2016-52019. According to this statement, a respectable president, the bill will be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee following the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-15.u2	President. As we discussed in the spring or some of these dierent contracts and stable taxes and productions, it's natural one of the biggest cases we've had during this season and maybe for a long time, so it's not surprising if you try at least. questions are well - thought - out. I find it interesting to find in the paper with the bill on page 18. 3 states, with the permission of a president: ▪ As representatives of the participants of the fallen financial companies have received information, they have found that the largest extracurricular organisations and settlements due to the publication of bonds... --◯, i.e. that European companies who handle bonds will not accept what is necessary to eliminate this tax, and it is therefore decided to eliminate it. All right. It may well be true. But is it just that in this bill the representatives of the stretchers, who will obviously have very great interests in all of this, and announce to the minister that it is like this, they will not take it in, and then the running and the bill will be agreed on? Second, I would like to ask, " How important is this? ' Who are these owners? This is further explained in the report that most of these problems fall because of the demands of countries where Iceland has made double tax agreements. Who are the ones who would get into the awkward situation that the big, powerful European companies don't want to get into and figure out what they're going to pay?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-15.u3	Mr. President. In fact, there is something special about this case that everything that concerns the collapse of financial companies and ways that governments have been developing in recent years in order to end their fragments is a measure of a closed world, as the stable tax is evidence. He is particularly directed to this problem, which shows that financial companies have not ended, despite the fact that this is so long gone and that the knot has had to be cut off. This is all part of an operation to eventually free the nation from the capital. In effect, the change in terms of this issue, that the common tax law does not apply, has to be considered in relation to the overall operation below, which is that we are eradicating the level of the pay paid effect of the fragments. One way that it can happen, through stability, is by publishing such letters. This, in turn, leads to the expectation of writing a letter to that person, and as they squeeze that street further, they find that there may be technical obstacles with the implementation if deduction tax is in force in Iceland. I can say with what. A senator that this may be an unfortunate expression in the report, and I accept it only to have presented it that way here. However, that is so that we contribute here to a change designed to pay for the stability of broken marks. [[The president calls.]] In fact, it is only a technical obstacle. It is not to suggest a general change of law. Rather, it is to form a special solution to our main objective of delinquency. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-15.u4	Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. It says that in our member countries, the most connected countries we have with, it became clear of two tax agreements. So I wonder, " Where is this business? Where do they go? ' So who would agree? Obviously, they are not in places where we prefer to do business, and it would be interesting to know where they come from. But I also want to pray to the highest. Ministers to explain something else to me because all of this is to help achieve the stability conditions. I understand that very well. However, we need to be absolutely sure of what we are doing. In spring or summer, the proportion of those who have to agree to a bill was reduced to a contract at a demand meeting from 95% to 90%. Now it's taken down to 85%. I wondered, " Why do we need to lower this even more than did the law that we set for springtime? ' I understood that, but I don't fully understand why a lower one needs it even more now. There is a balance that needs to be balanced between the amount and the number of people. The highest. A minister explained this to me?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-15.u5	Mr. President. What I can say in the first place about the first thing, it's hard to predict exactly where these technical obstacles might be tested. In some cases, as mentioned above, it would be possible to dissolve on the basis of double-folding agreements, in other cases not. It's a bond that's going to be published. They are then looking for a chance to register them abroad and to pay for the trade with the letters. With regard to the second point, I can only point out that this is a fragment that is large by the way I see it, whether we look at the amount of money or the number of shareholders, of an entirely unknown size in Iceland. We're accessing the legislature of the legislature with parts, which, in many ways, are unique in the implementation of the bankruptcy laws. This is especially to see that the number of demands listed here is so vast that it could result in the failure of thousands of demands to take a stand on the basis of what they have described. Under such circumstances, it may be possible that the standards found in the law today, even if we have only made them available or minimized them, will be felt when all is viewed as a bit rigid and unfair. This is to be done primarily in order to facilitate a contract without overstepping or compromising any principles. [[The president calls.]] This is in view of the views presented here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-15.u6	A respectable president. The first comment I'd like to make is that the time comes when there seems nowhere in the bill how much the parole given in Article 1 shows. The bill will have. Has there been an explanation of how much money a government fund will last? It is said here that the change will not have a significant impact since this is not expected in a government account, or whatever it is now. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: How much money is there that will fall out there? Has it been evaluated? What is the situation there? You can't discuss this, at least not 1. Gr., without knowing what the amount is. That's where the premiums are.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-15.u7	Mr. President. In my background, I mentioned that if the bill remains unchanged as a law, its effect on the state funds is insignificant. This bill, if it's still the law, will not interfere with any long-term financial agenda. Of course, we can approach these underlying issues in various ways. One way is to approach this point as a income - harvest operation, asking: How much can we gather in a state fund based on current studies and related cases? I've never been that close. I've seen this way that we were solving a complex matter, the capitalist. It's taken us years. We have provided suggestions that are primarily designed to free ourselves and the nation from the seas. That's what we've introduced a special tax. We've offered stability conditions. It's underlying that we neutralise the fragments in terms of subsidies, i.e. We're making sure that we're done, and we're making sure that we don't have a major impact on the Icelandic bank's gangs. Actually, we're going very far on it. We are not going to accept any apparent effect on the crown. In fact, we're completely neutralising all the broken - up equipment in terms of pressure on the crown's gang. This case, in itself, is like a grain of sand in a large pile of sand when it comes to assessing the effect of all of this. This is a very small case in regard to the technical implementation of the seminary. Even if I understand that people want to understand what this has turned into a trust fund, I think that much better is to consider the whole context of the shares. I want to say in the end: I don't think this question can really be answered because of the number of uncertainty factors, e.g. Because of possible double tax agreements, and in view of what would have been made of letters if people had been taxing and where they had been registered. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There are too many men and women to answer clearly what this would have been like. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-15.u8	A respectable president. I appreciate that. Sounds like the highest. Minister that there's some kind of agreement, if you can say so, that these companies or companies will pay stability money instead of paying the income tax. Am I right? I just have to wonder if it's normal over my head. Is it normal for us to take some special companies and give them an exception from paying income taxes on credits published in Iceland? Paying income taxes is normal, isn't it? What are we doing if we give these letters annulled, but are we not actually giving them 20% of the potential for growth? In turn, how will this affect the sale of bonds? It's very complicated, naturally. V.E.G. Minister may have more insight into this than I do, but at first I think it looks a little bit abnormal, and I wonder if there are any more information we would need to understand the outcome. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-15.u9	Mr. President. For this particular tax, this is not a income tax but is a deduction tax that would have been due under current legal conditions. I would like to state that in the conversation that has taken place at the end of the world, governments have guided one thing that is to minimize the impact of their habitats and the payment of economic demands on the environment in Iceland. This was the overall plan of the agreement to provide them with a measure of time to provide stability and to put into practice the conditions they have been introduced into the stable tax, which releases them this underlying payment problem and enables their farms to settle against their demands. This specific bill will not be excluded from it. Although we have had the goal of seeing to solve the financial problem, at the same time we have made it clear that we are listening to the details that could make it easier to complete a contract, get it approved, and deal with these matters, since they are our common interests with them that come out of the world as soon as possible. In other words, this bill adds to the promise of the wearouts on the part of the government to do what rests within the goals we have set for ourselves, to do what we can to pay for a quick decision in all of this. It's about the vote, it's like the deduction tax thing, and there's other details on the bill. This is to simplify and speed up and make sure that these matters can run out this year. This deduction tax is certainly an exception, but it can be said that there may be no traditional and ordinary use of the stable tax and the renovation of these stretchers on a different level. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-15.u10	President. As shown in a talk at the highest. Ministers, this bill is put forth to pay for the emergency contracts. The assessment of effects is presented in the section: ▪ If the bill becomes the law, it can be assumed that the sufferers of fallen financial companies will be made easier to complete the contracts of forced agreements. This spring was discussed about these matters, stability, and it was introduced that way, if I remember correctly, and I think I will, especially by the highest degree. Prime Minister, that he spoke the most about the stable tax, which is 39% tax on the paperwork and that this was mainly a stable tax, and it was a bat we had in the air and said: "If you don't pay it back, you can walk here to the emergency contracts. They are more comfortable for us. And then people say, "There is the yellow root, the yellow root for you to finish this, and that we may begin to get out of the seas, of which we all agree." This is a time to facilitate the emergency agreements, and it may well be true, but I'd like to point out, more dignified President, that men are now calling numbers like 500 billion which will be the difference between the stability of the tax and the tax. I don't want to go into any more games with numbers until I've studied this case on the Economic and Business Committee. But it is clear that we are talking about huge sums of money. Then there are other steps we have to take. We have to enter the uncertainty. Is there a problem with the stable tax and the rest of the streets? I agree that it might well be that when you weigh it together, 500 billion people now talk about nothing and the rest are much better. But I'm going to discuss the sums of money in this discussion in another discussion. At any rate, I think it's clear that we all have to look into this matter to the bottom of our lives so that we're a little at peace with what we're doing. So here we are, making it easier for them to deal with them. Is that really what we are going to do? I'd like to take a look at the committee before I get to the bottom of it. The bill certainly raises questions. As shown in my case earlier. A minister is the expression in the report somewhat unfashionable, saying: ▪ In the presence of the representatives of the injured financial agencies, the information that has been acquired by financial institutions is explained. I'm asking, has the Ministry of finance checked out that it's like this? Do we not have to be absolutely sure that all of this government is correct? Also says: "Such responsibilities do not fall between partners, in their business they are, and there are these large companies abroad who are not going to do the work they need to do. I say not to get too big in my mouth that I think it's kind of cute. V.E.G. A minister says that he is responsible for this expression, and it may well be, but just as when we were speaking about it in our spring, I again give a very special witness in conversation with the highest degree. Then, the prime minister said: "Well, it's presented here this stable tax, 39%, but then in the background, there are contracts, saying that they had more and less been written up and made up of the largest pair of broilers. It was not to be heard at all because the men had the bat. It seems to me that they had not just one carrot but a carrot farm for the forced contract. I say again and again, Your Honorable President, that it may well be the best way. This was what I was going to say about the first thing, of the exception of the tax service. The next article will discuss the change in the dissociation of taxable persons under the law on a special tax on a financial enterprise. It seems to me that there's purity, if you don't mind me saying so. It was clear when we discussed this earlier in the year that if the bank tax failed, either a stable tax or a stable tax supply, would be used to get the bank tax, but it will not have been expected in the bank tax bill itself, so it does not seem abnormal to me. It may be always necessary to make adjustments at home and even in the hall. Then there are changes in financial law. First, these contracts are still easy to negotiate, making it easier for communication to be done even after the announcement has been made, and so on through the streets, this is easier to do. I just want to draw attention to it. Second, the time point for treatment discontinuation is clearly explained. Then it says: "As shown in the 3rd mg. However, it is expected that an emergency contract will be sought when property does not cover the demands of broken management, and it is also authorized in particular that in the bill that a contract contract is partly devoted to paying for new items in the relevant enterprise at such times. Hence, under such circumstances, the expected situation at 1 or 2 mg should not be the case. Therefore, it is essential to specifically explain that the natural wearout treatment is completed by confirmation of the contract agreement according to the rules applicable. Remuneration on the basis of a contract may take some time, and it is not necessary to care for them in other ways but to result from a legal obligation. I think it's something that came out and it's made a claim or will of the wornout regimes that are expected to have had enough of this job and want to get out of it as soon as possible, so it's taken into account. 3rd, a change in the 12th word is proposed. 3 mg 103. g. a The law says the percentage of agreements by sums. In this I was asking the Minister why it really was. I must admit that I was little closer after his explanation. I do not blame him because the time is short to explain such matters. I'll ask for more information on the committee. Then here comes one more trip: After we accepted the law, which we agreed on in spring, the tip was received that the above-mentioned roof may be too high on the unprecedented number of demands again appears to be as the great demands of the crew, saying, "This is not going to work, we need to have it better. And then this is it: In view of the rich national interests involved in the disintegrating of financial institutions it is thought that it would be necessary to reduce to 85%. This may well be, but what I'm most concerned with is in 1st. The point is that these contracts are always being helped. The laws that were accepted were two kinds, were about the stability tax, and were about the stability process. V.E.G. The prime minister was absolutely determined that it was the stable tax that was the main factor in the bill and the second one was that, that was, I think, a carrot. I feel we have to, and everyone, to make us understand exactly what this is all about. That's not a big thing, and it seems fair to everyone to be absolutely convinced that this way, the silent agreements, is the best. But don't we have to be 100% sure of what we're doing? You're talking about 500 billion. We've talked about and excited ourselves here in this hall because of a small amount, a lot less money. That's what I might want to draw attention to, but then I'll hold this more detailed speech when I get all the information and explanations from the committee I think I need. That's what I've done, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-15.u11	Mr. President. Because of the rest of the assembly, I did not hear the first part of my talk. But the latter part was very clear, and it clearly understands the nature of this bill. But I would like to ask. A senator of conscience questions. She's been sitting here for a few years at a council, has she ever seen a show of songs based on rumors or gossip? I refer to the fact that there is a suggestion that slaves who receive money in interest of interest will be withheld from deduction tax. And why is that? Yes, that is why, as stated on page 18. 3 In the report, that the representatives of the tenants of the fallen financial companies have been received to the ears that the largest government in the area of bond bonds will not receive bonds if they are charged with deduction taxes due to interest here. In other words, there is nothing available to write about the Ministry of finance. V.E.G. The secretary of finance has no record of this, but someone has told him over a desk that these were made to the ear by agents of the broilers. I've never seen a suggestion based on rumor based on a song in my life in my life. I'm asking why. A senator: Has she ever seen a bill like this? Does she think she's my agent and Icelander's partner in accepting a bill based on the same color information as this? I don't remember what. A senator's insistence on seeing some evidence that is behind him? I challenge it. A senator, who is now my rising star, is joining me and others who prevent it, from the nature of the case, that such cunning in legalization will be tolerated while both of us are about reasonably warm in political terms.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-15.u12	A respectable president. Hv. A senator came too late, as he himself says, he did not hear my answer or the beginning of my talk in which I covered it. I put it that way -- I'm not as eloquent as a man. A senator so that I might have been a little on the lower level. I was amazed that it was just a word from the people who have the greatest interest in it to be accepted by the bill. V.E.G. In effect, a minister said that he was responsible for the wording. He might have, I completely agree with my platoon brother. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson, should be more careful when writing this down. Of course, we need to take care of what it was. I completely agree with that. I have declared that I will use the exact time we have on the committee to review this. This is typical, and every case has to be reviewed in committees, but my opinion raises a lot of questions, and especially what words are used in the report, since it appears in other places in the report that I have heard or received suggestions about something; I don't know where they came from. Of course, we need to get an explanation and look into all of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-15.u13	Mr. President. I'm just saying thank God. Hv. A senator fully meets my expectations. In my brief answer earlier, I realized that I had failed as a result of duty at the beginning of the discussion. This particular point has to do with the bill's main ingredient and it's completely insane to the highest level. A financial minister can offer us to change this specific provision in order to help them obtain more of their demands and to provide no evidence for the council to support it. He must have heard it. Somebody's said it to him. This is no way to make laws in the High Council. I couldn't agree more. A senator that doesn't work out, I thank her for the clear statement that she's going to be driving to get some information that's behind this. If they're not, it's totally spontaneous. Besides, I don't think it's our special duty at the Council to go forward in this way so as to make it easier for demands to meet deadlines so that we can slip past the stable tax. I don't care if they don't finish their business in time instead of getting this bypass made by the government at the last minute and forgot to tell the council and forget to tell the nation when they informed them of the subject at the famous Hauppe meetings, I don't care that it will lead to their failure to get their way through this bypass. It just means that the stable tax is the highest. A government says that it will pass all international commitments will take us instead of 330 billion possibly 663. And there's a considerable difference. It's probably the biggest tax appeal or tax reduction known to date, but it's not regular Icelanders who get it, no, it's demands. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-15.u14	You're absolutely right. A senator, President, this is the biggest case we'll ever discuss in this terms. That's what we said back in spring when we discussed the big bill, they said it's the biggest thing in the world. Now coming in here a little bill that doesn't pay much attention and it just seems like it's a comfort. I thought it was when I first read it that it was probably what I had to do. However, when I read it again, I saw the need for us to examine this carefully. We need to examine this very carefully, for, like the highest. The minister said he was back before what. paritaprevir As in Helgadóttir, this tax deduction is just a little bit small in all these discussions, but it doesn't make any difference that we need to examine all of this down to the basement and be absolutely sure what we're doing. That's my answer to why. paritaprevir My beloved Össur Skarphéðinsson, and I hope that I will not fail him in this matter rather than in others.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-15.u15	A respectable president. First, I want to review what's positive in this bill, and I think it's important to be good at it, and there are, of course, changes that could be aimed at making short-term contracts. We've done so many times with legislation, first in my time as economic and business ministers, and again, of course, with the big changes here in spring, and naturally that we'll continue to pay for it. I agree with what. Councilmen here have expressed some amazement at the way this new arrangement is set out to keep out the bonds published by the fallen financial companies from deduction tax. It is right to review only materially what this means. We have double tax agreements with all major business states, so demands, whether American, Canadian, or European, do not have to pay this tax and enjoy it in the power of double tax agreements. On the other hand, those who have to pay such taxes, such as in segregation, in Tortols, in the British Virgin Islands, and in the tax Paradise in the Caribbean. So you must ask yourself: " Is this really a trick among the demands? Experts believe that the group is now getting out of this exchange, according to the recent analysis of the nuclei, more than what has been expected in the business of demand over the past few years. This may include the Icelandic buyers with their societies and that they are now being paid their dues. So you ask yourself, " Is this change primarily designed to make it easier for such partners to gain a profit from these letters? ' I encourage the committee to review this because I am no better than all those who have a tax obligation in decent, moral states around us do not have to pay taxes like this than the tax obligation to fall upon those in Tortol and British Virgins and such places. In any case, it is perfectly normal for the committee to review whether any Icelandic bonds of debt are included in foreign accounting centers unless they are excluded from this obligation. A respectable president. It is inevitable when you consider this subject and the development of the prehistoric process. V.E.G. The secretary of finance earlier said that he did not want to approach this matter as a revenue or from points of view as the State's revenue and what could be brought up from this operation in government. I agree with that, but there's been another way that the government has been uplifted. Before the last election, we traced to the details that were then part of the government how we would imagine doing things with foreign demands. It was with contracts, and we named space to 300 billion. It was then the position of the head of the government, the Contestant Party, that it broke down near treason. V.E.G. In fact, agricultural and marine economists even called it a treason in a famous article about the Passover of 2013. V.E.G. The prime minister said that with his unique mixture of bats and carrots, he would provide space of 800 billion in the state's funds. V.E.G. The government was not finished, for when the Waffle Summit was held in spring, and the stable tax was introduced, it continued to produce the image of huge revenues that would be of this in a government fund. V.E.G. The secretary of finance who now tells us that he does not want to approach this matter on the grounds of the government funds, however, had the highest power. A prime minister standing in front of a sign on the figure of 1,200 in the size of their companions, though they are not small. 1,200 stood behind them. It was part of both of them that if a stable tax was collected, the overall benefits could be 1,200 billion. Then the figure was applied to 800, including the same large letters. Like what? paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson was doing well earlier, and neither of these gentlemen had yet to present themselves as a nation nor a council, at the point where there was a completely different plan. As a result, the bill was presented, and according to some committee reviews, the tax would understand 682 billion, while most indicated that stability would be considerably less. When you see what is happening today in view of what news has been coming out of the broil farms, it is nearly as if the stability progress is going to be anywhere in the range of 3,300350 billion. In other words, the government that said that this would be given to a wealth of 1,200 billion would have the way of making it possible for the demands to drop out a quarter of that money. The country's legislation has been approved on a stable tax that will remain to yield 682 billion, which is to be given half a discount from that law. No matter how you turn this issue around, it wasn't us in the government opposition that came up with this case from what it might turn into a state fund, it was these fine gentlemen who set themselves up in front of the number 1,200 billion. No one asked them to do that. They are now giving foreign claimors - sorry, I didn't mean to tell foreignmen, they're not certain to be foreign; they may also be their best friends with their African communities in Tortothians and British Virgins, as the tax law now suggests that they may be somewhat involved. They are giving them a discount that is either half as compared to the bill, or 75% off as compared with what they were putting themselves in front of them. It is absolutely unprecedented that, by the side of valid tax laws, there is a contract problem created on the part of the state to free in such a vast way from taxes. All of this is based on stability conditions not publicized. In our comments in the smaller part of the Economic and Business Committee this spring, we woke up why. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon noticed that there was good reason for these stability conditions to become brighter, and something would be revealed on the basis of a decision about this anomaly and, in fact, an arrangement made by tax law. It is very specific, based on the Constitution's principle, that taxes will be imposed only by law that taxes can be negotiated and that such a huge tax discount on grounds as target authorities are not revealed. The secret bank is a government in the charge of currency bills, and the criteria for the discount are not light, not transparent. I notice that Invenge has made comments on this and I think there's every reason why a financial and business committee should be very careful over all of them. Is it reasonable for such decisions to be made because what has been mentioned is true, that there is only one silver bullet in the gun? Is it proper to make decisions like this without being publicly exposed to all the details when the underlying factors arise? I think it's up to the government that set himself up to 1,200 billion a few months ago to explain why the total total number of 300 to350 billion is satisfactory. V.E.G. Secretary of the budget and the highest. Prime Minister owes us the answer to why their contract with foreign demands is satisfactory in the light of all circumstances. I remind them of the nuclear medicine analysis, suggesting that the results of these findings are at least a pair, and even beyond what the demands of the crew have likely been taken into account in recent years. It is of great interest if all the campaigns of the present government against the demands have been accomplished only in the fact that they receive more room than they expected all the time. So it has to be said that this is one of the biggest fishing missions since the government in Iceland. I encourage the Commission to oversee all aspects of these matters very carefully and to consider especially whether it is not a reason to better reveal the stability conditions that are the basis for this unprecedented tax oath that the government is going to grant to foreign demands rather than to the general Icelanders, just foreign demands.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-15.u16	Mr. President. I don't really know exactly where to begin with this speech. I guess it's nice to start off with a lie. A senator said that there would be 1,200 billion in federal funds. That's not true. What was discussed in connection with the overall measure of the operation was the effect of the operation, what we were dealing with. It was about how large the subject is, how high the demands are in Icelandic dollars, how much we have to deal with in order to neutralize broken surfaces to the balance of payment. This is done in various ways, i.e., by the stability process. if, by direct donations, the stability process is carried out, by extension, and by other measures. The tax is a means of making a clear response to the same opinions as it does at the end of this year, the taxation falls on the worn - out surfaces, the properties of which are available, and the taxprofen, so that all that has been said is true of the total financial value that could exist. Otherwise, it is wrong. It is wrong that the promise was made that all of this would come back to a treasure. When it comes to saying that the government, the one standing, the prime minister, or other ministers, has made a subject of what might become a trust fund because of these actions, so when asked, it is answered. When it comes to paying taxes, it is only natural to answer what is expected of him, and it really goes the same way about the stability process. None of these changes, however, that there is an end point to our actions that the project is putting our economic system to safety and at the same time enables the reefers to become demands. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-15.u17	A respectable president. The fundamental question that remains to be answered is: Is the discount justified? I agree with the highest. Under the conditions set down in spring, the minister of the law of the law as it stands will yield 682 billion into the state's budget. What is left is this: Where are the physical diagnosiss justified in paying such a discount on the tax? It's very interesting and interesting to hear the highest news. The tutor's secretary for finance. The prime minister, in effect, said that this was always a matter of making use of the available space. That was naturally what we in the United States put together before the last election and described in detail the space we had and how we wanted to make full use of it. It is interesting to hear that this is about the highest. The secretary of finance suggests and speaks, but he still has to explain to all of us why he should compromise from a tax that he considers taxable to 682 billion, and he has to give half of the tax to the foreign demands. For this to be possible, I think the need to publish publicly and to give a thorough argument why such is justified must be clear. Therefore, I urge this to be done very carefully to the economic and business committees and Ingeence's comments taken very seriously, because if this government is going to give the foreign claimors 50% a discount of taxes, much more money than ever has ever gone to the nation's creditors, it is reasonable to understand, explain and reason.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-15.u18	President. I have to say, I don't think it's an introduction on a high level. The last person to speak in this country just wanted to pay hundreds of billions of dollars in the first Icesave case. It was prevented. When we arrive in the government, it is claimed here that there have been some developed ideas. The fact is, they did not know where or where they were going to go in this matter. There were no plans, there had been no introduction, no tax nor stability conditions of any kind. The United States was in a state of affairs in a state of constant agreement from 2007 to 2012, and I don't know that there has ever been a clear statement on how to solve this matter, except a general word. Why didn't people use the last terms if it was so obvious how to do this? They even knew before the election exactly how to do this. Was it not possible for humans to receive an exception from the goats for the entire last season - but never to receive it? Wasn't it completely unsolved? It has taken a long time for the government to continue working on this case so that people can see the bottom of this barrel and they could identify all the power sources on the crown's gang if the stocks are built up and how great the debrider is. We have a comprehensive program that will solve this issue. It has been well accepted that the government's credit ratings and key companies in the country have increased, and this has been strengthened since the introduction of the plan. Then we talk about it like we're actually talking about giving some discount. A discount of what? This is a complete operation that allows you to go through a year's time from the development of stretchers and pay hundreds of billions of dollars to be neutralized, or you will be in the tax. The tax will answer other questions that we will then face if we do not have finished our business. This in itself is the same discussion we took last spring. If people want to set it up like this, that someone's doing something for them, I think they should read it a little bit more. [[The president calls.]] In my opinion, people are completely mistaken if they think the actions involved here are expedient to the demands. That's the other way around, isn't it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-15.u19	A respectable president. It's interesting to hear the highest. Secretary of finance avoids the big question, which is the difference between 682 billion and these 300. He says that these measures will be sufficient to neutralize - yes, but does he not want to back us up? There's the knife in the cow. Is that not necessary? You see, when it comes to declarations, there is no stone on a stone, and now I have to make the most of it. Secretary of finance that grade, especially the forward party declarations and the highest. Prime Minister on these matters over the past few years. All the pronouncements that he was going to act against demands so that they were harmed when it turns out that the demands of the sea will remain unsettled, but they even calculated in their own free business. The man who said that these men benefited so much from buying discounts is now giving them money, more than they calculated. A respectable president. It is quite simply this way, to recall what was said for the last election, that on a TV show where I was sitting with the highest. The secretary of finance a few days before the election, I described in detail this amount of space, how we agreed to do it by contracts, and it is simply false that he came to an empty table in the Ministry of finance in this regard. I don't think he's the kind of man who tries to pretend that he's been on a lot of research for the past few years, when it turns out that all he's been doing is getting his head in. Prime Minister in the case and get him down to the ground and cut him out of his unrealistic statements. Of course, the fact remains. The prime minister and the government owe a reason why this stable tax is not being fully collected. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-15.u20	Madam President. I think it's pretty black for the highest. Secretary of finance when he insists that there were no future gifts to discuss with the demands. One of the principal financial journalists of the Icelandic press class, Þorbjörn of Þórðarson, wrote a special fistula about it in the market section of the newspaper that when the result of a stable tax was replaced, demands would have gone mad with joy. A news reporter used this wording with joy. Then, in the same fist, he wondered what would happen to what he called the elegance of demanding workers. He answered that question with a different question: Could it be that the government has made its own arrangements? I'm not gonna say that. On the other hand, I'm going to say that I feel the highest. Minister, if he wants to discuss these items objectively, he cannot rewrite the story in this way. He cannot argue that it was not a completely different way for demandsmen than the one he studied with me and other Icelanders on the air from the Harpa. It was the highest. Secretary of finance, in all his power, spoke of a stable tax that should be about 39%. He tricked me and others because I immediately said, "There's something I can short. " I felt that this was in harmony with what men had previously prepared. V.E.G. Secretary of finance reviewed the last term and said that this was a government under the head of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir. True, he said from 2007 to 2007, so good it was not. Two years our fine companion, Geir H. Haarde, was prime minister. It is true, however, that in 2009 and in 2009, there was a government under Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir. It may be that it is finally happening to the Icelandic nation what achievement that government accomplished to clear up the enormously difficult situation that the government took up. I'll remember it for the highest. Secretary of finance, because I know that he is a reasonable man and wants to have the right of things, that the Icelandic nation has recently expressed its view that the prime minister of that government, Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, is not just the most popular but the most popular prime minister in the Republic of Germany. I don't want to do the highest. Ministers of reviewing where the former leader of his life was in that order and not at all where the present is, but I am sure that he would have been happy if the two had come close to the favor and merits that the prime minister of the government seems to enjoy in the Icelandic nation. The fact is, they won, like all the governments here, from the failure of the bank, a good job. All that is lacking, however, is that humans face up to it. In return, I find some ministers present at the highest level. Governments use every opportunity to slander that government. They should recognize that part of today's success in Icelandic society is that the government did not just do its work with the best of ability but was just as the government of Geir H. Haardes before meetings in the right direction. I'm going to insist that the Geir H. Haardes, the two governments of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir and the present government of Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunugsson all did a good work to achieve a trick in Icelandic society. I also think, as I have said before, that it may praise the highest. Secretary of finance for many things he's done. It seems to me that by the time he's finished, he's both doing his job and learning from his experience. Much of what he does in the form of a song aims to prevent a similar sequence of events that was here 2008 can repeat itself. He is to be commended for this, just as I commend previous prime ministers and their governments because they have shared the toll on the egg. Only about the story, too. V.E.G. The prime minister was in a dart attack at the chairman of the United States and asked: "How did it come about that the previous government had not finished this case? First, it was only at the end of the terms of the problem that had been covered by people's ability to map the landscapes. That knows the highest. Secretary of the budget very well. At the end of that election period, negotiations with the demands would have been possible, including Because a part of the current government stand had made a dump in this way. I do not hesitate to say that there is a considerable advancement there in the credit section, since the demands had begun to tremble in the knees and to be ready to negotiate. But when then the minister of finance, Katrín Júlíusdóttir, wanted to file a case like one of her interviews in the business magazine early in April, it was clear that it was impossible to do so without a transverse consent. Who, then, ran away from signs? The current chairman and vice president of the Future Party, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson and Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, at present. Ministers, said no, intended to take care of themselves. Why? They wanted to go another way. It was that way. paritaprevir In his excellent speech before and at the highest, Árnason's service here referred to the service of the aged. A young child was prevented by a financial minister. The way that came to the top was the right one. That is why the government was on the side of the government when this matter was settled in our midst. Almost every member of the government was on the side of the government because such key issues that are key to the restoration need to establish a parapolitic solidarity. It can't give the highest. One government's open check is that the government's government supports anything. I'm gonna let me claim it to the highest level. The government hasn't completely come to the door when it releases us. Of course, I refer to the meeting in Harpa. I watched it, rejoiced in my heart, and did not understand only half of the 88 transparencys that were exposed to it, but I know that no cornea, because it was passed over, the word for stability was mentioned. It was just about the stable tax. You're absolutely right by the Topv. The secretary of finance not to refer to what would be needed in the Icelandic estate or in the financial capacity, but it was clearly stated that 300 billion of it were in the so - called scaffolds. However, the figure that remained was exactly the same as the head of the advance party was launched in a famous speech at the forward party convention. It referred to hundreds of billions of people who would be killed by Icelandic taxpayers, i.e. State funds, and as the candidates went about what was being said about them, the figure came up 850 billion, so that there are absolutely clear facts. Now it is that I as a member of the administrative body and completely irresponsible of administrative activities, as the president still has to make decisions on the best of the nation. I have a choice to support the way the government has now gone and, in fact, introduced on the same day that she had given her big speeches in Harpa. That is the way I have allowed myself to call a bypass, which includes the fact that the worn - out persons can, in effect, escape from stable taxes if they meet certain conditions that include their being angry at specific property. What then goes into the lap of the Icelandic community, whether it be called foam, or something else, would be in the direction of the stability proposals of some 330 billion. At least there are the numbers now available. But if the stability tax had gone, there would be much more. Bride 850 minus discount for 160 billion. It is some 663 billion. In other words, it's a double difference. I trust the highest. Secretary of finance. He knows how to calculate, and he's told me here that the stable tax is wet, but it takes more time than it's potty. At the very least, I'd like to have space to decide which is better for the Icelandic community to go on the stable process or the stable tax process. I have to say it just as it is, there's a way to get ready to go. They will need to complete certain aspects of their time. If they don't - time limit is next year - they'll fail the stable tax. If that is the case, what danger is there for Icelandic society? It may take a little longer to cut currency heads. I've never been explained. Maybe it's the highest. The secretary of finance explains this to me in the following talk. He's an intelligent man, and I usually understand what he's saying. It's two ways. I'm not sure that the stability process is the best, but I am convinced that it is, and I agree that both of them involve neutrality in financial stability. That's enough for me. So why go to deliver what I have called the Sigmund gift, which is according to this calculation of some 330 billion? Why? It's good to remember here just because it's the highest. The minister of finance was overly distressed in this regard. This suggests that Icesave 2 would have involved the cost of 67 billion for the Icelandic national preparations. 21 or 22 of this was paid from the deposit fund of the depositors. That would be at the end of the 40,445 billion that the cost would have been. As a result, they wanted to go that way, 40% of those who went to a national law. Among those who wanted to go that way was the highest. Secretary of finance. What, then, were his arguments? Yes, it did cost something, but we'd have to cut the currency in a much faster way. He was absolutely right because the currency system has been estimated to cost 80 billion a year. Today, at least some of those who recommend a stable process rather than the tax line use the very same argument: We need to lift the currency heads faster. This may be a arithmetic, but it is certain that they will have to pay for that speed of approximately 10 times higher, but they would have had to pay to rush to Icesave 2. It's good to keep this in mind. With this bill, I'm completely aware of what's going on at the highest level. Secretary of finance. He wants to make sure that the fragments can be arranged in a way laid down in the so - called bypass, by law that we agreed on in spring before January 1. I have doubts that it is my job to accept a law that directly helps them to do so. There's a particular point where people have put the hook in. It means that this is a suggestion for demands to be granted as a result of a so - called deduction tax which should be maintained because of the interest paid by interest - bearing bonds. Why at the International Parliament to help them take advantage of the stability process instead of taking the other ways that will result in a much greater payment on the Icelanders if both routes arise with financial neutrality regarding the stability of Iceland? Why? I can't see the evidence for it, even less, once it's been informed here and the highest. Secretary of finance has not turned down the argument, that due to double tax agreements, crews who have their home in the United States and Europe will not need this. This is for the Tollis team. This is for those who have money in taxes. Should we help them? I find that very difficult. Madam President. Besides what I know has already been found at the highest. Minister - how does he think of all the political experiences he has to make with this law and literally say that this proposal is based on rumors or stories? It is reported in the report that according to the representatives of the fact that participants have fallen into financial companies, they have heard that the companies that are infested with bonds will not be able to handle them. [[The president calls.]] How can such a procedure be offered? [[The president calls.]] My time will not allow me to comment on this matter on any further reproof, but it is not a government for which to cry out. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-15.u21	Madam President. It's been a great talk here, and it's turned largely into laws that have already been set and, of course, relate to the bill we're discussing here. Yet, the points of the matter before the council, and we are on the program, perhaps having a secondary role in the discussion. It's okay with me. This has to do with the major case, which is under suspension, and how we plan to advance the government plan for execution. I'm going to start by saying, because there's been a lot of talk about the stability process, that it's an unbreakable part of the plan. The interaction between the stability initiative and the stabilisation tax is important, as it can be legally relevant to demonstrate that a moderate extension has been performed on the issues to ensure the objectives of the underlying ones, i.e. to eliminate the oceans, and to some extent, the stability project ensures specifically to show that a moderate measure of care was taken, that other means were available to ensure the removal of the payable problem. All our actions are about destroying the pay - level problem. However, there is an apparent economic connection between the stable tax and the stability of the tax just for this reason, looking at the level of the effect. The stability effort to maintain the level of payment may be the result of debt, and this may be a combination of several measures. It has been discussed that the conditions that need to be met are not clear enough, but I disagree with them. In itself, these are relatively simple conditions. For one thing, the worn - out team must show that measures have been taken to reduce the impact of the money funded in Icelandic kronos. Second, other domestic holdings of fallen financial companies in foreign currency will be turned into long - term financial resources to the extent necessary; these are the prolongation of these losses. Third, in the case of such a situation, the payment of the government's loans in foreign currency paid to the new banks following financial failures will be reimbursed. It's a stable production, it's an extension, and it's a reimbursement, and it's a combination of these three that the worn-offs have been working on to meet the stability conditions; direct contributions, extensions, and reimburses; reimbursement of foreign currency as a result of payment to the new bank. To prepare these bacteria, there is an underlying financial exchange of new banks at the ready. These are the letters that are discussed in connection with the taxation interest from bonds. This is a letter that will be published in your personal name as part of a contract with the demands. This has, in this context, a connection to the stability conditions. This is, in fact, the manner in which a person prepares for the preparation of a fixed contract before it is finally determined in what percentages of direct contributions, extensions, and remunerations are in place, and shows that he has an equal share prepared for the resolution. I believe that when men consider this in this context - i.e. that this is a preparatory procedure to show that humans can meet the stabilisation conditions - that is what we are discussing here, i.e. The taxation on that version of bond, like a few grains of sand on a big beach. It's not a big deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-15.u22	No doubt about...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-15.u23	This has been the subject of saying that there is a discount and there is a favor for demands, etc. But they do not realize that the less the situation is being done, the more it would have had to be done in some other place. It's all holding hands. Paybacks, extensions, and direct stability, ultimately all go hand in hand. What is being done in a material way is that it is being made possible to cope with the conditions. It is being embalmed to meet the stabilisation conditions. There is no discount on the stability criteria, on the contrary. They're holding tight under those conditions. Then it's about all this money -- actually, I think we have a few months ago, or we counted, at least in terms of the main points of this discussion. But it has been ever since we introduced these actions, that there could be several hundred billion people involved. Now people say: There are only 300 billion. Let us see when all the gravel is buried, where the direct forward will be in order to meet the requirements. I don't think it's time to read it out. I don't think that all of that has been fulfilled in a public discussion of accurate sums in that context. This will happen in a way that will be reviewed by a financial and business committee. In the event that they can accept these conditions, there will be a special presentation for the Economic and Business Committee, where we can take a closer look at the figures in this context. May I also remind you that we have this year, or in recent years, been taking a substantial amount of bank tax from the fragments that come to the recovery of the problem below. We enlarged the bank tax, which yields nearly 40 billion a year. According to this bill, if prepared, it will collapse. So we're always talking about a stability project to a minimum of 300 billion; it could be considerably higher, but let's just wait to tell us exactly what that will be. This includes the sizes associated with the bank tax, which has already been collected and has reduced the problem. Then we're talking about prolongation. We're talking about those parties tying in longer-term holdings here within the country. In a way, it can be said that by making conditions for them, we are asking that, rather than being allowed to float out of the economy to the demands -- as the demands would naturally be able to do, to pay out -- we are saying: "No, this cannot be allowed to flow out of the country, but if it is extended enough in these assets, so that it is compatible with stability here in the streets, the worn-out conditions can be extended by lengthy. Here we could be talking about the sums, and we're talking about the hundreds of billions of dollars running. We're actually talking about how we're asking people to invest in the Icelandic economy hundreds of billions for the next year; this is beyond the direct process. Then we're finally talking about recovery from funding on the domestic banking system, which is the payback that comes back. The amount is in the range of some 50 to 1,5100 billion. When it's all put together, people will finally see the overall stake of what we're talking about. When we're talking about the direct stability process, investments of hundreds of billions, which we call prolonging commitments within the financial system, and then recovery from foreign payment, we're not talking about the rights of about 300 billion. We're talking about considerably higher money. But I can say that this conversation - this explanation, this guidance that has occurred on the basis of the stability conditions I traced earlier - has been alive in the past few weeks and months since the introduction of the procedure. There are meetings, and there are communications every day on these matters. We've had the projection team taken an active part recently to coordinate and ensure a good conversation between recruitment and the Sea Bank, all the people involved in these matters, and that work is very far away. This should not surprise anyone, for it is clear to everyone that every deadlines that have broken - up to escape the tax will soon begin to expire if this is to happen before the end of the year. As a result, they first need to show how they are going to meet the requirements, get green light, and then have a special meeting, and then they're going to have a national hearing and they're going to have forced agreements confirmed. It all takes time, and, as you know, it has to be done on the basis of the laws before the year when people will prove that they met the requirements of being free from the tax. The tax, because it has been mentioned considerably, is a perfectly valid way to solve this problem. He is in a very strict way, not a very flexible way. I think the tax will pass all the time, but I think it will help the tax, and I think it will strengthen the tax, that the stability process is at the same time. If we can agree that both lead to the underlying problem that has been maintained since 2008, we should not have to discuss the difference between the two paths above the other dollars. If we are going to take the discussion on that basis, we will either disagree that this is not a business of income - my belief is that it will never be possible to continue running this case based on the fact that it is of utmost importance to the State. It would subside the legal status of the stable tax that only income therapy is involved, that it had nothing to do in itself, or that the financial problems - or that we do not agree that the right conditions to support this legal foundation of the tax are the basis. It's my opinion, it's our opinion of experts, and it's the result of all the work that has taken place in the past few years, that the whole operation is stronger, better understood the goals we are going to, is a moderate factor that the conditions provide. I believe that this combination of action was so successful - it's quite complex, but it's very important - that is, in fact, the main reason that the state and certain key companies in this country have already received improved credit ratings. It's this interaction. That is the complete basis and well - thought - out of the procedure. [[The president calls.]] It is important that the bill we have discussed here today be treated quickly at the council in order to help us understand whether we are going to follow this path or anything else.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-15.u24	Madam President. I'm getting a little chilly. I'm sure that's what I'm gonna do. paritaprevir Frosti, the son of Sigurjónsson, also runs cold water between skin and skin when he hears the highest. Secretary of finance speaks of the living conversation between the government and the demands. As it looks from my viewpoint, it was that at the time the nation was about to finish and introduce the way of the stable tax, there was also a living conversation with the demands that no one knew about, but the highest. The minister of finance was good enough to report here in answer to his debate on the stable tax. All right. I understand the reasoning of a moderate in nature. I believe they are important, and this was primarily the reason why the government gave the government the strength involved in the transnational support of the bill here in spring. It is far more difficult for the demands to go on some sort of legal expedition if such a course has been offered. But the highest. The minister of finance was just about to repeat again that the tax route was a valid route. It is even more valid after an alternative route of conversation that has resulted in a living conversation with the demands. What the demanding men wanted, they received. Should we give them more? If this is as valid a way as it is, in the end it will result in a substantial amount of money, even if it is at its highest level. Secretary of finance has previously said that no use can be made, at least Not now, why hasn't that way gone? And I'd love to go to the highest. The secretary of finance answered the danger. Is there a danger that we would not have received a raise in credit? [[The president calls.]] Is the danger that it will take longer to cancel the currency capital? These are konsical questions that will help to explain the background of the selection of this route.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-15.u25	Madam President. There are no contracts going on.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-15.u26	Live conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-15.u27	However, when it comes to a bill for a short contract and to advised in the first way that a person is going to achieve stability, second, to extend a commitment that has been valid here on the domestics, and third, to repay money, when it is being developed in detail, there are a number of opinions. There are expectations that this might be a little more than that of the others. It calls for a body unit provided by the Navy, but there is never any agreement about the fundamentals I've been doing here which are the basis for the stability conditions, much less giving a discount of the tax or the goals we've set for ourselves. Then it is so that if a person means something by supporting the stability process, if he means something by believing that it is an important part of the overall operation, the stability progress is shown by average care, and means something by believing that it can even affect the value of the tax, they must also provide the solution if the conditions are met. If they come to the government and the Federal Bank with suggestions that completely fit into the stability conditions but that is to be said no, they do not mean anything by what they say.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-15.u28	Madam President. If the highest. The minister means that the road to stability is valid, and it stands up to all the courts, and to all the international commitments we have, and when you remember that we have a live conversation, we have a joint result with demands - which they were so glad they were so happy that many journalists spoke of their failures - why do we have them over and over after the living conversation. Will the secretary of finance to the requirement have to change even the laws we were suing last year? I can't quite see the pain in this, except for the highest. A minister can give me some proof that this will lead to something harmful or negative for Icelanders. So I asked him earlier if this could have some effect on credit ratings or on something else. I'm telling you, I'm telling you, I'm telling you, I'm being honest with you and I'm the best. Minister only has to respect it for me, he's not guilty of it, but here's a government made up of people who've fought the government, at least Part of it, for wanting to negotiate with the demandsor and for itself, is in agreement with the demands she says are not negotiations but only a living conversation. I wonder, then, " How does the world turn to such men? ' And the highest. Minister has to respect it to me that I'm taking this up here just a little bit, especially when he says both roads are valid. Then at the end, it's the highest. The minister of the strange thing is that Invenge and possibly Frosti Sigurjónsson, president of the Economic and Business Committee, or I, would like to see the stability conditions for each particular branch, e.g. the prolongation? They matter for financial stability to the future. Why is that a secret? And then I'm complaining a little, why are we just showing it to the Economic and Business Committee? Why can't men like me who have had a live interest in this matter ever since that information became available as well? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-15.u29	Madam President. I don't know if I can explain this better than I've tried to do here, but this is like this: we have a whole plan. She's assuming that if you don't meet the stability conditions, you get the tax. This means that if a person meets the stabilisation conditions, he can get a solution, and he can pay for the demands because he has an equal share of the broken - ups. [[Up front.]] On the other hand, if you think, and I hear what you're saying. A senator is very close to that view, if he is not completely aware that it is the best way for everyone to go only the tax way, one must reject the conditions for stability. But you can't say: The stability conditions are good, but even if humans fulfill them, we're going to say no because we prefer the tax. It's not like that. It is impossible to adjust its course in these matters after practicality, depending on whether or not more dollars are calculated in the state's budget, depending on which way further charges are calculated in the state's budget. If I were to think that it was best just to solve the IRS and there was no other option, I would have recommended such a bill during spring, and we would never have talked about the stability project. I have reasoned that the stability process solves the underlying problem, as well as the tax, and that's our primary role. I also have evidence that the stability of the tax is supported by the legal support of its stable tax. Then it will be presented to the council, to the Economic and Business Committee, by law in the event of the establishment of broken-down ideas of a labour agreement and a stable process. There will be no discount for the goals that are so repeated in our discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-15.u30	Madam President. I have listened attentively to the transmission address of the highest. Minister and then the talks of other senators who have expressed themselves on this matter. I have to say exactly as it is, I'm scared shitless, I'm gonna get to use that word, with what's being done here -- scared shitless. That's why I want to ask the highest question. Secretary of finance to do this because this is being done on the way to give a discount on capital taxes. It's explained here that information has been received from sources. In this too there is a twofold tax agreement that we have with other nations. My question that I'm going to put in this uniform if any of these requirements are in the tax industry, many of which are in the world, e.g. to Tort itself, and then my question is addressed directly to the minister of finance: Is a discount also being given to those who are in taxes?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-15.u31	Madam President. This bill I'm here measuring doesn't mean that those who want to record the debt bonds that will be published will be made into one tax law over others. I have not taken a stand on this matter, considering that some may be on some of those islands. A senator mentions. This bill simply goes on to pay for, as expected by governments, that the worn - out markets can complete a contract this year. One factor in this is tax treatment of bonds that will be made of the broils. It involves measures that will not have a major impact on financial matters, as the cost of this matter puts it. When we consider the bill in relation to our overall operation, these are relatively simple and specific measures. They are. All the factors that have been concerned can be considered in the Economic and Business Committee and call for further explanation. The Ministry will respond as possible. But on the wording referred to, I have to say, that's how I feel afterwards. I believe, however, that everyone is the purpose of light.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-15.u32	Madam President. Well, that's it. If any claimors want to file their claim to the world's tax sources, the Republic of Iceland will give them a discount on that tax. This is a bit more interesting to me, and perhaps even more remarkable, because it will be the government of Sigmundur, Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, who, rather, was about to handle the vultures' funds that carry out this work. And I will not be less anxious and anxious about the bill that has been presented here already. The secretary of finance speaks of the need to be quickly treated through the council. Drottinn, my God. No, I don't think this bill can be treated quickly through here. I'll call for what? paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Sigurvensson, chairman of the Economic and Business Committee that receives this case. I find it very strange that he does not come into this discussion and express his feelings and let us hear his viewpoint on this matter because we need to weigh it. At least the bill is being moved here. A respectable president. The stable tax was first declared to be 39%, and later came the much lower stability. It has been said here that the stability rate is 3,300,350 billion. but IRS has been up to 850 billion. If you look at what was on the big tent, which was behind prime minister and finance minister at the Wallea meeting when it was presented, the discount may be much greater. You see, I said that to a vote at the 3rd. The case, when I was about to be replaced by two masks about what was going on, was defined by this definition of the debt corrected government of Sigmundur, the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson Gunoug, whom he won elections at his last election, which was supposed to be for his country's homes. [[The president calls.]] The correction should be made by a foreign vulture fund. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-15.u33	Madam President. It's an excellent attempt to get out of this matter, but I think it's gonna fail if I say it exactly as it is. This is not a matter of our being here recommending some of the specific requirements for the demands or making them different depending on where they registered their home. This issue is about completing action that will either bring over over 700 billion dollars in direct tax or stability, which will first provide hundreds of billions of dollars in direct contribution, hundreds of billions in direct investment into the country, prolonging existing commitments and third, of which will be reimbursed by the government for the restoration of the banking system. That is what these issues are all about, saying either eventually we get the opportunity to get rid of our capital capitals and a huge amount of tax pay or stable money. If you want to change this issue to the point that it's all about some discount, you just get the wrong side of things from my point of view.
