ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u1	No matter the 4th mg. 10th par. A convergence, over the length of a conference, suggests that a meeting meeting can last longer than what the Senate puts on it. - Do they want a vote on this President's proposal? If not, it is approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u2	A respectable president. When the country is on fire in a labour market and society is characterized by division, the administrative sector here has decided to put aside all the needs and good things that we can work together at the General Assembly. What for? In order to start a battle on the environment and activation initiatives against a frame plan that we all met during our last terms.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u3	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u4	I'm sorry, Mr President, that the government has no understanding of its leading role in the community, of the united force needed in political leadership of the country, and that it is not to direct the council's activities to the honors and vital biographies of its homes in the country that burn in tens of thousands of Iceland. She is going to put her political whims and a desire for war - torn decisions on the program, letting everything else go away, even for the country's votes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u5	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u6	A respectable president. As noted earlier, preconceived inquiry is a historical war in the community. In addition, it became known that here a representative of the groups of government came up and offered talks, offered his perspective and his knowledge and his insight to help. There was no interest in that at the highest. The financial and economic minister and the decision made at a meeting of the council groups this morning, that instead of discussing the more serious situation that has come up and attempting to achieve some solidarity in the matter, what would we like to discuss? We'd like to discuss the more aggressive proposals of a major part of the employment committee that are falling into confusion here, inside the Senate court and outside the councilhouse because it will never -- it will never, ever be, a respectable president, peace of Jón Gunnar's breytingartillaga of framework. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u7	A respectable president. I needed to be told more than once and more than twice that the management part was going to set up this matter now when there is the greatest need for men to put together their strings and when smaller ones have cooperated, offering an act of reconciliation to cope with a very difficult job position, what is the answer? Do we control it more? It's bringing a grenade into the council, this frame plan, and throwing it into the chamber. There is not just one suggestion that has been made in a project management program, but four more, of the priming ideas that have not gone through the professional process. Is this really what this administrative issue thinks this country needs now, a discussion of one of the major issues of the day? Little wonder that this government has little or no trust in society if its time is in this way, if judgment is as repugnant as it is in this matter. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] A scandal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u8	Thank you, Mr. Honorable President. I agree with the people who have spoken here. I wondered, " What exactly does it belong to me? ' It's kind of no matter how I look at this, from my opinion of a frame plan as such, these specific activation options, or as a rhythm play on the side of the highest. Governments, I don't understand anything about this decision. It's completely unconvinced. At the same time that we face strikes, which are the most recent decades, we are going to appoint the council to discuss one of the most controversial issues in Iceland's modern political history. That's a crazier, more dignified president, that's a perfect nut. And to have no sharper nose, but this, political, or just rhythmically, no matter how you think of it, is quite different, even for the highest. Government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u9	A respectable president. The marriedness of the government, when it comes to building a community community, does not conflict with a single team. Here we arrived at the front of the government of the opposing forces, one by one, and we cooperated to resolve the unprecedented conflicts of a workforce. V.E.G. The minister of finance then went out of his way to get the front of the labor movement. Today, the government has decided to set up one of the most difficult issues in society for decades and has tried to break a reconciliation that has developed of nature's protection and use. The permanence of the government in this regard is now such that it has prevented a proposal that would have been approved here in the fall, and would have started working on, and instead it has put all this work into complete turmoil. It is entirely absurd that housing should not be covered, which is of great importance to the nation. Where are the issues involved in the removal of currency burglars, and this government is regularly excusing itself to be coming and never entering this council? [[The president calls.]] Why is it not a matter of concern to the homes of the country? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u10	A respectable president. It's time for someone to come up here and calm down. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] But I'd like to say first, when people seriously claim that during the last term there was a frame-up agreement, it is the beginning of history. [[Up front.]] I was here, don't try this. We come here and say there's so much disagreement in society, and that's why they say, when we're discussing these matters, we're throwing a grenade into the council. This is crazy. Is this the introduction to the government in making more peace in society? Is this the language people want to use to make peace with society? [[Up front.]] I'm asking, Mr. Honorable President. [[Up front.]] Today, people may have differing views on these matters. But because people are talking about the homes of the land, it really has to be a treasure creation. At the very least, it's not convincing when people come here and make sure that there's some agreement on these matters and when people talk in the way they are here. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u11	V.E.G. President. It is of interest to the government's lack of interest in searching the common ways of parapolitics to solve the pitiable conflicts now associated with the paralysis of Icelandic society, despite the marvelous promises of the government in its treaties to activate the interfaith of the nation and to counteract the divisive and suspicions that have been marked by Icelandic politics. And in order to ensure complete peace, this is the basis for a framework of the change proposals that have led 1,300 people to meet in the University State to protest these changes. It was National Protection, Iceland's Natural Protection Association, Iceland's Travel Company, Offside Tourist, Travel Club 4x4, Future Land, Samuth, and Guard the Park. So the question is, Who is the government going to show this solidarity? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u12	Madam President. On page 85 of the McKinsey report of Iceland, we talk about what needs to be done to repair the country's business environment after the collapse. It speaks of important factors such as industrial development and energy dating and the need for long - term dating that are not always traced up. While men can argue about what happened during the last term, etc. So if we're going to create a stable business environment for this industry in Iceland then there has to be a long-term policy development where everyone comes to the table, all stakeholders. This is made clear. I encourage everyone to read page 85 of the McKinsey report in Iceland. If we continue on this path, i.e. No matter what happens, we do not have the stability we need. Business life must be assured that there is some stability on this matter, and this takes a lot.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u13	A respectable president. You kind of lose your hands. Is it not to show that it is the sincere and decisive intention of the administrative element to make war, to contribute to social strife? It must be. It turns out that the debate on what to do and what to protect in Iceland is one of the most difficult things that this nation has had and has had in years. It took a very long time to design a frame around how we're going to accomplish this debate, how we're going to behave in this environment, that setting up a law on the structure. They were approved here by a accordion. Now, a larger part is going to go downhill with these laws completely, bringing an adjustment to the synonym, which involves the development of controversial activations into a novelty party. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There's nothing other than protesting it. [[The president calls.]] We will defend it, and therefore it is important to protest because there is no other way to do so in a situation where there is another single market war. What for?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u14	Madam President. It will not be said of this government that it is a challenge, for it appears to be in the gear to create war wherever it comes. We know the struggle in the workforce. Instead of trying to subtract the waves of the government, this introduction into that field, in a quarrel in the country, is to bring this warm potato into the council that is known to be opposed by an environmental organization in the country, and the opposition to the nature of the country, which has no spokesmen other than us in this room, who want to protect nature. We do not want the framework laws set up in the last terms of the term, and we agreed, but now we're going to break it up in this way and tear the benefits of the professional process they were put in and then put them through a professional committee and into the council. [[The president calls.]] No, it's amazing that this government never sees how people work with people, but it works against people. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u15	A respectable president. If the legislation on the framework is a fabrication of history, then it has been a very large conspiracy, and then there is also a document forgery in the press and elsewhere, because it has passed by. paritaprevir Guðlaugur told Þór Þórðarson son that these laws were agreed on by all paid votes. All of them, the law of law itself. So the creative structure we built around which to handle this project was adopted by all the votes of the Assembly Hall. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] A respectable president. What we are about to do here is to continue in the course of conflict over every project. Those who have the highest power to activate should also think twice about what it means when there is a conflict over every project. This means that all tools are used to delay matters. [[The president calls.]] It's just that way. That is why we set out on this expedition to work together on the projects that could be controlled so that they could succeed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u16	President. Everything can be solved if people are ready to talk. Was it tried in this case? Have people sat down here, control and control, and tried to find land when it comes to the frame that everybody knows is a very important issue? No. Were they consulted with the government on how this matter would unfold in the council? Was it possible for humans to have opinions about this? Was there a question of how we could resolve this? Was it not on the side of the government in the past that people would try to settle the conflicts in the labour market and resolve them together and create some sort of package that could be offered so that they could make concerted games? Yes, it was. Then the government will choose this game. I notice in this discussion about the President's conference board on this subject of approximately Half the management section has chosen to leave the hall rather than to have in this conversation, and the entire Ministerial class is empty as soon as this is discussed. [[The president calls.]] You don't want to take the conversation. [[The president calls.]] People always vote for the war if they're at stake.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u17	A respectable president. This is a discussion over the President's conference board, and of course it is a total abuse of him on our part to take a material discussion on this subject. I'd like to state that I don't make any comments to the President's conference board. It's a role model. I would like to encourage that, since the government opposers are truly here and saying that there was peace on these matters, just looking up the details of the activation issues during the last term. It is true that this was going on a trip long ago because the thought was that we would not have to take the discussion that we have been doing. This failed completely because of the last government's actions. Here are some men who supported the last government who say the war is always here. Have you forgotten what happened some years ago? Can you say Iresave? Is it possible to say the EU? Can we say the primals? A respectable president. It doesn't make things any better to say what happened during the last term, but it's not convincing.... [[Up front.]] They don't want me to finish the word right now, and they're getting stressed out, and I get it, you know, back in the day. Ministers in the last government, it's not easy for them to talk about reconciliation. [[The president calls.]] Indeed, it did not hover over lakes during its last terms.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u18	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir The Gullful Þórðarson may miss the point, which is, of course, that there is a debate over these subjects. That's the main point. That's why it's absurd to throw it in tomorrow's program, knowing well that there's a debate about it, has been for years, and will probably be for years when we're in the position of looking in the face of a fight. That's the whole point. That's why we're standing here for President's conference board and why we're here. There is no point in arguing that a council member agreed to have a clear process about this. If that process has to be corrected because it does not agree on what it means, good and good, it will correct it rather than do what is to be done on the part of the day. The pro board is under control. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son. But this is a discussion we'll be taking tomorrow. But we will need to take this discussion for a very long time because there is no peace with it. That is why we should be focusing on the most important problem in the workplace, which is the question of a respected president. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's supposed to be a priority. That's what we should be talking about. That's the whole point.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u19	A respectable president. Today, the independent party that spent 40% of its time in Icelandic politics is getting stuck in a quarter following. The media loses a link between the polls, every time. The government does not trust in society; the prime minister does not. I'm asking, Mr. Honorable President, is there any surprises? Here we are making comments that instead of talking about a labor market situation, there is the possibility of putting in this discussion of the greatest conflict of the day, a frame of action. Then what happens? Here comes a spokesman for divisions and strife, why. paritaprevir Guðlaugur of Þór Þórðarson, turning from all that is said here. A respectable president. Is there any surprise that the authority of this government is at a loss? [[The president calls.]] Is that surprising?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u20	Madam President. I want to continue with what I mentioned earlier, pp. 85 in the McKinsey report that talks about what needs to be done to fix the business situation in Iceland after the crash. It shows that there is a need for increased political solidarity, consultation, and cooperation on the lines that have been made elsewhere in the northern countries and that Denmark is specifically referred to, where less members of the council can refer to national legal matters, which means that they need to seek solidarity. Iceland would make a lot of money out of that. This is shown in the government covenant. This is what the government says the government is going to do, but this is not what the government is doing. The workforce is now at issue. The government has had two years to bring up some comprehensive legislation and to think more of other northern nations, how they have been able to maintain a better partnership in the labour market. It's not here yet. And now the flame of civil strife is about to enter the council another issue that does not agree, a major conflict, rather than consider working at harmony. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] ...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u21	Hv. A member is asked to respect a talk period.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u22	V.E.G. President. I came to a council 20 years ago, 1995. Over the years, several issues have been difficult for the council and serious conflicts. One of the greatest disputes about Krumnnnna. There were meetings throughout the country, meeting together with nature, and meetings with those who disagreed and had much controversy. This was discussed for weeks and months during the council. There was one thing learned from the discussion that we had to adjust our approach to this challenge, that we had to contribute to a righteous, reasonable debate. That's when there was a frame plan. Not everyone is happy about it. Many conservationists have disagreements, and many disagree with one another. [[The president calls.]] This led to the conclusion. I'm telling you, chief. President, this discussion here is not a filibuster, it is very serious... a warning to the government. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u23	A respectable president. At a time when it could be planned for a strike of 100,000 Icelanders at the end of this month, if nothing changes and people don't get together, this government will consider it a priority number number one to lower energy taxes on the countries around the country, priority number two to take the time of the council that is known to drudgery on the subject and discuss in which way the government is going to ignore the process that has been approved at the General Assembly on how we will make decisions about what resources we use and which we peace. That's the priority of this government. A respectable president. I don't understand why humans don't take the hand of the four statesmen, earlier today, that we'll be getting together at the council and find ways to solve the fight that's going on here. [[The president calls.]] Then you're going to war here on the resource because it's the priority of this government to push its emphasis against... [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u24	A respectable president. I can't figure out what it's meant to the President's conference board at any moment. paritaprevir The Svandís Svavarsdóttir shows up here for a while discussing the polls that have appeared over the past few weeks, but this is clear from these words. Councilmen of the United States and left greens are still hurting about losing their last election. [[Up front.]] With that. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson is in the hall, and here we are discussing the future Senate work, I ask all members of the council to read his book in the dragon's path.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u25	No, not in the dragon's path.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u26	So, what's the book's name, then, huh? Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u27	The age of the dragon.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u28	I'm sorry about the dragon's year. [[Up front.]] That's where it goes. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's review of exactly how the left greens sold their opposition to the EU against changing 14 years of work to a frame that had come along, but then left greens started with it and ran the frame plan through which it is now being discussed and will be here... [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It is only hope. A senator and a former minister of foreign affairs, Svandís Svavarddótttir, feel hurt about it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u29	The president wants to reiterate that members of Congress respect speech class.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u30	Madam President. I think there's a great lack of a job management of this government. With so few days left left for the council, you would expect people to focus on setting priorities and taking matters here on a program that would be pleased, which is a relatively large number of committees. No, they don't. I wonder why it is. Is this because the government groups do not agree on what issue they intend to put first? There's still housing bills stuck in the Ministry of Financial Affairs, a major campaign for the Agency's enterprise that could be introduced into a dress-off conversation, who knows? All of this is frozen. In order to have something on the council, let it be a matter that will definitely put everything on its side. If it's not burning in a camp - they gave up on it - they've got a case they know they can't get land or beach. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We say stop here and that's it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u31	A respectable president. I don't really understand the whole discussion because I do. The law on a Pre-Security and Energy Administrative Plan is being carried out, with the permission of the President: [[Up front.]] In agreement and cooperation with the Minister who presents energy issues at least every four years, the General Council proposes a resolution on a strategy for protection and energy efficiency of land areas. That's what you did. Environment Minister this fall. The project went to the trade committee. A professional health - care committee accepts and changes the proposal. It makes clear that it contains at least one major problem that is Hagium activation and possibly others. But I believe that other fortresses could be settled. That's why I don't understand how we're talking here about a violation of the protection and energy efficiency law because it's in Article 3. The law to do this every four years. [[The president calls.]] [[Arrangements are being made by the General Assembly...]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u32	Madam President. As everyone knows, there is a serious situation in the workforce. As we noted earlier today, if a dead body falls into a strike if nothing is done within a few days, more than 100,000 will be done. A respectable president. I would like to seek out the president that he would call members of the council members together to review the program tomorrow and see if there is no chance of presenting a case that calls for reconciliation in a council hall, as well as the precipitous way to help solve issues at a professional market, but to bring in here one of the nation's major issues at such a delicate time cannot be intended. [[... at a council meeting earlier?]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u33	Madam President. Don't worry, I'm not going to jerk up on what I'm doing. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir handles the truth or how she cares for the Icelandic language. [[Up front.]] To be honest, I don't care about that even if it does. A senator rephrases a book I wrote about the year, but I strongly object to it. A senator robs me four years of my life by calling it a huskhv. þm. Minister Swavar's daughter of the Foreign Minister in the first term. [[No.]] [[Up front.]] Well, then I'm kind of offered enough. In itself, I shouldn't care about that, though. paritaprevir Hauksdóttir Hauksdottir would not have read my book very well, but it has sometimes been shown in her language - and may surprise no one - that it will turn things completely upside down.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u34	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u35	I'm not protecting myself in the book, including in the account as it happened. A senator made up a subject where she said I had said that VG had sold his convictions with the EU for activation initiatives taken out. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] You see, it was the opposite. There I attack myself and wave my whip, so I myself'm a blood rise and I say it was what I wanted, but VG stood firm and didn't want it, but I was ready for that horse deal, even though I don't want any beauty award on it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u36	V.E.G. President. Part of a talk. paritaprevir In the past, Vigdís Hauksdóttir was absolutely right when she spoke to the president. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] It was correct, although there were other things that came out a little bit like the name of the fine book and who was the minister of foreign affairs during the last term. [[Up front.]] This is a discussion on which subjects are being arranged. It is clear that the controversial frame plan will arrive tomorrow. I'd like to say, more dignified President, that what I know about that law, but I sat as head of the industrial committee when they were taken over, is that the process, as it were, was to be done to the Generals, at least every four years, has not been gone, the task management, and all of it. That is, then, the subject of controversy. I'd like to ask, because the heads of the members of the members of the members of the board are both here in the hall and we are discussing what subjects are going to be on the agenda: Can the members of the House of Independence and the U.S. Congress tell us when the transport program for the next four years will be submitted and discussed? [[Up front.]] Or the Senate proposal to be made by a sea emissary to replace a so - called little pot that is also of utmost importance? [[The president calls.]] Neither of these cases has been asked at the Council, let alone. [[The president calls.]] When does this case come...? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u37	A respectable president. It has become clear from this discussion of what kind of failure the government may have to play Congress with its contours. You must ask when it's enough for this government. When can we say, "Now we're going to look for support, and we're going to try to find a way together? " Is there ever going to be a cross line in the history of this government? It has also become quite clear from the discussion that the government's conduct in this case, and then the government groups, has delayed treatment of activation options that may now be ready for innovation, and that progress continues to delay the implementation of activation options that could be fully agreed on. It is now that we realize what is to be harmed by that struggle. You can't make it, you're stuck, you can't land or beach. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Unable to create jobs and cannot lead the way out of conflict in society. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u38	A respectable president. With that. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson came up here and corrected his book title then would probably be the best name for the Dragon, because we know exactly how the Union went out of the last election, and it is often said of a man who is fired that he isn't a ◯cret. I've come up here to describe my weirdness. [[Up front.]] During the last term, when I was a member of the Parliament party, I was released at a council meeting. I feel that this time I have a discussion that will be held at a meeting of the council groups with the President because it is called after the council, I know as much as it was completed at the council meeting today, and it seems somehow to be a continuation of that discussion. It's very strange.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u39	V.E.G. President. I want you to know that at the conferences of the left movement, this is exactly the case by the chairman of the Party. It has been tried to take the discussion that has taken place here for the last hour and to move it into some reasonable channel where people and groups will come to a common conclusion about the coming council. According to Congress, when this matter arrives at our level, it was planned to complete the assembly by the end of May. I took a silent note primarily to draw attention to the fact that these exact views have been made available on the part of our senator for a meeting with the president of the council. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u40	A respectable president. It had long been realized that the members of the administration party, the independence party and the forwarding party, could not agree on anything. However, there is now a reason why the senators of the House of forwarders may attack or hold certain meetings there, for they are quite conflicting messages that we receive from them. Here at a meeting of the council groups this morning, the chairman of the Agency's council asked us to take up this discussion in the Senate Hall, discuss the matter in the chamber, there is nothing to wait for. When we do, it's only a few minutes later when the chairman of the budget board, huh? paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, from the same council, comes up here and begins to think that the discussion would be contrary to taking over here on the lower floor and not at all in the speaker's chair. Perhaps there is reason to ask for it. The head of the Ministerial Assembly explained which of the Parliament party is, for it is difficult enough to understand a government that can't even agree on December 1, let alone, although the members of Congress have not become divided in the simplest issues. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u41	A respectable president. It has been said that the members of my body here at the General Assembly use this team for President's conference board to chat. I come up here to attract the highest attention. Mr President, we're not talking. We're expressing our dissatisfaction. I'd like to try to wake up the highest. A president is wondering if this dissatisfaction and unpleasantness of the matter of Congress is going to come to mind. Is it worth it for the council to take such a disastrous turn? Is it not more important to consider other ways? Now we're at the beginning of the week. We know that if people are going to try to push through the council, with a new arrangement to the Senate resolution, between discussions, that we are going to take induction options that have not even been discussed in the frame management program, it's only a dead end. [[The president calls.]] It is a prescription for waste of time and waste of talent. [[The president calls.]] Why don't we sit down, find another way?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u42	V.E.G. President. I'd like to begin by saying that I have nothing to report to the President's conference board, but I'd like to make it right for us to take a conversation in the conference room, not under this team, but at the time of the session. There's a bit of a strange approach too if we're not going to allow any affairs here in the Hall where we know there's a disagreement. Is that not where we ought to take it on and discuss it? At the same time, I declared that I was ready to listen to what I heard. Councilmen here and their arguments. That's what I've done for this interesting team and will continue to do so. I'm ready to take full consideration of them and wonder about them and examine them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u43	Madam President. I make serious comments that this great issue will be arranged on the council program at such delicate times. I'd like to ask the president if I've been properly understood by the chairman of a panel of candidates who see nothing wrong in setting up one of the biggest issues of society, the resource use of a stipulation, when everything in the labour market is on fire. So, shall we fan the fire? Why don't we just sit down and talk it over and try to find a cohesion surface? Could it be that the head of Congress is feeling all right? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u44	V.E.G. President. I'm sorry, but I'm going to have to reiterate my question to the chairman of the members of the board. I thought for a moment. Egilsdóttir In answer to the questions I asked here, the question of the transport program would be presented to Eglóln Eglótttir. Is it because there is nothing in the conference? Transport is not doing anything. Or is it a matter of terms with the forward movement? In fact, it has nothing to do with this discussion, but because people are talking about taking a Senate resolution on a future discussion frame, I'm calling attention to the fact that these two council-sense proposals that I've been asking have not been taken up for a previous discussion. We've been competing here to put these matters on schedule to bring them up on committees. I just notice that the committees are going to work these two Parliamentaries when they finally arrive and if they come. [[The president calls.]] I reiterate my question to the chairman of the councils about these two unproved plans, let alone discuss. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u45	V.E.G. President. We continue a discussion on the bill for the legislation on the management and sale of the government's property in financial companies. In other words, this bill is that there is a twofold background, a source of authority for the sale of banks, and a fundamental system of changes involved in putting down the State Bank Commission and implementing a second arrangement for the bank management and the communication of the Ministry of finance with them. Seven. The bill is required for the sale of property items. These are referred to government property at Arion Bank, the government's ownership of the Bank of Iceland, and the holdings of the State at the Bank of Lands, more than 70% of the State's share of the total bank's total money. V.E.G. President. I'd like to state that I'm completely opposed to this, but I understand the criteria very well. As a result of the trade process, humans want to avoid what happened at the turn of the century and are still unsearched by the council, even though we have agreed to a political arrangement there, which says in 9 C.E. ... withauthority of the President's permission: When making a decision on the preparation and implementation of the government's holdings of financial institutions, the open trade process, transparency, objective, and practicality should be emphasized. Practically, the highest price, or market price, for property is searched.How much more so? It's where I stop. Of course, I am a follower if the government's share of the Lands Bank were to be sold as a result of searching for the most practical benefits and best price for government funds and, therefore, taxpayers, but my opposition to this bill is based on the practicalness of our community that we own this bank. I told myself that I understood how the government wanted to sell, and I am giving me that it was under considerable pressure that has greatly increased with the news of bank money. They have started purging the gold in old form and have been paying off to their owners hundreds of billions of dollars. Where it is and when it comes to government funds, of course they go there, where they remember less than 20 billion dollars to be referred to by the Bank of America. The government is now being sold, and it is natural that the government is now under attack. It's the same party that wants us to sell land induction and that we sell other public property. The economic and business organizations have concluded that way. I think it is very important that our little financial system is in possession of at least one powerful bank. This was an opinion that we had and also held in our left movement when the banks were made part - part societies around the turn of the century and sold, we were opposed, but we emphasized that at least one bank would be kept in state. That would have been better done. Now we see increasingly closely following the ideas both east of the ocean and west looking for ways to run the banking system in a more hostile way to our client, trying to avoid the aggressive policy that has marked the financial system, which has been guided in all ways by profit, and who wants to look for ways to run the financial system and banks in the interests of society. Thus, various towns and rural areas west of the United States have been experimenting with them, putting all their affairs into their own financial systems, which, in turn, expand their services as taxpayers, creditors, and lenders, because people get their pay through the banks, and then they spill money into their professional life. The question, then, is: How much is the emphasis on making interest for bank owners? Or do we want to watch social events? This is what I prefer when referred to in the word practicality, that practicality lies primarily in it, and that is defined in Article 9. The law bill, to get the highest price for the banks. This may not necessarily be the most practical solution to our community. The second factor at the bill is to shut down the Bank Office and bring power over the banks, in the case of authority, into the Ministry of finance, and more strongly linked to the local financial secretary. He is, indeed, to be consulted by a committee of experts, a consulting committee as defined in the Law. There's a list of 4. The bill who'll be sitting there. In Comb 4. says, with permission of the president: ▪ In the Advisoral Committee on Companies in State Rent, three individuals and one are appointed by a minister without a appointment. A minister appoints one of them president and decides the approval of members of the committee. The Ministry shall add the Commission to the position and other services required by the Committee. Then there is reason to legalize that the Advisor board is legal, and it is not a matter of dealing with the law for years of employment in some way. All right. What does it mean when a minister appoints a committee without a appointment? There is no opportunity for outsiders to offer their suggestions, and binding suggestions on the composition of the Committee. A cabinet minister without a form simply means that the minister is in control of the members of the committee himself. He also decides a fee for members of the committee. V.E.G. President. I thought we were in the wake of the economic collapse trying to move us away from that arrangement, to create, or to build the administration so that the personal influence and connection of the men who take the power and the others who give the counseling and lead the way, or to take part in the direction, for of course, the government is the one who makes the policy, but to take part in its implementation, that they are independent and are not completely inspired by the minister's spirit. But so it is with this committee. So we are driving back before 2008, in the fall of 2008, as far as the government back there is concerned. I'll allow me to have very serious doubts about this bill, to form in terms of sales on banks. Now let me state that we discussed it in the first government whether it was right or necessary that the state, for example, should be fully owned by the Bank of Lands 100%. It was certainly spoken of this percentage, 70%. However, I believe that as the discussion developed, or so I understood, we have come to believe that the most natural possession of that bank was the government. Then I'm talking about money, I'm talking about the effects and emphasis that such a financial agency would have, and then it spreads into the general financial system. I think it's important to learn that at the time, the ratio was called, but the population had moved toward 100% share. That's how I understood it. So it was my opinion, and I had the feeling that we who formed the last government were in that case, ending a rich understanding of it in it, and most certainly followed by the catastrophes that happened in connection with collapse, that there was a financial agency in our tiny economy, as I said before, which had a good stairway. There are other practical and beneficial things to discuss in this regard. That is, then, how the state should benefit from its property, whether it is bank, fortresses, seafood, the resources in general, when we should do so through property, and when to do so indirectly through resource resources, as mentioned above. V.E.G. During the day, the secretary of finance said that it might be desirable to start a resource fund as a profit from the sources of energy. That's a good idea, but it's not enough for me. Not only are we supposed to be making money in there but we're also supposed to have these companies. The power companies are supposed to be at the hands of society, the state, and also of rural society. It is of utmost importance to my judgment. This is a discussion that will benefit us. The minister raised the matter at a body of professional organizations, I think I was, not long ago. We all have an opportunity to participate in a discussion about where we want to go, how we are going to make money, and how we are going to benefit from our resources and valuables in our society in the same community. Finally: I think it's a matter much bigger than it is so that we take it here in a few days before the Senate, and it has been said that one of the parties is very skeptical of the matter, agreeing on his recent council, I don't know better than the forward party did, that it would not be his delight that the government's object in the National Bank would be sold, if it wasn't also against putting down the Banks, although I don't want to say it was so. There's no solidarity here. I think we're supposed to take this thing together, but we don't try to cross planning changes, it's basic planning changes, with great disagreements.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u46	A respectable president. I'm not one of those people who's really afraid to sell these things at Arion Bank and Iceland Bank for a long time and maybe some small part in the Lands Bank. Still, I don't think it's time to do that in the near future. This is because people have not yet completed the work on the swelling farms. There is something else in the setting that I think will not bring us the best price for these assets at this point in the economic environment, i.e. The crumbling of the crown we live in. A respectable president. I, however, share with what? Under these circumstances, a senator is concerned about why it is so hard to put down the bank office itself. I can't quite figure that out. I wonder, like, what? Senator, what's behind it? I disagree with what is said on the bill that now is the right time, according to what was originally started, to lay it down. The pain, set after the collapse, is not entirely finished because the swellings are still standing uninhabited. A respectable president. I share this concern. Then I'd like to ask the highest. Minister - No, no, no. Senator, he's so minister-like here on the sideline, he's so good at being a minister--the way he sees that we have things for a long time. The bank administration was to be a preliminary event, until things were made up, but how does he envision it? Does he agree with me that the Bank Office has proved its excellence and is possibly the phenomenon that should be maintained for a long time or that at least it is not time to put it down at this point? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u47	V.E.G. President. I'll admit that I haven't seriously considered myself to be the right arrangement for the future, and I'd like to hear choices that would be there. But I agree with that. A senator that it's not time to put down Bank County. I don't see the evidence that it's not going to pass on time at any point in the future. That's where I completely agree. Senator. Hv. A senator draws a line between the sale of the government's property in Arion Bank and Iceland Bank and, to some extent, in the Bank of Lands Bank. My line lies in only another place, as I did explain before. I'm drawing my line at the Lands Bank. I believe he belongs to the community. I agree with that, too. A senator that we must look to that, about the sale of property at Arion and Iceland Bank, when it's best to do this. Let us not forget that these banks are giving us back, our property, a lot of money. Do not overlook that. Thus, it is a challenge for many to get over the possession of these golden cows.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u48	A respectable president. Thank you. Senator. I don't think it's time for me to go shopping on property in the banks. I think we must first see how the swelling farms work out, the whole amount of waste in that language, so that you can see in what way the bank environment will develop for a long time. I also think that it is a total failure in these circumstances to put down the bank office and set up a government advisory committee that will be directly organized by a minister, especially in view of the fact that when the deportation of the camp is going to take place, huge possessions will be changed into our society. It does not matter how it will be done, nor does it matter how the Kingdom behaves in this whole - souled relationship. As a result, I don't think it's time for men to decommission the intermediate population of the Bank Management Board.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u49	V.E.G. President. This is exactly the point of taking this middle, since this is the middle, preparing for an extension of the minister's arm. That's it. He appoints himself as a counseling group without a form. He decides a fee for them, and he is also entitled to whether he will listen to or follow their advice. It's just like a group of workers working within the Ministry's wall. It just doesn't work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u50	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator on the tour. I'd like to ask him about Section 4. which he makes as a subject similar to 2 pars. current legalized by Presidential permission of the Bank County: With the administration of the government's bank administration, there will be a three-man administration by the secretary of finance. One deputy shall be appointed in the same manner. [...] Secretary of finance appoints the Chairman and the Vice President and decides the approval of the government. I'd like to ask you what. A senator is the difference between the current law on how finance minister appoints the administration of the Bank Office and what it says in Article 4. in relation to the counseling committee intended to appoint. Second, I'd like to ask who. A senator because he served in the government for at least two times during his last term. On August 18, 2009, the Bank County Act was set. But on page 18. 6 In the bill on the financial property of the state, it says that Anion Bank was owned by the State until November 2009 as well as by Iceland Bank. However, when these banks were handed over to demanding authorities, the government's banking agencies were not involved. At times, the second has been spoken of as a personal change. So I'd like to ask you why. A senator who then sat, that I believe, in a government: Why didn't the Bank Office, if it means so much today, with both the issues, Arion Bank and Bank of Iceland, where it had been set up on August 18, 2009, when the government decided to hand over Arazi's bank and Bank of Iceland in November 2009?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u51	V.E.G. President. I'm not saying it, so I don't say in my speech that everything that used to be good, sure not. If there's something that's critical of the bank office's order contrary to the spirit I call after, then we should turn in that direction instead of the others. I believe that the main difference between the Bank Office and the current Commission is that under the law, if I know them properly, there is a so-called Arms distance between the Banksand the Ministers of finance. How this interaction should be, how it should be handled, and how there is a fundamental difference. Now I'd like to hear a point of view. Senator. Is it true that we should try to strengthen the distance between the advise committee, or whatever name we call her, and a minister, or would she want to go in the opposite direction?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u52	A respectable president. I don't represent answers, but I'm opposed to what. A senator who wishes that he would answer any questions I might ask him. So I want to direct my question back to him. Why does he believe that the Bank Management Board did not achieve these major issues when Acion Bank and Iceland was moved from the state in November 2009 and the Bank Department founded in August 2008? Hv. A senator then sat in the government, so he must be aware of why the Bank Office did not handle these matters. I'd like to ask you, too. A member of Parliament: What has the Bank Management Board been doing since its release in connection with financial companies? She didn't have a SpKef and SPRON. What smaller savings around the country have been at the hands of the Bank County, which makes it such an important institution with much knowledge to be confused? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u53	V.E.G. President. I don't know the answers to all these questions. The senator regarding the events she refers to here. I know the answers alone that I am referring to. In fact, I am sharing in this discussion, what arrangement I consider best in these matters. I'm speaking for that, and it may well have been so in the past, too, that we have this arm length and are trying to create a distance, and hence the trust of the public regarding this administrative arrangement. What I'm talking about is that we promote the independence of the Bank Office and increase the transparency in dealing with the Minister who deals with these matters. I don't think the changes being proposed here are going in that direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u54	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. A candidate for a verbal speech. Many governmental opposers have been very personal in this discussion. I'm not gonna repeat that, okay? A senator doesn't deserve that. He considered matters materially, but I still don't quite understand it, for it's like that. A senator has not completely resolved the matter. First: Bank administration, there are two who work there, then a secretary and a three - man government. The board is set up without a form. Secretary of finance appoints the administration. If they don't agree that this is done on the Advisor Committee, that's exactly the way it is done at the Bank Office. This is not to say that we are making a personal decision on banks. True, the Bank Board was set up to prepare it, but it's all advising, just as will be done with the consulting committee, it makes suggestions. In case of a moment. A senator reads Article 4. ... thisis all about making proposals, and I specifically refer to the G, i, and Y team. A respectable president. There is nothing wrong with the need to change that material arrangement. It's just not right. First, the decision to sell is not yet being made. V.E.G. Secretary of finance appoints men of the Bank County Management Board, just like the Advisor Committee, exactly the same. It is assumed that in these laws, if and when it comes to Kingdom Halls, it will take care of what is the best place we trust when it comes to shopping and tenders of the state. But that, of course, is a long process. I can't see anything else, a respectable president, but to discuss and resist. A senator is based on a perfectly misunderstanding. That's why. A senator, he was in the last government, that if, for example, people don't want to have a property share, they can have it that way, as was done in the last government. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u55	V.E.G. President. As I understand this matter, it is that with these changes, the presence between the consultants and the secretary of finance will be higher. I understand this so that the distance that has been called a long - distance distance from the bank office will be reduced. It may be true that the Board of Directors of Bankisate is organized by a secretary of finance without a form of appointment. But then I ask, " Isn't that a change? ' Is it not advisable to take them in the other direction and to increase the independence of those who work with them? We are talking about vast assets and all political interactions and involvement in these vast possessions need to be well balanced and above all opinions. I think there's a benefit for everyone. My focus is that we try to go the other way and make this administration the most independent political power in the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u56	A respectable president. There may be a point of view, and then let's just discuss it. But it has nothing to do with the Bank Office, it has nothing to do with this bill. Hv. A senator was in the last government. He knows exactly that two scratches were taken, they didn't go into Bank County. Anyone reading the research report on the savings fund knows that. At that time, the then government decided not to use this institution. Then the Agency also offered suggestions on how to treat the savings funds - nothing was followed, nothing. So the bank management isn't a tool for any arm length. A transparency? Nothing. I know. I was in the middle of something. A business committee and I know exactly how to get information. No transparency. So the Bank Management doesn't have anything to do with this. If you believe that the advisory committee is a nominee or someone else is involved in something else - it is assumed in this bill that many people are coming in, the Navy and others, they're all being traced down here on the bill. If you want to add to that, it's probably just going over, but you're not supposed to talk about Bank County, as they've done here because it's a perfect misunderstanding. [[The president calls.]] Who knows better than what? A senator who was in the last government? Nobody.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u57	V.E.G. President. There's just the right comment next to you. paritaprevir Guðlaugur told Þór Þórðarson that I was in the last government. I was also at a council while the government was in the past; and for 20 years I have sat here and watched what has been happening here in the relations of political power and financial powers. [[Up front.]] I watched it from a distance, too far away, unfortunately, when banks were made to partners and then sold. Or shall we say, give? I think that word can be used, in part, in any way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u58	Not according to...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u59	They were brought up on a silver plate around the turn of the century. [[Not according to Bank County.]] [[Up front.]] What the General will not do is conduct the Congress's approval of the investigation of these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u60	Mr. President. I thought it was my fault. paritaprevir Gullish Þór Þórðarson made a rather harsh and harsh statement about the Bank County earlier, accused her of having no transparency, and that a financial and tax committee could not have received any information from her at the time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u61	... I'm accusing the last government you were in.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u62	I thought why. A senator speaks in such a way that it would have been difficult for a financial and tax committee to get information through the Bank County on the course of events.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u63	...the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u64	Then it's just a misunderstanding, and I'm both asking. A senator and the Bank Office apologize for that. I was going to give a special mention that here we moved haw. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Sigurjónjarsson, quite excellent a few days ago on the Bank Office, and he reported that he believed that she knew a lot about the things she's supposed to use, she'd have put in charge of the Economic and Business Committee several times to give information there, and it would have been of great benefit. I believe, as noted in various comments on my part, that it is not a luck mission that is being made to change extracurricular management of the state's property in banks and savings in the way this is being done. It is absolutely clear that there is still much to do in these substances. What's really important, and what's really important. paritaprevir The God - Guðlaugur Þórðarson may have been able to answer the following questions: Why are people evaporating from an arrangement that is in the hands of a nation that was taken up in all European countries where banks collapsed in 2008? It has been very successful everywhere, and the viewpoint has always been the same, creating a distance between political power and financial and property. We Icelanders and I know of a bitter experience, to say the least, that the neighborhoods of political power and financial power are poisonous. That was much of the reason for what happened to us back then. All of this is attributed to the report. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur of Þór Þórðarson has repeatedly referred to a report of the Allied Research Committee. At one time, it was recorded. When the bill was submitted to the establishment of the Bank Office, it was specifically referred to in a paper with the bill made by OECD, which showed that it would be unattainable to have the same Ministry of Law and Orders with markets to sell a certain amount of service and property in companies that were selling this service. This is very clear. So it was presented on the basis of a long international experience. I can't remember better than that. paritaprevir The God - Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson Thorddar was at his time among those who wrote under the commission and discussed it, and they had nothing to do with it. Bank management is a way of holding the property of the state in banks and savings and putting it away when it comes at the right time. I can't help but admire it when I look over Bank County's career that she's had a very clear and clear course that has not always been fond of. She has had the goal of not selling things at this time, but she is waiting for the right time to come, which is favorable for sale, but it has emphasized the profit and money. Mr. President, how has the government's banking business become a success? It has been restored to about 40% of about 150 billion dollars. It's the original budget of the state funds to the business banks. This has been done without selling one stock because the Agency's priorities have been on the market rather than on stock markets. During this time, the letters have increased quite significantly. So there is no other way to say that the conservative theme followed by the Bank Management Board was extremely successful. The bank administration is so built that the minister has no authority to intervene in her work. Laws and rules literally forbid the highest. Secretary of finance talking to Bank County. If he chooses to communicate ideas or suggestions with them, he must write them down. Under the law, the Bank Board already has to notify the Economic and Business Committee and the Senate budget. That makes it official. Of course, this is very important. According to current law, the minister cannot take it upon himself to put things in a trade process. However, the bill here is being presented in a completely different way. It is suggested that the banking board be directly laid down. Instead, a counseling committee is to be set up for three men. Who would appoint and nominate the Advisor Committee? The secretary himself. The change is also so that according to the bill, the secretary has the initiative to determine the trade process. This is a big change. Of course, this is important. According to the bill we are discussing, the minister needs to do almost nothing more than consult with the advisory committees he himself appointed. He must, of course, allow the Economic and Business Committee to discuss the matter within the period he owns, but the bill does not say one word about the need for him to take note of it, and then he must present the matter to the Sentencing Bank and consult there. In order to perform my legal maintenance role, I have to point out that, at the same time, it has also been declared that there are two other bank managers to present a bill of changes in the management board, which means there are two other bank managers. Of course, according to the old 50-50 rule of the present government, they're going to laugh at each other's bank manager. In other words, the Society's independence is being undermined, and of course it is important to consider these matters together. Third, Mr. President, I request that the Icelanders remain in the face of the most potential and complex operation that they have had to take on in the financial system, i.e. ... toexploitofaburst. It is quite clear that it will be possible in the only way to shave the crown property and that the banks that are now much more owned by foreign workers will land in the state. It's hard to see anything else. So, if it's the right way, Mr. President, to plan on making a decision on holding and about possible sale at two new large banks, plus 30% at the Bank of America and part of the savings into the desk at the highest. Secretary of finance? Hv. Þórðarson It happened the other day, after listening to an answer from me, that I was raising an evil motive. I'm going to remind you that it's not long since there was been sold a company hired by the Lands Bank and it doesn't even occur to me for a moment to accuse any man of having had some sort of political intervention there, but how did a discussion arise in its wake? How do you keep it. The members of the board of directors that the discussion will occur when banks, banks, savings, and directly making decisions about this in the Ministry of finance? That's what I'm warning you. This is not a convenient position for politics, whether it is a government or a government. That's what I wanted to say about the self-employment of the bill. As a matter of fact, I also make comments on how men will then arrange orders in the administrations of banks. Keep in mind that this may be the time when two large banks may also belong to the State. As the Bank Office is now inhabited, the Minister of the Board of Directors orders. She appoints a selection committee that selects according to applications in bank management. According to the bill, this is where the Minister himself appoints a three-man advisory committee without a form of appointment and selects it from the bank administrations. Thus, the distance between the political power and the bank power has been greatly reduced. I also believe that's not good. What matters to me when we make such changes is the basis for their construction. For example, has there been an independent assessment of the costs and flaws of the present arrangement? You can't find it in the report. Has this arrangement proved to be bad? I'm not convinced of it, and nothing will prove it to me. It is simply premise that this bill includes changes in a system of people in all European countries that have made banks after the crisis in 2008 and in an arrangement that is not known to be at all. It's a placard. We're going into the middle of nowhere, and no one knows how this has been because it's been tried nowhere else. At one time, independent bank offices were established in Britain, Greece, the Netherlands, Ireland, and Spain. At one time, 1991, the law of banking was also given in Norway when the bank crisis raged there. She served for 13 years. It is true, Mr. President, to emphasize it when men, like men, do. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur of Þórðarson, says that the government's banking agency has been working too long, that in Norway, where people took it up and used it with tremendous success, the Agency eventually led to all the funds the Norwegian banks set up in the wake of the 1991 bank crash with considerable benefits, profits, and interest. There, the banking board lived for 13 years. Then why is it that way? paritaprevir Gudgle Þór Þórðarson says she's gone way too old here, too long? [[Up front.]] - I guess you said that earlier in this discussion. There is a possibility that the Bank Management Board still has a major part of its work. If so, recall that in the United Kingdom too, they set up a similar organization. This was done by the Workers'Party, but the Singles who then took over have no plans to lay it down, but they feel that it is very useful and useful. Then, in comparison, Iceland's government fund has far more money to stake on stock markets in banks than any other European country. For example, the information reported in last year's annual bank report shows that the stock of the state's funds in the Index of Business Bank at the end of that year, 2013, as a ratio e.g. The GDP was nearly 15% or much higher than in most other countries. That's why it's important to have a real institution that has experience. Then I'm just going to swerve it for a while. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur of Þórðarson has certainly said that it is great to put this in a business trade because it is our best agency in this area. He's absolutely right. She's very good at what she's experienced in. But I ask: Is there any special experience within this institution to sell possessions that will probably be worth $250 billion today? And further: Is there any experience, some expertise within the Ministry of finance, in order to cope with it? I'm not sure. On the other hand, men have fought hard through banks. And when people talk about it cost so much -- well, what's the bank management cost, anyway. paritaprevir Gullious Þórðarson? Fifty-six hundred and sixty million a year. How much of the entire government? [[Up front.]] 0.02%, that's what it costs a year based on data from the base. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson the son of Siglejon from the General's symposium since last week. I wonder, if this change becomes reality, if it won't, at the end of the day, cost much more. Won't the Government and the Ministry of finance have to buy a lot of expert advice outside their walls in order to be able to deal with this? Everybody knows how much it costs. Mr. President. As a tribute to the council and the short time of it, I will not make full use of my talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u65	A respectable president. Thank you. A candidate for the talk and would like to ask him a few questions on the following page. First of all, section 4. where it is. A senator was concerned about the length of arms between the secretary of finance and the advisory committee. Now it's 2 st. Act of the Bank Office that it is a Minister who appoints three men, and it is also a minister who decides the approval of government officials. In fact, the Commission of the Bankis administration is arranged in a manner to appoint the advisory committee now. It also says, by permission of the President: The work of the management board is shaped and monitors the activities and activities of the Agency. All major decisions should be made in writing under the board for approval or demonstration. It is a government made up of three men, and any major decision must be subject to it. Counts 'em out. Senator that the length of the administration is longer now than if the advisory committee was to be set up. ? Third, because of what. A senator was the highest. Secretary of State for the last four years, I'd like to ask him, "How did the government of Iceland during 2009-2013 didn't have the government's office of Banks to take over the bank and Iceland banks when handed over to the demands? " Why did it not go to the government's Bankament, where it had been legally established on August 18, 2009, but that was a solution in November 2009? If the banking business is so important, how come that performance didn't go through the Bank County?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u66	Mr. President. With this last question, I'm quite honest: I don't know. I can't explain it to you before now. Senator. I was a member of the government, but I don't remember the underlying reasons for it, but I'm sure that the present financial minister would be. paritaprevir Steingrimur J. Sigfússon, can reveal this, and there must be some doubt about it. I don't doubt that either. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur nature of Þór Þórðarson has long considered this on that committee. It doesn't change the fact that the Bank Office's been working very well, and she's done a great job, I think. I didn't always agree with the direction it has followed, but it seems to have come true. I tried to trace it here only by numbers. In terms of the difference between the current bank administration and how it is ordained on the other hand, the advisory committee is a significant difference. I specifically mention 8th. I'm quite clear, which matters for me and has been why I've been acting a little bit in discussions about these matters, that the minister can, in his own initiative, put things in a trade process, that's just like that. I think it's going back, and I think it's way too close to the political power. I'm afraid of such a neighborhood, I'm afraid of it for a number of reasons. It may answer the question as a matter of course. A senator pointed to me about the difference between the board and the board. I don't care how these decisions are determined, but it is clear that this three - man advisory committee is organized by the minister, and their relationship is not limited. Today, the Minister cannot present any orders or comment to the bank administration in any way different from the official procedure, which is the transparency. It may be possible to increase transparency, but there is more transparency than there is in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u67	A respectable president. It says "I." The current law on the state's Bankiscation to the government's work by permission of a president: ▪ To make proposals to the secretary of finance on whether and when designated financial assets will be offered for a commercial sale in view of the objectives of the Agency. 3 mg 1st , and in accordance with current legislation and objectives of the scattered ownership of First of all, the board is in charge of everything. The board is organized by secretary, the chairman is in charge. Then the director needs to make suggestions on what to do. If the secretary of finance wants things differently, what is the position of the Bank Office?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u68	I understand the law in such a way that under such circumstances an appropriate professional committee is needed at the council. Then the Minister or Bank Management Board, if not two, must alert the council in such a way that it will come to pass, and the decision is made by the Senate.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u69	A respectable president. Hv. A senator here talks about things the way he likes them but not as they are. Here's Bank Management, this is a two-man agency, there's three in a board, she has no power. She's just offering some suggestions for a minister, just like the consulting committee. She's supposed to be keeping an eye on the tenant policy. The field policy is determined by a minister. If this is approved, the highest will be available. Secretary of finance - and that knows why. Senator, former U.S. Marshal. Minister, have been here as long as the oldest men remember - nothing sold in banks or anything else without passing through the council. Hv. A senator knows, and I don't understand why. A senator speaks this way. This is ridiculous; as if it were done only on the secretary's desk, he can't sell anything unless the council has decided. In fact, this bill says that much more people are to come in on the business, make comments, and so on, than does the Bank County Act. Hv. A senator was in the last government. Did the Bank Office follow what they said about the savings fund? Was that applied? Hv. A senator must come up here and explain this, because he was in the last government. In the past six years, a banking organization that has cost 400 million lives had become a major business in all those times. He must answer these questions: Why were the funds not followed by the bank office's proposals? Why didn't the Bank Office have a share in the largest financial industry? Why? Here we go. A senator who says, "It's a hell of a thing. We're taking arm lengths and all this. Last government didn't do anything with Bank County. And what? A senator will have to explain if he thinks it went so well and she did so well. Was it because she was overwhelmed?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u70	Mr. President. Hv. A senator must then explain more to the Senate what it means to speak as if it were his conclusion that the Bank Office has done a bad job. The fact that she's done a lot of work and she's spent a lot of money. [[I was talking about the government.]] Hv. A senator speaks of 400 million in a six - to - seven - year period. The situation is simply today that it costs between 50 million and 60 million each year, and it has been carefully occupied with the work that has been entrusted to her and, in fact, much more than reasonably. [[Up front.]] She has at this time, as I previously traced, with a considerable conservative course -- as I said earlier, I may not have agreed with her on the front - without selling a single stock recovery of 40% of the 140 billion into the business banks. And that's what matters. That's what I'm talking about. So a senator would say that the bill available here does not change anything, that it does not reduce political and financial authority closes?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u71	I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u72	Is that not what counts? Is that not the lesson we should learn from the crisis, the collapse of the bank, that it was far too close? That's what we wanted, me and him. A senator, at his time,--yes asked why. þm. Steingrímur J. Sigfusson of that. [[I'm asking you.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm less of a guy. A senator said that we agreed that there would be a need to increase the distance between them as possible in order to avoid this happening again. But it's like whisk. A senator doesn't care about that at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u73	A respectable president. I draw attention to it. A senator answered no question. He was in the last government, they set up the bank business, which was supposed to have a possession. Did she have the assets? Only when it was convenient, only when it was convenient. And what? A senator was in the government. Tell us why it was only when it was convenient, tell us, okay? Senator. When we see in the study that there was a total loss of 21 billion on SKef, who never entered the Bank Office, due to the loss of the government. A senator sat in, just decided not to. Hv. Senator, I'll be back in the speech, don't worry about it. But answer the question. It's a huge deal. This was during a discussion at the council, with the people. Hv. A senator owes us to come here and explain why men started an organization that was supposed to hold on to property and then let it go and did nothing to the agency's proposal. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u74	The President reminds me of why. A senator is required to direct his words to the president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u75	Mr. President. Hv. In a large report that cost hundreds of millions, a senator can read all about SpKef, and the council has devoted much time to crossing. I don't have to come here to be a tracer. A senator proposes that matter. It would be my pleasure to listen to him repeat the main subject of the talk he is about to give in the following article. Hv. A senator stands before the fact that this is contrary to what I and he agreed about during the previous years - sure, since they decided to take on the experience of other nations in an effort to reduce the neighborhood and increase the distance between political and financial authority. [[No.]] That is what the General's study of the year was one of the main reasons why over the nation's people are knocking on the bank, with all the terrible consequences we have had to face. [[Answer the question.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u76	Come on.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u77	And what? A senator would rather be pleased to take along the road with us in order to prevent us from setting up the same position.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u78	The president would like to ask members of the hall to respect the fact that the senator who is in the General Assembly is alone.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u79	Mr. President. A bill that follows the bill for handling and selling the state's ownership of financial institutions shows what I think is the key or key rationalization for the bill, with the permission of presidents: the bill will be set up that the cost of government funds on therapy and sale of the government's holdings in financial contributions from what has been [...] ~ and that the overall impact of the bill in charge of the state budget can be estimated by 40 to 50 million. K. every year,Come on. This seems to be the main point. According to the Guide on the preparation and release of the legislation, there is always a need to follow the administration criteria and the need for legislation. Article 2 of the report with the bill shows why and where the law is needed. It seems that the main point is that the bank office dropped funds and that she should have completed her work and something like that. This was a five - year assignment, and because they have reduced their budget and do not want her to do the work she does, including the work she does. advice on how to invest the bank's personal resources or sell state property in banks, into the Ministry. Can't there be other ways to do this? How does the senator feel? Does he feel justified in shutting down this institution and possibly saving it and feel that he is likely to be correct in the amount of savings, 40 to 50 million? We're talking about a huge estate. How much are they again? $2,250,300 billion? And that it is a professional process that is already being sold. [[The president calls.]] Shouldn't the bank business be funded and secure even more professional, more open, more transparent processes that don't guarantee... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u80	You're right. According to one senator, this is probably the principal reason for the bill's work to be saved at 50 to 60 million. But is it savings? I'm not sure. This is a very complex process when it comes to holding both hands and then removing these great things. If they're going to go into the Ministry of State, I'm afraid we're going to have to hire or buy a lot of extracurricular services, and it's gonna be very expensive to them. I'll give it to myself because it's a very big question whether this savings will get any of this. However, it doesn't matter to me, I'd like to say it just as it is, even if they allow themselves to be remembered for so large a property, even as a whale. A senator suggested, add to the Agency's staff. I think so. Hv. A senator asked me which way to go. I think it should be like the Norwegians who had a deep bank crisis in 1991. They set up an institution like this and planned to keep it for six or eight years, believing that it would have left all its possessions, but it took longer, and she lived for 13 years. When it was completed, it became evident that they had recovered all the provisions they had made for the banks and with considerable fruitfulness. So I'm convinced of this, especially with the way the Bank Office has worked, she has already separated the money that has gone into it and will surely do so in the future. To answer a question, why? Senator: I believe that we should have the Bank Office until we complete this mission. It might well take another five years, maybe longer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u81	Mr. President. Yes, exactly. It is going into a trade process on the overexploitable property of the state, $2,250,300 billion. Government property in banks. Then they're going to turn around in the middle of the river and lose the expertise that is in the Bank Office and transfer them to the Ministry. It sounds pretty crazy to be going into that process with a new character, going into the process of selling these enormously enormous assets with new resources. I don't think that's a good management. The talk has been good, and I advise everyone to listen again to a talk. paritaprevir Accusations, Össur of Skarphéðinsson, and speech. þm. Steingrímur J. Sigfuson's son at the outset of his discussion - og the Árni Paul is asking for his help. [[Up front.]] I felt that they were getting along very well where real power will go from private to private. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I pay a great deal of caution about getting involved in the important process of selling banks' property... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u82	I believe that the last talk was the best talk that has ever been given during this discussion, and it was very clear that it was the case. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson is a good listener. I agree with him on the main outcome. She's the one with the dog. A senator who is crazy, as he put it, is now planning to saddle a new horse and ride the river when it becomes clear that we have other smart ones who have gone really well at this pace. But then I think back to what. A senator says that we are not alone with that opinion. Hv. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson gave a big speech and literally shredded this bill, a number of things to do with it. Then I recalled that the fine company that I always love in the secrets of my heart, the forwarding party, adopted a new council resolution in which he opposed the collapse of the bank county. Are we not here talking about the need for the council's time to complete important matters? [[The president calls.]] Why wear this when there is a certain government party against it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u83	A respectable president. This discussion is finally followed by an all - out discussion, and there is good reason. What is it about? Investment banking and politics are a poisonous mixture. Investment banking and politics are the source of corruption. Time and again, involvement in investment banking and politics has cost taxpayers enormous amounts of money. The involvement of politics and investment banking has resulted in a national failure in Iceland. So there is good reason to be very careful when it comes to laws in this area. If so, it is urgent that professional matters be handled, and it is vital that we endeavor to make peace and solidarity that can be of the utmost importance in this regard. Is there reason for us Icelanders to experiment with politics and investment banking? I think the answer to that question is pretty obvious, no. We have an example to protect ourselves from excess of other nations. The fact is, all countries of Western Europe that have had to take part in financial companies have had banking agencies between the politics and their holdings, as this is. That is why, in the beginning, I traced that not only Icelanders but nations around the world have the bitter experience that the interaction between politics and investment banking is a death - dealing combination. Keeping politics away from investment banking can have serious consequences. Is there any reason why we Icelanders should have less place between politics and investment banking in our country than any other country? No, indeed. On the contrary, there may be reason to wonder, " Do I need to go further and have even greater arm length than do those in the bank business? ' The reason is that we also need to face the fact that we are a small nation, 0.3 million people, and here we are near, acquaintances, friendship, and cousins, the independent source of corruption, and the special reason to avoid and work against such arms lengths as the Bank Office, with the demands for the greatest possible transparency. What are they doing here? Here, it's a natural proposal to put down what is going on between the Ministry and the holdings of the banks, i.e. The bank office, replacing some kind of private employment committee of the Minister. It has been presented as an argument that there are only more than two standards involved. I don't think I've ever heard any more reason to continue the operation of this institution, Bank County, but exactly that. Indeed, it is a good job to build no more booths for this than to need only two employees or more to manage such an enormous interest and large holdings, and have done so in a way that taxpayers have already recovered 40%, more than half of what they had to pay at the return of the banks in making donations. There has also been evidence that this arrangement should be suspended because it had not been used for the treatment of all assets at all times. I can't see what that argument is all about. It may have been that the Bank Management Board should have played a more important role than it has ever done, should have set in motion an even greater number of projects than it has done. But there is no evidence that she continues to exist. On the contrary, there must be evidence that she is to receive more work. It may be the most strange thing to do in choosing this time point to put it down to prove that it was possible when some members of the Parliament wanted to claim that the Bank Office was actually the Bank of America's Bank, i.e. it would be easy to have this special institution that it was primarily about property in one financial enterprise. But what is happening now? The bank's broken control is now being negotiated on how to solve the swellingers and release from currency capitals. All of us know that the key element in the agreements that the government inevitably makes that and has finally recognized that there is a debate about how to handle the inactive holdings of the farms in Arazi and Iceland banking banks, which gives reason to believe that there might be even more extensive work for the Bank Office to do in the months ahead and lost than have been in the past few years, and that there is therefore even more reason to hold on to the bank office, strengthen and strengthen it. We have to be lucky to sell property items professionally in our business banks. We need to have wisdom to keep political paws as far away from that process as possible, ensure equality, access to everyone, and as professional occupations of it. It is therefore unwise in the highest way to throw away the institution that has been gathering experience and knowledge of this project for nearly six years and to produce as good results as it really is.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u84	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I have to admit that I have some disappointments about my situation. A senator skates over things and tries to draw up some picture that does not exist. Let's just leave it for a national fee. I got it. I got it. To read the new book of Dr. Ásgeir Jónsson and Dr. Hersir - I can't remember his son - the son of Winger, where these factors and the cost of the bank are exactly considered. [[Take it up, Wingersson.]] We can discuss this in particular and in the light of the fact that when it came to banks and other things, we took no note of the European Union's regulations. Hv. A senator can't come up here and say that this institution has guaranteed an arm length. It's just not enough. We can agree that it needs an arm length, but we cannot insist on it. A senator well knows that the government's bank administration alone was a guarantee. If we want to do something more with the arm length, it's naturally expected in this bill, and we have to cross it. But, hey. A senator knows that the assets of the SpKef and Byr and, of course, the big banks, Arion banks and so Glits, were not put into this institution, they were not followed by the proposals that were in this institution regarding the savings. It is also noted that despite the presence of this institution, the price of sale was not even given when the Landsbana privateized companies during the last term. There's been a lot of people working in Bank County, unfortunately, there's been quite a lot of employees and all the people meeting, they have nothing to do with it -- we just know that this is no guarantee of what happened. A senator is talking about. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u85	A respectable president. If me and what. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur of Þórðarson disagrees on the basics of whether this has been a national failure or not, I don't think we will do exactly two minutes to resolve these differing views. There is no other way to call it when the Federal Bank becomes unrequired, all the business banks of the country fail, the loan lines in foreign lands are closed, and there is a danger that power, drugs, and other basic needs of the country cannot be obtained. Is this an experience that we need to learn from? Yes, indeed, there must be little or no direct effort to learn from that experience, but just as it prevents political interference from deciding in what way the investment banks and businesses of the country will be sold. That's why we're discussing this. That in itself is no more complicated. The length of the arm may have been more demanding and assured, and the length of the arm could well have been right. A senator alone does not guarantee that politics will not get his hands on this process, but it is certainly an effort to do so. If the senator wants to strengthen the bank office and ensure that politics cannot interfere with political affairs, I support him in all that effort, not just putting the Agency down and inserting it into the Ministry of Government Counselers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u86	A respectable president. I'm not going to go to the debate about the nation's expense of the global banking system; actually, it was very great, but it now seems that he was much less than expected. Let's not get into it. We are to learn from that experience without any doubt. Hv. A senator comes up here and has a bill that includes the various processes of how people come to the subject, but he knows, as it is, that banks can be sold only by General decision. In fact, if the bill is agreed as well, the other and these professional members will be expected to join in such a process, if it is taken into account. It's just a whole different thing. Hv. A senator supported the last government, saying that he does not want political interference with the banks. Why did he support his last government? Why did it come anyway? The senator didn't say, "Hey, here you are taking the SKef, the Byr and that giant bank -- in fact, the loss of SKef was over 20 billion by the bank crash - and you've got political interference, you've got it in the bank office? There was no transparency there, no more than when the Lands Bank sold a lot of companies, there was no transparency in it. Why did it come anyway? If a senator has such strong conviction in this matter, would he not? He didn't say anything. I don't remember the many times I took these matters up to the point. A senator would have come in and deposed that government. It is not as if this institution had been able to stop the last government from involving political interests in financial institutions or from doing it. Councilmen who supported her, as it were. paritaprevir Helgi, that's what I'm Hjörvar about. He sees this fine speech that he thought to explain why he let it continue during his last term without saying anything. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u87	A respectable president. Here goes again, that's what I'm talking about. A senator has suggested that there is criticism during the last terms that actually involve, even if it was correct and no comment was made on the senator's lawsuit, a very strong argument for not only maintaining the bank office but also a great deal of emphasis because it still needs a stronger wall between the political and investment banks of the country. I think there might be a perfectly valid view. At least we need to start by holding on to what we have, which is the Bank Office. It ensures at least that the secretary of finance can only take part in what the Bank Office does in public, i.e. to reveal it to two important members of the Parliament and present it in a public discussion. He cannot thus have an abnormal political involvement in back rooms either by the business of financial companies or by the handling of property parts. [[Up front.]] It's important to hold on and it sounds like it's loud. A senator also feels that it is important to promote this separation, to trust these barriers between him and him that he feels that they have not maintained enough during their last term. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u88	Come on, come
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u89	So without a material discussion about it, that's all there is to support not making this bill legal. [[Come on, come ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u90	A respectable president. In the end of this discussion, I wanted to briefly review some of the things that I feel are left behind. First, I restate on what has been stated earlier in the discussion that I agree on the bill's indicators to the legal committee and accept the requirement for the case to be referred to by the Economic and Business Committee. Therefore, there is no need to alter the discussion of this institution and its activities at the council. On the one hand, the scale of the bill has grown brighter and brighter. There is no discussion in a paper with the bill that banking agencies are all over Europe and that there are no plans to destroy them. There's no discussion about that. Second, there is no discussion of how loyalty will be maintained after the change. It is said that the same financial personnel should not supervise financial markets or take part in banks. When, for that reason, it is clear that there will be no more money for the change, since there are already two employees in the situation and there can be no less than two members in the Ministry of Economic Affairs for the change. However, there is no comment on the basis of decisions made in bank meetings for the establishment of the State from now on. The need for arm length is so much greater, considering that the Ministry of finance has been submitted to the government and the financial monitoring authority. When the bank office was set up, it was done despite the order of the ministry and the owner's role in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, so it was being tried to displace politics further and carried out by creating an independent bank office. To lay it down and intend to let the Ministry of finance be the totalitarians of the banking system, both regulars and owners, is a massive return and return to the worst we saw in the past decades, offering back an unidentified political and financial level. It is also interesting to note that there is no discussion in the bill on the basis of basic management of the property section, how trust in the Ministry will be provided, and neither is there any basis for what view should be based on decision making. Today, for example, the Bank Management Board has twice paid a vote for the promotion of the election. She's never paid votes with a bonus. V.E.G. The secretary of finance came the other day with a bill into the council to open up completely on bonuses in the financial system, even so that employees of financial monitoring units should be able to obtain bonuses. How's it going to be? The secretary of finance uses the new power at the next stock conference? Will he support the application of a buyer himself for a bill, if we now assume that the council will agree with this thoughtless bill of his, how will he use his power as a representative of the public interest system on the other side when it comes to decisions at the main corporate meetings? How will the minister who has become, according to the law we agreed on here last year, the chairman of a financial arena to pressure more money from banks? Is it possible to play together, to be the chairman of a financial tenure, and to ensure the currency of the financial system and, on the other hand, the calling for more money? You see, when you look at things that way there's no benefit in this bill, there's no way to reduce staff, there's no savings, efficiency will be reduced in the system. It is a special advantage that a microorganism that has no more employees than this should have been achieved in its role as well as it really is. It is entirely impossible to do so by reason of the highest power. The minister of what system is to be replaced, how the length between the political power and the financial system will be secured, and that is why we have an unsolved problem, and therefore it is totally inappropriate to accept the bill as presented here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u91	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I'd like to direct an inquiry to the former chief. Minister of the government during the last term, because two former seniors. Ministers here have addressed neither of them could answer the question that I raised to them. On August 18, 2009, the government's banking department was founded. The Kingdom owned a bank until November 2009 when the State agreed with the demands that 87% of them be obtained. And U.S. Bank was in exactly the same manner owned by the State until October 2009, when the next agreement with demands are reached. Hv. paritaprevir The Árni Páll Árnason was for a time a minister of economic and business affairs in the government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir. I'd like to ask him why he believes that these large cases of these two banks were not in the custody of state banking at the time when the demanding rulers were handed over to the banks. Why didn't the Bank Office handle these matters? I'd like to ask you, too. A senator who was then a minister of the economy and business: Where and with which of the financial sector the Bank Management Board has discussed and it is shown that the results have been successful?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u92	A respectable president. Despite the fact that I haven't been a minister of the economy and commerce since then. A senator's questions are addressed to me, and I am both kindly and obliged to correct certain misunderstandings that have been raised in discussions about these matters. The bank owner was transferred to the state's Bankament following a debt exchange with demandsors and thus made a financial account. This happened in the case of Arion's bank, in the case of Glimtion. The reason that ZKef and Byr were never transferred was that bank accounts were never reached. As a result, they were serving both Goth and Anion Bank, or both Iceland's Bank and Anion Bank, as had been the case since the disaster and the holding of the bank until the end of the year 2009. The banking business has been very effective. For example, it is undisputed and undisputed that we have already recovered more than 40% of the total 140 billion of our original budget for financial businesses. That's not true. A senator said and seemed there, unfortunately, to chase after the death valves from some of the bank institutions. The two big banks were never handed over to demands, the state released their money, and it was the demands themselves that paid back them back. However, the government paid up to the full with one bank, the Lands Bank. So when you look at the bank business of the county, including its policy of not selling property right away, but when you look at the quality of your banks, you've achieved significant results, and the good thing is that you're saying you're in hand with 40% of this original donation without selling a single portion in the banks.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u93	A respectable president. I asked why. Senator why the Bank Office would not have been assigned to negotiate with the demanding workers. [[Contracting with the demanding workers?]] Why was it not removed from the political authority in that case and the banking office that had been appointed to do that work? If the bank was to be established in that case, why was it to be trusted, not to negotiate with the demands, but to the politicians? Where was the length of that assignment? I'd appreciate it if I did. A senator might at least reflect on why he was not doing so. Then, for a short time, I want to pray. A member of the Parliament to compare with the need to make recommendations to the secretary of finance on whether and when property items are taken for sale and what is now mentioned in this bill. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u94	A respectable president. I just haven't heard the idea in the past that it was considered a deal to the Bankisitans. I don't think that it ever came into mind at the time, although it was a fundamental debt of the State, and it was an enormous amount of government spending. The idea of an arm length from the political power has never been centered on handing over to some government officials the right to make decisions on the basics and existence of the nation's questions, such as what we would have to pay to foreign demands. To me, it was quite absurd to hide such a project from the Bureau. The reason for the long - term concept is to ensure the length of political power from the commercial world in Iceland. That's what's so important, and it's not politics to decide which company lives and which company dies. That's why such companies and institutions have been set up all over Europe, and that's why they're still a people all over Europe, but it's only in Iceland for some reason that they want to be removed. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u95	A respectable president. I like it. A senator skates quite light through this discussion. He mentioned a bonus. Hv. A senator knows we have a bill for a bonus. It's not that a financial minister can set a bonus, we're discussing it. This is much lower than the roof of the EU, but I can totally believe that buyers are a very dangerous tool in the banks, let's not discuss it here. But I don't understand why it's all about the highest level. Secretary of finance for the intention of having some such authority in their hands. He won't get it, it's a law bill available to the council. Hv. A senator was in the last government, and he himself foretold it. A panel on the air that when it came to SKef and Byr-- and he called them zobie Bank, and I think it was right at the moment. A senator - it was all in the Ministry of finance, despite the legal rights of property in the Bank Office. He also knows because they're talking about it, without me trying to downplay the good staff that's in the Bank County, it doesn't even occur to me for one second, it was another staff then, it was a bit of a staff choice, that they proposed the future of the savings fund system. She was introduced to the hospital. Business committee. Last government didn't do anything by it. Then come the same people who were in the last government, talking about how wonderful it is to have this institution, because it guarantees a long arm. Experience just shows us everything else. Hv. A senator must then inform us why we set up this institution, why we set up these laws on the Agency, and why men would not do it when they were convenient.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u96	A respectable president. I may have to spell it out and say clearly that it's the highest. The secretary of finance has provided a bill that allows bonuses with certain conditions. If it's legal, banks will be allowed to pay that amount. What, then, is the position he will take because he will take the stock of a shareholder meeting? That's what I'm referring to. I hope, of course. A senator that I am able to bring the reason for his party and is pleased to hear his support in the matter of holding and preventing this bonus suit. We're working on a financial and business committee. I hope we can get together on the Committee to be nothing to make a bonus and thank you. In this regard, a member of the body of elders who is a member of the body of elders who is a member of the body of elders who is a member of the body of elders is a member of the body of elders. However, if the prime minister remains under law, he will be granted authority to determine the basis for which he intends to lay the basis for these meetings and he has not explained how he will exercise that authority. I explained earlier about Mr. SpKef and the simple fact that these institutions were never funded by the State. That's why I called them zobie banks. I made it a requirement, both as a social minister and as a minister of the economy and as a business minister, to hurry up as if it could be possible with the rest of these institutions so that they could provide companies and people with solutions such as other financial institutions. Eventually, it became clear that the demands for restoration of these phenomena could not be negotiated. A senator knows. They never went into Bank County because there had never been an agreement with requirements for the founding of interest accounts. Just as Gothic and Anion Bank never entered the Bank County until it was agreed with the requirements for the founding economy. Hv. A senator can try as many of his companions are doing in the dirt pools and try to argue that there is something different in there... [[The president calls.]] There is all this debt exchange, and in this bill, there is a special confirmation that this function was handled correctly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u97	A respectable president. Hv. A senator doesn't feel well when I ask him about these matters, as indicated in his language, and I'm not going to repeat them. However, it is true that the role of the Bank Office should make proposals for further financial funding on the basis of the Agency's role and objectives. And it was now no less than a special bank established on the basis of Keflavík's Satisfaction Fund. It also says that there were suggestions from the Bank Office, we received them on the committee, how to behave in the savings system, and they were not followed. It is also stated in the Bank Office's annual report that they felt that they were accepting the SKef and Byr. It wasn't done. The decision was decided, and it was not a business minister who held it, the secretary of finance holding it for a very long time. There was a broken law about self-calculation, no matter whether the Bank Office was there or not. [[The president calls.]] Sadly, the people who did these fine jobs are no longer in the Bank Office.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u98	A respectable president. There was no agreement with the demands in SKef and Byr on debt, and thus there was no peace in their founding interest accounts. Therefore, the object was never transferred to the State Bank Office. I don't know how many times to repeat this, it's nothing more complicated than this. Before long, however, I wondered how the discussion of debt between the fallen banks is always approaching, so it is good to see in the highest bill. Secretary of finance is certain to confirm what has been often claimed. Their report says: It was never really the property and debt that were transferred from the old banks to the new, so it means that the state, with its own financial contributions, had 81%, 5%, and 13% in the new banks in connection with the restoration of business banks after the collapse, rather than the actual sale of stocks. Then let me pray. legislators to give up the insurrections that always follow up on these matters and follow the example and guidance provided from the highest source. Secretary of finance in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u99	Mr. President. It has been observed in this discussion that it is not normal to have a share of the state's financial capital and financial control at the same time. I'd like to hear some attitude. The senator's concern is that with this bill, these proceedings are being brought into custody to a minister, a case prepared from a minister to an independent agency, the Bankisladen, under independent control. If saving money has been spent, it seems that there is not much savings in the entire context, perhaps 40 to 50 million. K. In turn, financial companies were making up $2,250,300 billion. It was said that it might be added to the three standards of the Ministry and, of course, the advisory committee. See what? A senator insists that in the end there will be some savings, perhaps some very little or none in the context of the section? How much is under there? The exhilarating factor is actually a factor, for it is a great setback to bring this up to the secretary of finance at a time and to make all of these things suspicious. So, what's the work on this bill? It also seems to contradict the will of the team of fellow workers. At the feminist party council, the people concluded that it was not time to put down the State Bankisit; it would have fulfilled its purpose. The bill suggested selling up to 30% shares in the Lands Bank as well as protests at the convention of the candidates that this should not be done. I'd like to hear some thoughts. A senator has a problem with what people are going to do to make this issue really a problem with his own team of cooperation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u100	A respectable president. I have to say, as it is, I don't understand the financial foundations laid for cost evaluation. It refers to the potential for saving and the cost of which today is 90 to 1,100 million. K. I can go down to 50. The cost of banking is now 50 million. K. Based on the current staff management board and I don't see how there is anything to reduce the number of employees can be made. On the contrary, this change will require a high level of expertise that is not expected anywhere because there will be a need to develop expertise in these members of the Ministry. According to the bill itself, it is recognized that they are not allowed to do anything else within the Ministry. They are not allowed to touch financial management. They must devote themselves completely to this assignment, so there is no evidence that money can be saved. It doesn't work when you read the bill to the end. Of course, what I've warned you about the link between having control power and the stock in the same department is the examples we have. This has always been very bad and has always led to disaster. I've shared with the House of Congress my personal history as the last representative of the state of the Cities of the Bank. It was very strange to be elected by the Ministry of Business and then came the head of the Ministry of Business and then came to the wall of the stock and departments with the bank and made comments on how we made decisions because they were not at peace with our legal records. It was a very strange situation, and I don't wish anyone in the management of a financial company to be in that position. We should be grown up to think that such things are good. I don't understand how people can put up such a bill in 2015 and pretend that nothing has happened in the development of a government-like enterprise over the last 80 years and the history of cohesive politics and financial systems in Iceland is just to be followed, that's to start the game again. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u101	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. A advisory committee should now be established and put down a selection committee to recommend a financial directive. Now it's the advisory committee that's supposed to bring some appointments to the board, so the process is being shortened. In view of this issue, what authority does the advisory committee have? A senator? There is no comment on channels or communications between them or on how the matter is handled and unclear about the qualifications for the advisory committee, whether they are weaker than those made for the independent administration of the Bank Office. What's the matter? A senator of the credibility of this process?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u102	A respectable president. I'll share my concerns with you. A senator in this regard. Of course, there is a problem with this government that just having the formal right ways, one is how they are treated. We have quite a terrible example from the last summer at the highest level. The secretary of finance thought of creating a selection committee for a command at the bank manager's position and making her president of the city's office in Reykjavík, who had no knowledge of the language fields to which the Office of the Bank bowed. There was a man who met certain formal qualifications, but my good God, had no insight into the physical field that was being chosen to govern. One is that we have formal demands; another is to use them properly. I have no faith in the fact that as unsolved demands as appropriate for these advisory committees, they will be responsible for controlling the Supreme Court. A minister in applying his power to the ball and hollow as he pleases.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u103	A respectable president. I think I have participated in this discussion since she began. The discussion has been long and strict about a language that is not large in nature. I've been listening for reason. Congress officials are at a position of resistance to filing a filibuster on this matter. [[Up front.]] I had something to do with what I had to do. Councilmen by mentioning that they were in need of speech. It's just gonna have to be. I want to draw attention to the fact that I have already asked all former Ministers from the last government who have come up here why, in all likelihood, they were here with large financial institutions in business and did not have them under this professional bank county. No objective answers have been received. [[Foreground on: Yes, yes.]] And to come here and argue that institutions that were fully competitive in a financial market have not been fully financed and that it was only okay to keep them in the Ministry of finance, the argument that neither is water. I call attention to this, and it says in a report on the savings fund that the last government went against any advice, whether from Matts Josefssyni, Arnór Sighvatsson of the Federal Bank, the World Bank, or all the people involved. The government had a special agency to secure the political length from financial markets, and it is totally clear, no matter what the small institution, it does not guarantee it. It is also clear that the last government did not comply with the proposals that came from this institution when it came to the future of the savings system. It's all there is to it. Here, people downplay the expertise of the Kingdom Hall, which is much bigger. I don't know why that is. It is forgotten that this bill takes exactly the goal of wearing an arm's arm and ensures that, while it is an arrangement, those who sit in bank councils are qualified for people. For example, people forget that everyone can make an offer and apply for themselves just as he is now, but this would be done in a much more practical way. Most of the time, though it has to be said that today the discussion has been much better, much better, yet it has gone out of the way that men should be careful and think very serious things to them. It has to be said, as it is, that the discussion here prior to the weekend had become quite serious at the time. However, when contrasting with the last terms of the last term, members of the government are suddenly so closely linked with arm trust and professional practices, why they took part in the contrary. I don't think any agency, no arrangement can prevent the abuse of power. I'm afraid that's not possible. If it were possible, I think we should take such an arrangement tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u104	You can naturally limit it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u105	What a fine example of a start with good promises but of going another way that has become famous! Hence, when we are reviewing this bill, it is important that we do so in a way that brings us to the desired goal. At any rate, it has been referred to by members of the council. If we do so, we will be successful. Then it is important that the Council provide the necessary support for the Commission, whether during this term, the next, or the next. It's very important. However, I regret to see men skate through the subject of the bill as it has been done, speak here, and even claim that if it is approved, all things will go to the top of the desk. Minister and he can only do what he wants to do. All right, everybody. Councilmen who thus spoke know that there is a long road from which, in fact, there is no support.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u106	A respectable president. I haven't wanted to extend this discussion, but I must come up here and answer my speech. Senator. First, it is not surprising that according to the bill, these cases will go to the desk at the highest. Minister because that's what it's like. V.E.G. The Minister is responsible for all the matters provided in his office, and he has the legal right to all the personnel of the Ministry and the Department is to enter the case. There is no way to deny the responsibility of the highest. Minister has everything that will be decided because everything that will be decided on property in banks, on the interest pay of individual banks, etc., by his representatives at the stockholders' meetings will be met and decided upon by his authority. That's the board of directors of Iceland. On the one hand, I have no doubt about the fine skills of Kingdom Halls. They just have no knowledge of the sale of property items in banks, and they have no basis for determining, for example, whether it is better to stress the interest of banks and take it out over a longer period, as the Bank Board has decided to do with great success in recent years or to sell immediately. These are decisions that require a great deal of specialized knowledge to make. It leads back to the conclusion: If you're going to build a knowledge of this in your Kingdom Halls, it's going to cost a lot more than the expected amount of money from this bill. Finally, about a first question. A senator on the property in the banks. I moved in as both economic and business minister and social minister repeated speeches where I called out to be first resolved by the recovery of SpKef and Byr. Hv. A senator can look it up. Likely, few others have gone as hard as they were to attack. However, it was always clear that these assets would never be treated in the Bank County until the institutions of the budget were developed as if it were peace, as in the case of the old bank accounts. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It was exactly the methodology that was always there. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u107	A respectable president. There was nothing natural about the way SKef and Byr were handled, nothing. I know these matters well because I was in trouble. Business committee for the entire last term and followed closely. It speaks of transparency. There was no transparency there, nothing, no more than when the Landsbana dedicated a certain firm during the last term. The price of sale has not yet been given. I know exactly how it went to get answers to questions about SKef and Byr during the last term. There was nothing natural about it. I was with the bank office's representatives and asked about it when they put in their annual report that they should take over the holding parts of SpKef and Byr. SpKef and Byr were in a bullshit competition, and they did not meet their own financial proportions during the last term. It's all set up in a research report on the savings fund. There was nothing natural about it. People can talk about it as they want, but there was nothing natural about it, nothing. If, for example, men had taken the way that was done with the Sisun Fund of Myland, and all experts pointed to them, we would not have lost more than 21 billion, as they concluded. A respectable president. People always talk here like the government's Bankiscation Act means it's in charge of everything. Why don't they just look at 4. "Br., about the projects? The whole thing is going to work out with some suggestions for the Minister. [[Take the initiative?]] That's what it's all about. You have to read the bill on the Bank County and read the existing bill. Then consider how this has been done. When it comes to these things, it doesn't mean to bring some ghost stories in the sun. No one has forgotten what was going on until the last term.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u108	A respectable president. You can agree with that. A senator, of course, was not exemplary in having an unfashionable company like Byr and SpKef on the market. To that end, I gave many talks and likely few have criticized it as much as I did during my last term. But it's not the government's banking business. There is no reason to put down the government's Bankiscation because they did not give her enough work during the last term. That's the most noble thought I've ever heard in this room. Hv. A senator must also understand the facts regarding the Bank County. She's the one who decides for herself how she votes, e.g. for bonuses and a productive remuneration system. It has twice paid a vote for the promotion of the constitution, not at the request of a minister, but because it is in accordance with the tenant policy set in a transparent fashion and by the presence of all categories. V.E.G. The minister is going to take it out of the way. There is no comment in the bill on how decisions will be made regarding the application of the State's authority at stockholder meetings. If, for example, the bill now available for the council, the bill on the proposals, remains unchanged, how will the votes of the state be applied to stockholders? Will there be any support for making a petitioning system in that bank or not? That's a basic question. That's not a word of it in this bill. A respectable president. The harmful union of the Icelandic government and the financial system that undermined everything good in modern society for decades is something we should not reinvent.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u109	A respectable president. Bank management is to monitor and enforce government policy, exactly what has been expected in this bill, i.e. that those in the bank will carry out government policy. That is where the action will take place. A senator talked about it. I don't understand the outback that I'm critical of the Bank County. I was criticizing the last government. Is there anything vague about that, Mr. Honorable President? Haven't I said that enough in this discussion and the entire last term? I'm not messing with the government's employees, it doesn't even occur to me for a second. All I could think of was the practical suggestions that were not followed. I was aware that they had, of course, not now operate in the Bank County. I've seen nothing else of what I've heard from the bank County's present employees, fine people who are doing their best work and are making good use of it. I was criticizing the last government. Hv. A senator knows who he is, and I know why. Elders who have spoken here also know, such as why. A senator put it so penniless that it was not exemplary to have an unfunded financial enterprise on the market. ▪ Not exemplary is a very modest expression of a very serious item that cost enormous sums of billions of dollars for taxpayers. I know exactly what to do. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. When it was recorded, it was I who did it and without going anywhere else to be appreciated. Then I think I've criticized it a little bit more along with some others in the government side than they were in the board of directors. What I'm saying is that although the Bank Office was there with all these noble goals, it was possible. You see, there is no agency that ensures that humans do not exercise power. The banking board certainly won't. In word, we agree on our goals. Then let us examine this bill and see how we can reach goals we agree on. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u110	Mr. President. I'm thinking about getting a little something off of it at whatever. Each of these proposals was made by a member of the Bankander, who was never followed. One senator said that it led to a further 21 billion years. loss. I have no idea that it was in any way different from the penalty laws against the Keflavík Savings Fund or Byr. According to the emergency law, when a person had to take action on the basis of the emergency law to set up a new agency to receive property and commitment from someone else who had disappeared, and if it was not so decided that he was going directly to another functional financial agency, such an organization was set up around the savings fund just as was done around the banks. In the case of Byr and the Savings Fund of Keflavík, they never did so because they went bankrupt. There was never any agreement with the requirements for financing new units. A new unity was never set up, so they never came to Bank County. That is why I would like to ask: What suggestions were offered and not followed by the Bank Office?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u111	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for providing objective and good questions. The difference between me and what. A senator is that I'm going to answer them. I asked why. Some critical questions were raised earlier, and he decided not to answer them entirely and point them out to others altogether. [[Up front.]] However, I'm going to answer that these are good questions and reasonable questions that he wants them to know. It's two cases. On one hand, about SKef and Byr, I mentioned to the party, I'm not referring to Bank County, I'm referring to Mats Josefsson, the Secret Bank, the Ministry of finance, the International Cash Fund, and other people who said there was no hope in this savings fund, especially the Cheflavour Savings. Yet, they were continued, as it were. paritaprevir The Árni Páll's Árnason years mentioned, ill - financed. They did not even meet their own financial ratios, which is completely incomprehensible, since it was observed from February and March. As a result, they extended their problems even further. Then, of course, there was a huge cost of business, the property was sour, and so on. There is no doubt that these matters were to be addressed immediately. This does not directly reverse the proposal of the Bank County, at least Not the one we saw. The proposals of the Bank Office that were introduced to us were: They offered suggestions on the savings system. They felt that it was hopeless to run as it is today. They had either two or three appointments to see how they could do this. In a way, first of all, they wanted to unite all the backworks and so many other parts of the country and then have a national funds and whether the third part was a mixed way. It was such things. They had considered this professional situation on the savings funds, etc. and they thought it was the only way. Nothing was done with this, as we both know.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u112	Mr. President. That was a very informative answer. It turns out that the opposition to the harsh criticism is imminent. A member of the Bank Office has made it clear that the two institutions were not very effective because its proposals were not followed - at this point. A senator had been at the top of his mind. That is for this very reason, because they were bankrupt, which they didn't go over to the bank office. [[Up front.]] Let us consider some of the other savings as well. This was so that through the Bank of Savings the state had high standards for the savings fund, i.e. There was a requirement for one of five large savings, and this resulted in the possession of the State on the savings. And when the steward had finished his goods in the savings, which the Councilman had obtained through the great bond of love for the Bank and the Secret Bank, five of them passed over to the bank of Bank. There were others who simply could not be right. I remind you of the Springs, I remind you of these two, but there were other banking institutions that had requirements and that had a large share of them. I mention, for example. Granddad. The power isn't in Bank County. It's a whole other institution that's gonna take it. That's what I wanted to say to you. A senator because I believe he's been shooting here not only on slippery ice but on the ceilings alone all day long. It is true to recall, too, that when the Bank County bill was first submitted in his day, it was not mentioned in savings. The bank business was expected to operate primarily with the banks, so that it is now referred to here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u113	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u114	A respectable president. It is absolutely hopeless to correct any misinformation made in the case of the day. Senator. First of all, they were not out of their heads, SpKef and Byr. They were kept alive, insurrections, collections of deposits, and costs against expert advice. [[It's just...]] I got it. I got it. A senator to listen to. If he does not want to listen, I encourage him to read the research committee report on the savings fund. If he doesn't want to read it, I encourage him to read the book written by Dr. Hersir Sigurgeirsson and Dr. Ásgeir Jónsson on SKef. It is a brief reading in which everything is combined. Well, then I guess that makes sense. There was a senator on what was going on. On the contrary to the advice of experts, the Ministry of finance, i.e. The last government, to keep alive in these institutions. Who got the check for that? The people of the country. The cost of SKef was 21 billion. Why is that? A senator climbing that I'm criticizing the Banks? I'm criticizing the last government, not the Bank County. I'm saying it's no good to have the Bank Office when we have a government like the last one that can go past the Bank Office as she did. I checked that the Bank Management Board offered some suggestions on what to do with this savings fund. And just to remember it, because I know why. A senator does not always have long - term memory, but he has short - term memory, then one of the savings that was taken into a particular situation that was arranged a few days ago, i.e. Vester's savings fund. This is what Bank County members warned of. Those who made proposals for the future role of the savings fund as the last of the highest. Government - and I'm criticizing her so that it's completely clear - didn't take notice. I'm not criticizing the excellent staff that's in the Bank County, either before or now. I'm criticizing the last government and the highest. Ministers and former management. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u115	Mr. President. If the bill is approved and turned to law it will happen to the government banking office - it has been taking over the state property of the banks for the past six years and all the expertise is there in the house. They actually have it in their arms, and they're in the middle of it. There is a privatization ahead, i.e. sales of the property of people in the Bank County have been in their arms. This legal bill is now to say that the professional with the expertise that has been carrying it on his hand and in his arms for six years should extend this to the Ministry Committee, which is then in the custody of a minister. What is the purpose of this? Where does this show in the report with the bill what the point is? Yeah, it saves money. That'll save about 40,650 million. every year. But look at how much of the money or property the Bank Management Board and this advisory committee are involved. It's 1 in 6 grand. This is a six thousand times lower amount, which is this annual salary and also what they are working on. And what if this new advisory committee does not have as much expertise as the Bank Office has now acquired for six years? How much must she and the workers lose in the river? How much more is there to lose, how much worse decisions do they have to make about the privatization so that the cost will be far greater than having the people who have been holding it in their arms for six years? This is not a good government, and this may cost much more than any human would like to deny that the Bank Office benefits beyond what the Ministry Committee considers. Note, it's the Ministry, the Ministry of finance that costs this myself. Then the question is, they have a bill on how to move the management of the government's holdings of $2,250,300 billion, into the Ministry, and it itself costs the cost. We here at the Council don't have the opportunity to have an independent cost assessment of it. Many have said in this discussion that maybe this is not even the savings because there are people in the Ministry who have to take over these balls. Just so we understand these figures, these figures mean that these are really valuables, state property in banks at three new Land Hospitals, and they are to be delivered from the staff that has been doing this for six years, just for the privatization of the Ministry Committee, which is, in fact, a member of the Minister. What do I mean when I say, "Really, the Minister's prisoner?" According to the government's law on the banking business, which is now to be laid down, according to the President's permission: ▪ All major decisions must be written under the administration for approval or demonstration. The Council of Bankisitation can accept or deny major decisions from a minister, but he can, in exceptional cases, push them through, and then he will have to do so. He is, in effect, completely in control of how these assets are treated, the value of three new Land Hospitals, if the bill is approved. He can ride the horses out of the river as he pleases. But then you're told, no, that's not entirely true, he can't quite do it his way. Yes, he really can. On the other hand, he has to check things for the other party, but at the end he decides, as clearly indicated in the bill, i.e. the decision on the sale and its property. With the permission of the president, the minister may take his own initiative to decide to initiate the sale of the individual financial assets of the State. True, he needs to make a report and present the committee committee committees, seek counsel from the consulting committee, and seek out comments from the Federal Bank. The minister's report needs to include certain items, and in the material of the report, it must be mentioned by Generalis to allow sufficient time to make comments, comments. After the suitable deadline, which does not appear to be a long-term, so it is a minister himself who will no doubt decide, the ◯Schick minister will decide whether or not the sale therapy of the property part will be initiated according to the materials of the report. The minister's decision may change the individual aspects of the planned sale regimen, including taking into account the comments made by the General Fundament Committee but do not have to do so, can make changes in all of this. The minister has this completely in his hand. If the bill is approved and the professionals who have been riding the horse in the middle of the Bank County will hand over the value of three new Land Hospitals to the secretary's consulting committee, then the minister can ride this horse out of the river exactly as he wants. True, he has to put things ahead of people, but he's in charge, that's not a good government either. So it's not a good bill. I will pay a great deal of caution that it will be approved here at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u116	A respectable president. I'd like to take note of this, because they speak of the knowledge that has been built up in the bank office for six years, that the same people have not been there all that time, that is a long way from it, a very long way from it, both in the case of rulers and persons. Knowledge will not be wiped out, it is not that these persons will be no longer available, and that knowledge, of course, can be taken advantage of if there is a will. Then I would also like to draw attention to the fact that in the bill there are various processes expected. It is not a decision to privatize the banks, but if it did, it would not matter whether we had the Bank County or not, because we would have to go through very much Pross, and with full respect for the fine people there, it would not be enough. So you can't talk, as I feel it. A senator is making arrangements that this is the right of the Ministers. Hv. A senator has read the bill, he knows it's not right, the council has to decide for sure the council will have to... [[Prepped in, "Mr. Secretary... "]] [[Foreground on: No.]] [[Up front.]] I'm just gonna refer to the constitution. No cabinet minister can sell anything from government property except the permission of the council to do so. [[Up front.]] A respectable president. That's why we'll put it to work, including the law of the law. of 6. .. that we do this on a house, we can't sell an apartment unless it's set up in budgets. In this case it is assumed that a certain process is set and if we are going to sell these big assets, a serious discussion must be made, and the assistance of experts who know best both within the country and outside is needed. These things have gone over and over. in the bill, but we're not making the decision to sell the banks now. That's a long road away.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u117	Mr. President. The decision has been made to sell these property items in the banks and has been discussed in this council hall. What is being decided here is who can really determine whether it should take the initiative in the sales process, when to start it, and there will be a minister. Once the other parties have been provided for, for example. This new advisory committee, Iceland's Secret Bank, named Generals, shall serve as Minister of Ministers, according to Article 8. determine whether or not the sale therapy of the possession part will be initiated according to the content of the report. Mr. Secretary has this authority. In case of a moment. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur of Þór Þórðarson says that this principle in the bill does not mean it, although it clearly states here that a minister can decide whether or not the sale of his property will be initiated according to the material of the report, I would like to hear it, we must have a perfunctory discussion here. Hv. paritaprevir Applying any articles in which the law should influence the development of a minister, as is stated below, the decision should be made to determine whether the sale of the property part will be initiated in accordance with the content of the report.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u118	A respectable president. What I'm saying is that it's not like that. If we assume that we would fully accept the bill as it is today, and of course we need to accept this aspect of the matter as well, it is not that we are starting some Pross, since it is completely premeditated how a minister is holding matters. [[Up front.]] That's what's been discussed here, a respectable president, because. A senator calls it not random, that is how the discussion has been discussed. The discussion has been in that place here, and I've had a bad feeling. A senator agrees, and I'm sorry, that we have an organization that makes things look amazingly professional, and politics can't come up with them or on the other hand, if we agree to this bill and that the law has just come to the minister's table that will be able, without asking a king or a priest, to abandon it. But this has to be done before council committees, etc. If there's something in this process that's not good enough, we just have to go over it, that's what the game's done. But as the situation is right now, we have the financial resources to sell the assets and the Bank Office can only offer suggestions on how to manage it. That's the arrangement now. The budget has been approved and has long been selling property and all that the Bank Office can do is suggest how to do so. That's the situation right now. It is now being replaced by another process and the nature of a case, as indicated above, a long prosness must be started before it is performed. If they don't think it's good enough, we'll go over it, but let's not talk about it as if things are somehow completely different from they are. The Parliament must always agree with the legislation on selling property, even if there is a bank agency, the Bank Office has no other authority but a suggestion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u119	The banking board has more than that. It can deny the decision of a minister. It can agree to deny the decisions made by the Minister, at any rate in the Bank County Act, if I am not wronging them, it is clearly stated in the law that all major decisions should be written under the rule of approved or denied.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u120	To make suggestions for a minister... Article four.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u121	2.g. of control. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] So at least they can reject a decision. I'm not saying that the Bank Management Board is the greatest battle in the world, on the other hand, in contrast with a consulting committee, a little farther away from the Minister, although not completely independent from him. The banking board has been in operation all this time, and of course professional knowledge has been collected there, and we all know that it is supposed to sell the property of the state in these banks. Do we not want to try to do it professionally and with those who have been working on these things? I find it very risky to hand over the value of three new Hospitals and put into the hands of a consulting committee that has not been treated with these items before when we know they're supposed to sell their assets. I think it's very risky, too, that the Minister is capable of his alone, that's what is being authorized in these laws, set in motion this process and determine if it should be done on the grounds he makes. Yes, he is. He needs to ask both a king and a priest, but he will eventually decide. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u122	V.E.G. President. We've discussed a bill to legalize the management and sale of the government's holdings on financial funds. On January 1 of this law, if the bill is accepted, as stated in Article 13. The bill will fall from the law of the State Bank, No. 88/2009, as well as the government's sales legislation on financial assets, No. 155/2012. So there are two songs underneath this bill. The length of the arm has been discussed here. That, of course, is the second key point on the bill. I know why. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson, who spoke in his last speech, is deeply concerned about open and transparent administration. He discussed the length of his arm as well as the knowledge that exists in the bank office. I see no basis, therefore, that it cannot be guaranteed that there will be knowledge in the Ministry or Advisor Committee. I'd like to go to 4. The bill, the advisory committee, which is it. A senator does not believe that the arrangement for working properly, provided that there is a possibility of altering the arrangement set out in the Committee's Regulation and where it would be located.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u123	Mr. President. I just want this to be as far away as possible from one man's decision. The Commission's commission is a very similar order to that of the bank administration, but the qualifications are broader, and I think it's a good idea to have a high level of qualifications. We're working with so much money and so much money that we want the operation to be as professional as possible and making sure it's not just one person that in the end can just say, "This is how it's gonna be. As mentioned in my speech, a minister needs to ask, he needs to put things under a lot of help that is good, but there is no one who can stop him if he decides to go a certain way. [[Up front.]] I don't like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u124	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I'm going, by permission of the President, to refer to Article 8. The bill that says: The review of the planned sale treatment should be consulted by the advisory committee and the review should follow the report. The secretary shall also seek the information of Iceland's Office on host equality, the likely impact of sales on currency markets, currency stores, and available traffic funds. The Minister's report should include: information on the main objectives of the sale of the property part, on the method of sale and on how to prepare otherwise. This should also be generalised of the requirements and criteria that will allow the assessment of oers and their strengths. Name the Allegoris to whom? - I'm going to pray. This is where a senator notices, for his counter-representation - at least a time left to make comments on the subject. In the 3rd. This bill states that the owners' policy is public, it shall be published in public. As far as I can see, on the bill there are both arms lengths and open and transparent administrations of property assets to the limit. There may be some adjustments to the appointment of a consulting committee. But I want to do it. A senator will answer later if he believes that the arm length is not being met by an open and transparent government. Then I'm going to add one more question for a reason. A senator. A loan was needed to restore the banking system. According to a national budget, it is possible to sell the government's property in order to pay back the loans. [[The president calls.]] Got it. Is that not the natural way for a senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u125	Mr. President. I don't think the state should have banks or financial institutions at all, because they can get caught up in the pursuit of interests. For example, the government's best interests for an apartment loan fund, where the state guarantees debt are the interests of the well-being of an apartment loan fund, but at the same time it should be government interests, at all times, in the legal field of Ministers, to ensure the rightness of borrowers. There we have interests that conflict. Then the government needs to ask himself, " What interests should be in charge? ' We've seen that interest care or justice protection for borrowers has not been good enough, I've referred it to at the General Assembly many times, so the state is not to own financial institutions at all. I think it should be sold, but in the process of sale and decision-making, there has to be a lot of power distribution that I feel in that process. Looks like transparency's pretty good on the bill. Hv. In the bill, a senator mentions one thing that is that the committees of Generalis should allow time for comments to be made on the subject of this article. But what comes right after that sentence? By permission of the President: ▪ At the end of the week, according to a 4 mg dose. The secretary's decision should be made to determine whether or not the sale of the property part should be initiated according to the materials of the report. The minister may make changes in individual factors in the proposed sale regimen. Mr. Secretary in charge. I think it's true that if Bjarni is in charge, Bjarni is in charge. I think it's just a bit of his management style. I'm not sure I trust one man, no matter who he is, in order to do it completely alone and to have one man in charge. Yes, he needs to ask a king and a priest, but only he decides how to handle the sales and property of the state in the banks that study the amount that could be used to buy three new hospitals.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u126	President wants less of it. A senator is to be warned.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u127	The President has received the following program proposals and the following letters: We signed it, in accordance with 1 mgr. 77st. Conventional song, for the next meeting to be as follows: 1st The job of the Senate. 2. Electrical law (systemistical programme, EEA rules), Industrial and Business Directoring, 305 suit, 1005. It's called "System" on deck. 1091 and 1226, respectively. 1092 and 1227, 3rd. 3. Government policy on adjusting electrical lines, the management of industrial and commercial ministers, 321 cases, sector. 392 committees on deck. 973 and 986, leading committees on deck. 1228, continuation of the second. We would like this proposal to be presented for release in accordance with the above terms of engagement. Under this letter, Jón Þór Ólafsson, Katrín Júlíusdóttir, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir and Björt Ólafsdóttir. With a appeal for 1st. 77st. As a matter of fact, when a program proposal and a meeting are not presented, the program is set up and elected at the beginning of the next meeting, which will be tomorrow, and the proposal will not be scheduled.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u128	Mr. President. I recommend a synopsis proposal for the advancement of employment and society on the Southnes. Her moving men are along with the one standing here. Councilmen Páll Valur Björnsson, Lilja Rafney Magnney Magnúsdóttir Helgi Hrafn, Ostir Hannesson, Róbert Marshall, Sigríður Ingibjörg Iggadóttir Sigfússon Ingadóttir, Valgerður Bjarnadóttir Bjarnasson and Össur Skarphéðinsson. The conclusion is, by permission of the President: The General concluded to hide the government to appoint a group of five head office experts, the Ministry of Economics and Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Employment and Development, the Ministry of Education and Culture, and the Ministry of Health to implement a time-to-day strategy for promoting employment and society in Southnes. The MAH consulted with local management and provided a report with results no later than April 1, 2015. Prime Minister introduces the results of the Group's work group to the General Assembly. Mr. President. This arrangement was proposed at the council in the fall, and it is evident that the date 1 April 2015 does not work and will be expected to be changed to a committee that will address the issue on the date. This is a suggestion to achieve a work programme aimed at promoting employment and society in the South. The assessment of transporters is that it is necessary to provide a timed budget of this kind for the area where a planned future structure plan will be implemented, such as human investments and the necessary infrastructures, and how best to strengthen factors such as children's interests, education, culture, innovation, employment and social infrastructure to promote a better community for the population of the region. The ages of the population, the needs for increased service in the elderly and the health care of the region must also be taken into account. It is long time for Southnes'affairs to be handled in an organized way and a plan to strengthen the society of some 22,000 inhabitants that has experienced the past decade of severe traumas that have proved difficult to overcome. In 2006, after 55 years of age, military elimination from Keflavík Airport resulted in a turning point in commercial life in the Southnes when some 600 jobs were lost to Southnes. Despite the financial collapse, unemployment grew dramatically in the leading and the wake of the crash, which may be said to cause another shock to the region. Also, the number of inhabitants increased by less than 34% in 2000How 2009, and this large growth has been a major factor in the results of the disaster for the region. There was an increase in all five towns in the South, but most of them were in Smokey Town. There was a lot of new buildings and apartments on Ásb bridge, an area of former defense, and moved, including one, to another. students with little income. The population is truly giving greater meaning to the community on Ásbek but also calling for services of the community in a reverse proportionality to the pay of remuneration. Nursing sales continue to increase, and the financial resources of the apartment debt are higher in Southnes than in other parts of the country. In December 2010, an agent of a debtor opened a branch office in Smokejanestown to face increased pressures in the area. Despite a great decrease in unemployment, unemployment is still the most important thing in Southnes. The level of education in Southnes is also relatively lower than in other areas of the country. The 2013 Southnes Watch report shows that there was a decline in unemployment in the area from the date of the first interim report, but in March 2011, unemployment was 14.5% while it was 8.6% in the whole country. In September 2014, the unemployment rate in the region was 5.4%, with a ratio of 3.8% in the whole country. So there is still unemployment in the area, with the largest in the country. The decrease in unemployment rates may have been due to the reimbursement of a period of three years during the 2012/2013 season. In recent years the financial support of rural society has greatly increased, and many people have been coping with the bad consequences of long - term inefficiency. With plans for further shortening the period along with a work-replacement cut, as the management parties agreed in the last budget, the problem of the rural community is still increasing in this respect. It is important that all possible measures are taken to limit unemployment and to increase the effectiveness of people in a difficult situation. In this context, the serious consequences of long-term noncooperative activities can be viewed as common. Research shows that many South American children live in poverty and a greater proportion than in the whole country. Indeed, it is reasonable to assume that the financial situation of some local communities, including the largest community in which the population is about 4,500, is affected by the service of children. Most difficult of all, they can be found in places where provisions are low. Southnes have also stood out compared to other areas in which there are many microorganisms. According to government insurance agencies, in 2012 7.5% of the individuals in the age range were exposed to a very small amount of disability. In the South, the percentage in this group has increased by 1.2% over the past two years, which is currently 10%. Research has shown that long - term inefficiency is a major risk of disability, and such interaction is likely to apply in Southnes. The proportion of legal households in the country is highest in the Southnes, while 17% of the population of those over 18 years of age is severely misunderstood. In fact, over the past few years, the property of Southnes owned by the apartment loans has increased, and there have been a lot more than in other parts of the country. About 40% of the apartments owned by an apartment loan fund are on Southnes. All the majority of their possessions remain desolate. According to the report of the county official at Keflavík on the forced sale of an apartment building in the Southes 2001/2011, during the period, 840 apartments on the Southnes sold forced sales were sold, of which 595 (71%) were owned by individuals and 245 (29%) were owned by law. In 2008 there was a large increase in the forced sale, and in 2012 it had not all been drawn together. In the fall, there were a total of 101 forced sales cases on account of the individual's apartments for a postponement of payment by a federal agent. If the delay did not exist, much of these cases would be completed, probably by many with forced sale of apartments that would have been distributed mostly in 2010 and 2011. In 2012, 61 forced sales went from payment status and continued sales. The percentage of forced sales that ended with a possession went to 10.5% per year at a rate of 5.8% in 2007 to less than 43% 2011. In forced halls all over the season, most auction requests came from an apartment loan fund, more than 36%, but second most or 18% came from business banks and savings. Also, the apartment loan fund was usually the first auctioner, and second place were local societies, usually due to the lack of real estate bills. Camp loans were usually the highest bidders in apartments in the forced halls of the entire season, which accounts for 60% of apartments during the period. According to the information provided by the Substitute Bank, new numbers show that there have never been more treasures in the Southnes. Finally, in 2009, 329 companies in the South had gone bankrupt. Mr. President. This is where the situation has been drawn up in the area for the past few years. Clearly, the Southern communities have not completely recovered from the traumas that have gone over the area during the past decade or so, i.e. The disposal of the military in 2006 and the economic collapse in 2008. These events had a tremendous impact on the location of the area. The problem has increased because the population of the region grew dramatically in the years leading to economic collapse, and some financial decisions have resulted in a much weaker area. Already there is an urgent need to respond to the problem of the population of the area, where the largest community, Smokeynestown, suffers enormous financial difficulties. The problem of the local community is inevitable. Thus, transport evaluations need to be hidden from the highest level. Governments to have a national action plan agreed with the Southern government, which aims to promote the work and community of the region. A respectable president. I've covered the paper with the general proposal. Although there have been some concerns about the South's professional life, the result has often been the case. But let us not minimize the results that have been accomplished. The lack of employment has disappeared from 15% at the highest rate of about 5% in these days. Of course, no magic solutions are available, and they will not be snatched out of the rock. But driving at Leifs son of Erik is the most important thing when new jobs are counted in the area. I have focused on strengthening the level of education in Southnes and promoting innovation and the development of sceptre companies. That emphasis is not in the blue. There is no doubt that this is what will bring the Southns'long - term benefits and opportunities for the South. But we must face the problem and address it where it is. You can't overlook the fact that Southnes are weak inside. They are made clear in the low levels of education and the consequences of long - term unemployment. This makes the problem so harder to deal with, that almost the town of Smokejanes has run wild. Much hard work is ahead of newer parts of the town's financial standing. The largest rural society on Southnes is virtually without property in the intensive care committee of rural society and will not be able to use its name in investments or job construction. To that situation, you must fail, and for the purpose, the proposal is discussed here. The problem that arose as the military and the economic fall has increased because the population of the region grew very much in the years leading to economic collapse and economic hardship of the city of Rhines, resulting in an even weaker area. In this situation, I and other members of the council concluded that it is necessary for the General to hide the highest. Governments to have a time-tempered action programme agreed with South American government officials aimed at promoting employment and society in the area. When the discussion is over, I suggest that the proposal be referred to. The employment committee, but I hope this committee will ask the General Information and Education Committee and the Health Committee, as well as a review of the proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u129	V.E.G. President. I come up here to follow this case right now. paritaprevir It's a Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter. I'm with a importer on this proposal. There's two of us from the Southnes on this proposal. I also come up here to describe my great disappointment with the subjugation of other senators from the district, especially from the Southnes where there are seven, if not eight. As I say, this was a real disappointment, for the situation in Southnes has been very bad, as the senator did well in the report. Still, we are on the rise, and much good is going on there. I think it's very urgent to appoint a committee to review the situation in Southnes and map it and make a timed operation plan, especially in view of the very bad situation in the city of Smokeynes. I'm from Grindavík. It's not bad and it hasn't been, but it's mostly bad in Smokejanestown and Sandeger, because it's the two most debted rural areas in the country that might most likely need to be arranged to cross the situation and map it and see how we can respond and help these rural communities to the right course. As noted, poverty in the South is continuing and the situation is very social in many parts of the region. This is one of the things we really need to take into consideration, especially where children are involved. I'm not going to extend this much. It did not appear in this suggestion, e.g. About the nursing situation, the Southnes now lack 57 nurses. It is a very serious situation and a serious problem that must also be taken care of. That's where the state has to come in. We've got Garðving at Garðn, which needs a lot of work to do, but we'd solve a lot, and we'd take the biggest case off the ledgers. That's one of the things to look at and go through. A two-year report was published that reminds me of this situation in which the situation in Southnes was described very well. There are many things you can do. In fact, the proposal was made, immediately brought to Council 143 of the first assembly. paritaprevir The Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir Gunsdótttir of the Agency, who has never been discussed and has not been discussed. It's remarkable. Also remarkable is the fact that the proposal that was presented in the fall is discussed in this last record, which naturally means that it will certainly not receive any material discussion on a panel and on days upstairs. What a difference it would have been to have the senators on the suggestion to give her even greater weight! I think it is most reprehensible for those Southern members who are part of the management team to have not participated in this because if we remain united, they will accomplish much better and much more likely that we will be successful in improving the situation. I hope there's some material discussion and a good career, but I seriously doubt that it will happen during this council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u130	A respectable president. I would recommend a bill to correct a change in the law on the insurance policy and the operation of pension funds, No. 129/1997, with subsequent changes to holding and democracy in pension funds. I'm one of the carriers, but the case's the 1st. paritaprevir Pétur H. Blöndal, and I'm taking this case in his absence. It's not too bad to tell, in case the bill is his, and he's got a lot of heads. Senators with them on the case. I would like to encourage interest in economic and national issues and pension funds to read the paper with the bill that is extremely sophisticated and inexpensive and that is not often the same amount of information you get in such short text as it does. The bottom line of the matter is just the one, and the bill's going to work on 1st. The law adds up a new paragraph that says so, by permission of the President: A pension fund is the property of its funds. The terms or rights of the Treaty under the terms of insurance protection are owned by the rights of the Member State. A respectable president. Now someone might feel that it is probably something, but this law is not so clear in current laws, and that is why it is recommended to be written into the law. That means that each bank member votes and chooses to be in the management of financial meetings, the main meetings of the relevant pension fund, in proportion to the property he owns in each pension fund. I draw attention to that on page. 5 In the bill's report, a chapter entitled 'Hangsvings of the House's Accounts, which says that the average share of each family home in the country is about 24 million. K. In the pension fund. If this case was to be achieved, this possession would come true, but it does not now. The purpose of the bill is that each bank member will be provided with information on the value of his rights and of his underlying assets. Hv. 1st Transporter and w. Politicians believe that this would enhance people's understanding of the value of pensions, which is of course extremely important to society as a whole. The pension system is in its foundation very good, has proved to be very good and will be very good, especially when we get to the point where society's age mix has changed, which happens very fast, and then we need these funds more than we are now, so it's important that people be aware of the value of the pension system. The report has a fine story for Iceland's pension fund, not just Iceland, but from the beginning. As the report shows, there was something called master's responsibility here and still exonerates some of it, but it simply meant that a farmer could not drive a nurse into the bug that had worked for him all his years when he could no longer work. He had to provide for that for the rest of his life. This changed in nature according to the industrial revolution and social unrest that followed. The person who relied on this was the Bismarck, Germany's first chancellor, who was the founder of the first pension system. It was a flood - flow system that still exists and can be said to mean that the younger generation pays through the tax of its pension to older ones. This system is successful, given that the nations are growing, and the young generation is much more populous than the older generation. We will see the situation today in Europe, which is growing very rapidly and for example. the total number of civilians is reduced by 20 million to 2060, i.e. In the year 2060, they now number 20 million, from 80 million to 60 million. Each person sees that at that time this system will become extremely burdensome to the relevant society. We don't have a flow system, except in part we can say when it comes to the State Pension Fund, although it's not the idea of that fund, but we have a fund. That means that those in a general pension fund are dependent on the fruitage of a pension fund in which the individual is in. However, the State Department of Pension is responsible for the state, and there is a big difference between people, depending on whether they are from the public funds or from the general pensions. Today, there are examples of a pension fund in which a business partner owns his property, and it's not just his special share, but also the one with the insurance policy. Pension funds are not just about alimony, i.e. Pension pay, but it also has certain assurances, such as those that are properly used in the report. I think this has been very successful, but there is a single pension fund in which people have thought it wasn't going well, the only example of this not being successful, which is the Pension Fund of engineers. I don't mean to go in any more detail, but in that pension fund, generations have managed a little bit. We need not worry about this, considering the experiences we have that this change will reduce the maintenance of the pension fund and the lack of success. There is little evidence to this effect if we look to the experience we have in Iceland. The so - called special financial funds have this arrangement, such as the Free Pension Fund, and as far as I'm best concerned, the Icelandic Pension Fund and the General Pension Fund, while the rest of the pension funds are generally under the arrangement that those who make governments are designated on the one hand by employers and by employees, and by the natural inheritance from the time of the master's responsibility. As I mentioned earlier, what has happened? paritaprevir Pétur H. Blöndal has fought for this matter and often moved it, I think I have been with him ever since I came to the council, but he has worked tirelessly to try to pass the matter through. There have been opposition, perhaps because of unnecessary conservativeness. The nature of the matter matters that humans are cautious when it comes to changes in the pension system, but we obviously have examples of success, and there is no material or grammatic evidence that we do not accept this bill. In fact, I think it's a huge factor, and it's important, as it turns out. paritaprevir Blöndalur H. Farm, that people are aware of what the pension system is doing. And nothing makes people more conscious than knowing what property is behind what they pay in a pension fund. Surely, all of us have heard frequent criticism of the pension fund, and much of it is being taken into them, often to be very unfair criticism, as if it were something that humans would never get back from. But behind this, there are a lot of assets, an average of 24 million. K. to every home in the country. It is not only a pension that we receive our payment but also a guarantee that if the individual is exposed to disability, he will be paid from his pension fund. Even if people were aware of this, they would make all the discussion about these things better, more positive, and upbuilding. It's very important. In addition, when we think about it, we must agree that the funds placed on this duty - because it is mandatory - must be owned by a treasuremate. No one can have them but the person who pays for it. The system includes a set insurance system, and there is a good deal about it, but it does not change the rights of the individual, the ability to obtain, whether it is insurance rights or the pension rights if we speak in such a way, without any doubt the property of the relevant carer. And the more people who are aware of this, the more individuals who care about it, the more individuals who put themselves in these matters, whether it's an investment or something else, the more enlightened and better society we have. I am so happy that I have the opportunity to follow through a loaded bill anyway. paritaprevir Blöndalur H. Berlandals and suggest that this be referred to committees and hope to be fulfilled as soon as possible. It would be best if it happened this spring, but I don't know if it's going to work, but at least it would be a great help to get reviews on this subject and one day it'll go through, there's no doubt and it's my opinion sooner, the better.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u131	Mr. President. I recommend a synopsis proposal to participate in the rescue activities of the Mediterranean Sea. Transporters plus what it says here are why. Councilmen Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Resak Brynjólfsdóttir Brjolffjörður Steingrímur Sigfugótir J. Sigfússon and Árnadóttir Þóra Ájörnnadótir. The motion says so, with the permission of the president: ▪ The Council concludes to hide the government to the huge increase in Iceland's share in rescue operations in the Mediterranean Sea, with no money loans on a guardship for rescue operations, and with a plan for the hosting of refugees from the area. An essay in the Senate resolution says: According to the United Nations Refugee Organization, over 3,500 Mediterranean refugees drowned on their way from Africa to Europe in 2014. In 2015 it is feared that some 1,600 people have already died, including some 700 people on the weekend of 18,◯19. April. Most of them were refugees from Africa, many of whom were fleeing a tragic situation in Libya after the civil war in 2011. Iceland was among the nations who, as we know, supported the air raids against Libya and thus is morally responsible for the fate of refugees who cross the Mediterranean Sea. The European Union's response to the increasing water supply of refugees across the Mediterranean Sea has largely increased border monitoring and prevented refugees from crossing the Mediterranean Sea. Member States have not agreed on human policies regarding refugees in the same time as the river of refugees across the Mediterranean has increased rapidly. The results of the relationship are far too strong to gather refugees in the southern continent, hoping to send them back to their homeland. In the autumn of 2013, the Italian Navy Mare Nostrom began the operation, focusing on bringing relief to those who have suffered trauma in the Mediterranean, resulting in financial support from the European Commission. These measures ended in the fall of 2014 and took on the Triton operation of Frontex, the European border agency. Humane institutions have expressed concern about the changes in the Triton budget that existed in Mare Nostrom. Thus, only 30 miles [30 km] south of Italy, instead of the Mediterranean in the past, are affected by the increased emphasis on border surveillance. During the months that followed, conditions are likely to get much worse, as summer is the time when most people are trying to make a success of the sea. The Icelandic patrol Tyr has recently been rented out to Frontex and has saved the number of people from the ocean in connection with the Triton operation. In May, however, the ship's rent runs out, so it looks only about the removal of the ship. Thousands of refugees are expected to make an effort to cross the Mediterranean Sea in overcrowded bodies of those who have recently died, and it is evident that the need for a watchman's presence has rarely or never been greater. The Parliamentary decrees that are recommended here suggest that funds be provided for the weekend service so that patrols can carry out the Mediterranean rescue work throughout the summer without charge. Transporters of the proposal stress that this assistance will be, not on the basis of EU border control, but on the basis of humanitarian assistance and therefore in cooperation with relief organizations rather than cross-border organizations. In the context of this, the Committee of Doctors Without Borders has announced that they will organize rescue measures in the Mediterranean Sea during the summer to meet the most anticipated need. Furthermore, a plan to be developed for the arrival of refugees from war - torn countries around the Mediterranean Sea, including Syria and Libya. Iceland is under obligation to contribute to providing shelter for victims of war, as other northern nations have done in a handsome way. In this regard, it is proper to remember that Iceland has a special responsibility for the fugitives from Libya because they had been among the support groups of the air raids there in 2011. A respectable president. I have completed a review of the report with a synonym to what is recommended here and suggest that the case be referred to as treatment. State Department.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u132	V.E.G. President. I recommend a proposal for a interpretation which may be found on a threshing floor. 622, 415th matter, on the modeling of cluster policy, the General concluded to hide Iceland's government from appointing a team to be molded by public cluster policy. The policy should include an arrangement on how the public network of employment at national level cooperates with industry, research and education institutions, rural communities and other relevant stakeholders. The course should be adopted in relation to the policies and effectiveness programme of the 2014 and technical Council of Science and Technology (Eionet). The goal of a new cluster policy will be as follows: a. spending money on sectoral development and development objectively, b. to promote the cooperation of science and professional life, c. to promote innovation, d. to promote the competitiveness of companies, industry and the nation, .. to promote prosperity. By the end of 2015, the government will report to the General Assembly with the results of the work group. A respectable president. Here is a suggestion to become the most skilled clustering experts in the field to help with the development of public cluster policy. Such policies must include the overall objectives of the budgetary budget and the usefulness of clustering activities, both that have already been set in motion and what can be established. The aim is to further promote the cooperation of scientific and professional life to a greater extent that leads to and promotes innovation. In this way, you can work to further activate the energy of smaller and medium-sized enterprises, to promote their competitiveness and their multidisciplinary work, and to cooperate with them can be strengthened by both the normal sector and the sceptre. Thus, the overall objective of such policies can help us to make more efficient use of the nation's resources and to support national and international employment. Thus, such policies, a respectable president, are designed to strengthen settlements, work structure, and promote economic prosperity. Indeed, there is an example. Official policies such as this have taken place within the European Union, in Denmark, in Norway, and there are examples of successful cluster activities in this country, especially self - induced. For example, there are the sea icicle, the Icelandic euphemism, and others. Here, however, there is a lack of official policy to make full use of these devices. To this end, it is suggested that this task force be called by the most skilled experts in this field, who have experience and knowledge to carry out the ideologies and such policies. What should be kept in mind is three main points. First, consider the experiences experienced by other nations, such as those mentioned above. The Danes and the Norwegians have their course and the way they have chosen. Second, the order of the work group is not to be considered solely to the national cooperation but to take into account the potential for promoting us into international competition. Third, the setting up of available work in this area is to take into account or take into account the policies and actions of the Scientific and Technical Council. It may be said, therefore, that this proposal is directed directly to the government, where the Board of Science and Technology is at custody. Prime Minister. Then there is the shape of such official cluster policy, and this proposal is fully in harmony with the government's declaration of policy. These include promoting investment and growth in SMEs, with special emphasis on the growth of exports and innovations. In part, the Declaration says, by permission of the President: It is essential to increase production in this country, and it is essential for long-term economic growth to create an environment that encourages innovation in businesses, public business and new companies. In order to ensure the best use of funding for research and development, the government emphasizes the coordination of the network and the environment of the countries that are involved in research and development. [...] In order to work on larger development aspects of the individual, including the shape of cluster policy, the improved access of the sceptres to the parts of the company, and the simple support environment. So here, a respectable president, is proposed to use cluster policy, available knowledge, improve systematic coordination, and make most of the most efficient use of funds. This ideologies are well - known here in the country, and a positive work has been done there, as I entered earlier, and not only in the self - centered cluster work that I talked about and that we know most and have proved their worth but also in the public field. These include the Directorates and Neons Department, Ranni and New World Translation Centre, which is a leading research and development agency, which has been kept out of the educational and media of knowledge in this field and has been published a guidebook on the development and management of clusters. These include Michael Porter's definition of the ideologies that I intend to read here to those who have a vague idea of what these ideologies are going through, by permission of a president: Klas is a ◯landological cluster of linked enterprises, suppliers, service providers, employment-related enterprises and institutions in specific areas of competition and cooperation. In addition to educational projects on the 2020 application program, I have believed that at the development of cluster policy, work and ideologies can be very effective in the process of future work and fortification that has already been carried out in connection with this program. That's the job of a recognized government official in Iceland at the New Creation Center in Iceland and Rannis. However, a number of storms in Iceland have received a bronze witness from the European cluster agency. These include the international air mall, the company's cooperation projects in tourism, rural society and other local institutions, Edda research centres, the Ranni and the University of Iceland, and the number of partners working on the field of research, lectures and informative. A research agency on artificial intelligence, or machines, made up of Ranni and University of Reykjavík and a number of partners. The marine mall has about 60 partners and institutions in a low - pressured business. The Cata natural force is a co-worker of three teams of Skaftárps, Myrdalships, and the Battle of the Cradle. Then there is the state of Lakejork, the cooperation of tourism companies in that area. I'm going to last mention the Icelandic geothermal mall, the company's co-work project and the institutions of the Ecosystems in Iceland, under the Gekon cluster, and then GEORG, a geothermal project, an official Ecosystem that is linked to the European Community project, and was established in 2009 and strengthened to seven years of the Scientific and Technical Council. The examples I have given are a sign of initiative and knowledge of a branch of cluster activities in Iceland, mainly of the self-provide activities of companies and institutions, and some of the projects of public institutions. For the job and innovation, there is also an excellent job in development of projects, and, among other things, in the New Creation Center and Ranni's highest power. Minister Ragnheiður Elín Árnadóttir, shown interest in ideologies, understanding, and geologic disturbances worthy of attention. For films, the highest language was addressed. Industrial and commercial ministers recently finished the International Conference in Melbourne, Australia, and read this on the Ministry's website where the secretary stressed the importance of international cooperation with the increased use of geothermals. There it was confirmed that the Earthvarman World Summit will be held here in Iceland, Harpa, in 2020. The Icelandic geothermal has also attended an international geologic conference, now at the University of Darpah 2013, where the Guardian of the Conference, Mr. Ólafur Ragnar Grímsson, president of Iceland, was a speaker at that conference, and I, along with the U.S.A. the present minister of foreign affairs. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson. At that conference, 550 people from 40 countries arrived. Next, in April of 2010, the next convention with such features will be in Harpa, the third, which was held in 2010. A respectable president. Despite all the good work I've done to help me, I feel that it needs to follow more closely and be molded by a clear public cluster policy. In a report by the European Union, and I'm going to give her name here in the English language, with the permission of a president: Clusters aidentialisms, a public cluster policy was made to form foreign experts, in the form of growth agreements in the management of the Ministry of Industrial Development, where professional development institutions by the European Development Centres of the New World Power Centres, were distributed to the applicant in order to promote employment in certain areas. However, in 2007 the Scientific and Technical Council decided to define projects to six years of age, from 2009-2015, competitive internationally competitive for business, university, institutions, and community groups as a key factor. Three projects eventually received this strength, which is the GEORG, the geothermal I mentioned, the wizards, and Edda research site at the University of Iceland. The report aims to assess the results of this work, an important link to economic policy development and the development of a job. Although growth agreements are important to the Ministry's work in the development and development of regionally, they are thought to have limited links and significance to the overall policy. I think that in this report we find the essence of the need for long-term public policies. The same report on the three cluster projects shows that they have the same conclusion as to the overall policy development, but mainly because such clustering is in the experimental level and because of limited funds. Michael Porter's book on national competitiveness, which may have suggested that the same Porter was the idea of the Icelandic geothermal cluster after a return to Iceland in 2009. Following the release of that book, this ideologies, policy, and management arrangement were under great force in many parts of the world. After about a decade of appreciation for the results, he differed according to the way the clusters were built up, with much to say. The report suggests that especially four factors had a major impact. First of all, funding and which seems to be a mixed way best, and now I'm collecting the results from the report, where the funding of public agencies, rural and institutions, and the private partners of the enterprise in that article are mixed together. Secondly, a board of directors. It is crucial that the management of the relevant group is at the hands of more than one part of the sector, though with active participation in educational and research institutions, as well as public agencies. Third, a longer-term development and monitoring policy. How important it is, then, that governments have a policy and show how it should look in the long run! Fourth, it is the global development of clusters and cluster activities. Classes are an ideal site to find partners abroad in the same field. In other parts of the North, official cluster policy has already been adopted, and Norwegians have taken a very interesting approach in the construction of their official cluster policy. The policy there is taking the initiative of the local government under the lead of two advisers. Norwegians define their clusters in three shapes, a local cluster, a local cluster, and an international cluster. Danir has also adopted a public cluster policy, while the Danish Ministry of Education and Science produced a new strategy in December 2012. It shows that the future vision of a dance body of governments is to strengthen cooperation and build bridges between scientific research, education, and innovation in the economy, with newly created solutions in mind as a key to growth and prosperity. This Parliamentary arrangement for the shape of cluster policy is designed to shape such a channel, to work with the growth of innovation and employment in all parts of Iceland. Official cluster policy can promote the cooperation of scientific and professional life on behalf of valuable creations, resulting in increased production and prosperity. My importers are down. Councilmen Sigrún Magnúsdóttir, now the highest. Environment Minister, Þórunn Egilsdóttir, Karl Garðarsson, Silja Dögg Gjörn's Gunnarsdóttir, Daðason Mysteron, Haraldur, Einarsson, Þórhallsson Thorhálsson, Hauksdóttir Hauksdotir, Arnardóttir Eagledorsson, Frosti Sigurjónsson, Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir, Pálsson, Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir, and Þorsteinn Sæmundsson. [[The president calls.]] So, a respectable president, I suggest that the motion be made. Employment committees and there receive appropriate treatment.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u133	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a hearing about the university of Peoples. Artists are Björt Ólafsdóttir, Páll Valur Björnsson, Óttarr Proppé, Róbert Marshall, and Steingrímsson. The matter is that the General council concludes to hide the Minister of Education and Culture to start working on a bill for public legislation on public schools in Iceland. The aim is to make public college an acceptable choice for an education that has the legal authority and the support of the government. This work will include an arrangement that applies to the function of a population university elsewhere in the North countries. The bill will be submitted to the 2015 Fall Summit and no later. The aim of such legislation would be to make the environment of a public university comparable to that in other countries. For example, public schools in Iceland would offer a wide range of education and education that the common people would be able to obtain for a well-finished public condition, such as age and years. With such legislation would be a practical setting around the management of the people's university and the rules for their economic foundations. People from other lands have over a hundred years of history, traced back to the 19th - century Danan Grungg, who proposed that a different kind of education and the rigid, academic education then available. Ideas are involved in preparing students for life by stirring up their interest and expanding their horizons. The emphasis is on the spoken word, discussion, and reasoning, as well as on the student's participation in all things. On this basis, a large number of public schools have developed in other parts of the North. They are now several hundred and very different in view of the offer of study. Most schools, though, are to be boarding schools where students live together while studying. Students are at least 18 years of age or older and are studying at school for 4◯12 months at a time, while some take schools with younger students. A report by the Ministry of Presidency All held on to their study and work, published in 2012, states the word for word: To meet the different needs and expectations of students and to cultivate and maintain their interest, the study needs a variety of teaching methods and modern productions of study material in elementary and high school. It is important to encourage students in their researchal and solutions and contribute to the initiative, criticism, and creative work of students. New media that students use outside the school must be used to instill their interest in the study and increase the wide range of tasks, e.g. in the form of multimedia.◯ These are some of the highlights of the work of a community university. They increase the variety of education systems and can meet the needs of students in ways other than traditional schools. Thus, the importance of public education is beyond question. In addition, the General Assembly agreed on May 21, 2007, a resolution taken by representatives of the Western Institute of Iceland, where the governments of Iceland, the Faeroe Islands, and Greenland might be challenged to support the creation of North American People Colleges in these countries. This body of interpretation proposal is proposed to prepare for public legislation on the function of public schools and on what conditions and requirements they must meet in order to obtain a permit. Such legislation must serve as a basis for the activities of the schools not only in the field of education but also in its domain. Among other things in the legislation, there is a set of requirements for schools to meet to qualify for work permit, the conditions and requirements for students and teachers, the way monitoring is conducted, the possible charges, and the conditions for the schools to meet in order to be supported by the government. In this regard it is very important to look to other national groups according to the pattern of social legislation, which has a general law that has to do with the above. There's no need to invent the bike. Racial colleges vary greatly, including depending on the people involved in their business, but either schools are self-employing, cartels, rural communities, or others with whom they are qualified. Thus, the emphasis may vary from art and culture to sports, demographics, religious education, environmental and awareness, etc. People's strength is polymorphism, and it allows young people to have a wide range of studies with different priorities and goals than those of traditional book or to-do schools. It would have to be an almost clean addition to Icelandic school shovels, but this country is now running a single school based on the philosophy of the public schools, the LungA of Seyversia. While there is good experience with school activities, it is clear that if the management is to continue in the same course, a better basis is needed. With this suggestion, he hopes that this will happen and that possibilities will open up to more people's schools by diverse functions. I suppose this proposal goes to the General and Education Committee and looks forward to seeing the reviews. We own this one public college at the Seystersk that I've visited, and there's a great deal of work going on there, but it's very important that we secure the ground of law and these schools can collect funds from the business and that they also meet certain obligations.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u134	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a synonym as to the interpretation of independent police operations and practices. The movers, along with me, are the reason. Senators Birgitta Jónsdóttir and Jón Þór Ólafsson. The motion is as follows, by permission of the president: The General concluded to hide the Council's Committee for Presidency to have a legal hearing for a special agency by the Generals, which is independent of police operations and practices. The preparation of the bill will include the following projects: a. starting the inspection of your own initiative, b. to accept the charges and complaints of individuals who consider the police to have violated their rights, c. investigating the alleged violations of police work, d. investigating inside police reports of harassment and sexual harassment, ... toexploit informationfrom anonymous exposés inside the police or administration. Then, in preparation of the bill, the Agency will also be able to oversee whether the Agency can employ prosecution in such measures. The bill will specifically require the independence of the Agency. The Presidency Committee provides the bill for presentation and cost analysis no later than the 2016 spring Summit The proposal assumes that the bill covers a wide range of functions of the Agency. First of all, a general police operation. This includes monitoring the existence and availability of procedures for police officers, monitoring the application of police authority, the implementation of housekeeping, telecommunications, arrests, preservation of arrests and police services to the general public. Second, a survey of cases caused by public complaints, associates, individuals, or lawyers. Often there are issues related to the implementation of police work that indicate that something might have been better left without any suspicion of a criminal offense on the part of the police. The Agency could handle such complaints and have the authority to call for explanations and data from police services. Third, a secondary investigation by police officers. This refers to both the alleged violations of police officers against their duties and their alleged offenses against the public and the individual. Fourth, studies involving major police offenses, whether at work or outside. This refers to the violations of prison punishment, or gross financial punishment. Special attention is given to the fact that, unlike the studies of minor fractures, which should only include alleged fractures during the duties of the field, it is recommended that the Agency also investigate major fractures suspected of having committed outside the work hours by a policeman. This would prevent police from investigating the behavior of their male and female brothers and could result in serious financial punishment or imprisonment. It would also be assured that such research would have the advantage of credibility beyond the present system of things. At the fifth and final steps, the Agency needs to consider whether it can be granted legal authority on matters under which it is heard. However, this calls for a special view of the government's trinification of the state government, but the goal is to make prosecutions less associated with the police. A respectable president. Much has been discussed about the need to establish independent surveillance of the police in recent losses. This can be attributed to a public discussion involving a number of subjects that have developed in recent years. The police database, the execution of wires, and the implementation of a physical search and a police report during the 2008 constituted protests. Police officials often come from individuals who, in one way or another, have come into trouble with the law. Part of them has repeatedly been involved in police history and possibly in more than one police problem. This may well lead to doubting the truthfulness of the subject at the study. However, effective police surveillance is not only for the benefit of the citizens but also for those doing law enforcement because of the necessary confidence that the police need to enjoy among the citizens in order to do their job as best. Nor can it be overlooked that there are few policemen in the country who are cohesive. They have spent time together in high school at the police school, attended studies together, working together in a class, and even at a social club. Embraces in the rights of suspected police officers. They also have many formal and informal social activities. This may mean that a police officer assigned to investigate the alleged violation of a police officer in another district is in a very difficult position. First, he may be linked to one of the above - mentioned defendants, and second, he may be under pressure from the union or part of the country of police members; third, he may personally be charged with an alleged penalties later in his career, and then he may have to suffer because the defendant or his colleagues and friends are investigating that case. All of this is intended to make the investigator difficult at study entry. Policemen also have interests because the investigation of their suspected offenses against one another or of their activities is in the hands of a noncommittee to the police. Sadly, over the past few years, there have been cases that indicate that harassment occurs within the country's individual police forces, and studies show that some policemen feel that they have been subjected to sexual harassment at work. Special care should be taken to ensure that they have the right to make sure that their rights are best cared for by an independent agency handling these matters. A police officer who is being harassed in his workplace has good reason to believe that an investigator comes from the police and relates to the police force through acquaintances, friendships, or social services may be biased to such tests. Likewise, such confidentiality within the class may give the suspect officer a reason for doubting the objective of the study or part of it. Such doubts could be eliminated by ensuring that an entirely independent outside police party is taking care of such tests. A respectable president. As a result of the close link between the State Attorney to other prosecutions, it may be considered unfortunate that the State Attorney will conduct police surveillance. In the same way, the independent surveillance agency on police operations cannot properly hear under the minister or other executives of the European Commission. This is primarily because the minister who handles police matters is at the same time the highest officer in the country. Therefore, the proposal suggests that the Presidency Committee will be assigned to prepare the ECC for a special surveillance agency, as the national administration order assumes that the Council is in charge of the Commission. In this way, such an institution might be lent to the public credibility needed, comparable to the high trust enjoyed by the U.S. government agent. In this way, the Agency's connection with law enforcement authorities is further prevented, for the Agency would be much better separated from the European Commission than if it were to be formed by the Office of the Ministry. A management agency of this type requires authority and research documents, which are discussed more closely in the report with the proposal. It also gives us a special section on the independence of the Agency and how to ensure the benefit of it. A respectable president. In an open democratic society, a mutual trust between the police and the citizens is necessary. In this regard it is necessary for the public to believe that the complaint and charges caused by police violations within jobs resulting from the righteous and unjust treatment of the government, the prosecution, and the courts. The countries we compare with have endeavored to achieve this objective in various ways, but all of them have taken steps to make complaint and complaint gains and establish control and research agencies that are independent of the police. I will not do any further in other countries here, but a special chapter of the proposal is dedicated to that subject. After this discussion, I suggest that this session be proposed for a second discussion. General and Education Committee. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u135	Mr. President. In view of the experience in which I have learned of the issues in this area, there has been a significant mass of council proposals made and I just want to go through it. It is clear that for a long time the police themselves have called for a very active monitoring of their activities. I know from my own experience that civilians have wanted to bring complaints about police work, and often the line has not been clear, whether it's a complaint or a complaint. It is clear, as it shows, that there is a bit unclear how people are supposed to make a living and that often there have been times when you had to guide people on the right path. I believe that, and I know that the police in general agree that there has to be an independent surveillance of the police operation and the execution of the police force in all respects. The report shows that the district attorney wrote letters to the Minister of the Interior and shows the importance of developing more intensive surveillance of police activities and reforming procedures when citizens believe that the police have failed to comply with the right rules. For the good of both citizens and the police, there are clear lines in this relationship. The police in our neighboring countries, which have been very cooperative with the Iceland police, Denmark, Norway, and Sweden, have adopted such surveillance agencies, but it shows that trust has not been what would have been the result of their research agencies being more or less members or members of the police force. I believe that what is stated in the Parliament's arrangement for independence will be far better than at present, that confidence and confidence in this surveillance will be gained. It is clear that there is no formal area where citizens can present their complaints about police practices and practices. This is shocking, since it is necessary for the police to know if citizens are at odds or would like to report a complaint against police work, both the police must learn from what has gone wrong, as well as be able to explain and point out what caused them to have to do in a way that the city disagrees with. In most cases, it has been possible to resolve well, but the scene needs to be very clear. So I agree with the Parliament's decree that this facility will be a member of the General Assembly. I think that's absolutely necessary. Police have long ago noted that the discussion in society on its activities is often based on the fact that the police themselves have not observed the various necessary activities of the police, even as it is mentioned in the law. It may be dedicated because the agency to supervise police work is not in place for employees or financially. The police want perfect confidence in their community and that what it does, what it needs to be done, is done right. Officers are like other men, they make mistakes. Often, they can be corrected, but the number one, two, and three are learning from the mistakes. I think the factors mentioned, these five points, go very well with what we've been working in the police for a long time, I've been working with the police for almost 37 years, and I don't have to repeat it. With regard to the 5th case of major offenses, it is at least my opinion that it is not right to bring the prosecution to this monitoring agency. It seems to me it's a piece of style, and I'd like the prosecution to be held by the prosecution of the prosecution today. It's more beautiful. In any case, the charges regarding police offenses are not removed or cut off from another prosecution. I suggest that this synoptic proposal be well treated at the council, for it is essential to the mutual trust of a state between the police and the citizens. There's a lot of power in the police department. She is a number one service partner, a civil service agency, and has often not been exposed to a number of things, because police often find it difficult to defend their hands. She's having a hard time, and she can't express herself publicly about an isolated situation. Hence, the police often have to agree with what is presented in a public discussion. Such a surveillance agency would be able to handle each issue, handle it with the person who has suffered what he feels is worth a complaint and wants an answer. As I said before, it has often been difficult to find the gap between general complaint and complaint, and it was often difficult to give counsel in a way that would be more dear than to complain when fellow workers were involved. In the meantime, because the law is clear that violating oneself in a job is an issue, not a complaint. I feel that this council proposal will do quite well with all of those matters and expect her to be well treated at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u136	Madam President. I recommend a proposal for a resolution of the expansion of the settlements and the edification of hunting warrants. With me, the movers are at the suggestion. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon. paritaprevir The Steinunn of Þóra the Year's Árnadóttir. The suggestion reads: The General concluded to hide marine eco-efficiency and agri-gri-efficiency to achieve the future policy thresholds for the development of fractured settlements in agreement with a Based agency and key stakeholders. In order to establish the marine less populated policy, a substantial increase in the largest fishing warrants and an assessment of how much fishing resources are necessary for this process. A parallel view will be taken from the experience obtained from the provision and use of the fishing documents that have been treated by the Office. For example, consider the best ways of providing support to create an increasing population of broken - down areas where agriculture, food industry, tourism, or other employment services have created, or are the most likely to create stability and growth potentials, and explain the best way to achieve such support in order to achieve the desired results. It will be proposed that there will continue to be a specific Action Programme on the development of fractions based on an integrated government emphasis. For the first time at the beginning of the fall of 2015, the minister will submit such a program in the form of a synonym. An article with this suggestion is as follows: In this matter of Congress it is proposed that organized measures for the sake of the so - called fractured settlements, i.e. Based on persistent decrease in the number of people, monotonous activities, loss of working and increasing population age. Thus, it takes over those areas of the country that are getting weaker and that are most likely to end. In 2012, Rafafia began with a study project called Frastration based on membership of the local, graffiti, and other bodies. The following year, there was an increase to comparable projects in three more rural areas, a Skaftár carpet, a British Valley carpet, and a Biltdal Valley. The work force used in projects performed under the foreword of the Brothers is based on democratic approach and ideas of authority. This involves searching local initiatives and ideas and asking for their assessment of the need for action and choice of subjects. Thus, the experience, knowledge, and needs of the local people weigh heavily on the priority of subjects. Thus, local ideas, their aims, and the desire for the basis for action taken. In the case of broken - down settlements that will survive under the fishing and production of seafood, there is a fundamental reason for the survival of the settlements. Based on eutrophication of eutrophication, consisting of eutrophication as a marine eco-gri-gritary minister for the provision of specific settlements, it has been possible to use fractures based on some cases. Based on the fishing and/or the implementation of cohesive fish or cohesion laws that have experienced unexpected reductions in the total resources of fishing vessels produced and in the countries in the relevant settlements. It is a requirement for a regional core that leads to sea, where marine fishing and agriculture are important. These include less than 2 thousand inhabitants on December 1, 2013, as shown in Article 1. Regulation No. 651 of July 4, 2014, on the disposition of eutrophicated euthanics in the fishing year 2014/2015. In accordance with Regulation No. 652 of 4 July 2014 on the distribution of markets to fishing vessels during the 2014/2015 season. As stated in the above, the distribution of cohesive measures taken under unsupervised conditions in certain areas is necessary and it is necessary to avoid problems that can result from natural causes, such as economic failures, but also from man's failures as well as from man's man's precipitating across the pedimentary system that there is the ability to transfer resources from one shape to another without even taking into consideration the home people who lose their bread, such as by sudden disaster. The community will no doubt have the need for resources such as the existing urban waste to cope with the events and difficulties of employment but, of course, it is not necessary to build a future of any community based on time-and-situary treatments but to find ways to provide sound support for the work and to sustain longer life. There, the largest fishing warrants will be of great importance to the settlements that build their produce on a fishing road. Long ago, it is urgent to settle matters so that because of the lack of resources, the survival of a permanent share in the common marine resource will be added. Not all fracture risks are based on the seaside, nor is it set aside by means of a built - up source to strengthen the foundation of a dwelling place there. Must find another way. Among other things, the task of Frastration results in the gradual increase in knowledge of the resources that are most effective in strengthening and strengthening low income subsidies and increasing the number of persistent people. Knowledge and experience can also be drawn from countries similar to those in most European countries, but in most of the areas where cohesion is carried out among the most important government projects, large amounts of money are spent for that type of work, and should be determined according to defined criteria and objectives. The development of regional policy development and the support of deforestation laws has increased the share of the local people in the shape and implementation of the action being implemented. Efforts to build foundations and improve the welfare of the population may include increasing opportunities for education, e.g. by tele-and-exploitation, infrastructure investment, support for new investments in businesses, markets, management programmes and counselling for enterprises and support for sectoral revenues and revenues. It is important for everyone to see the sectoral and income options found in certain settlements to be used there as much as possible to benefit the population. In general, community arrangements must be made on that basis. For example, the art of tourism - based facilities - can be seen in areas where the industry is or can become commercial. In some areas, there is a chance that increased agricultural development, forest development, or other agricultural innovations could be a favorable option for a particular community and a whole Icelandic community. In other places, a small amount of industry can be a good option. This proposal has been made because the one standing here has long thought it would be a good idea to consider the possibility of connecting and attach it to the weakest local law. We are familiar with recent examples of how this has been so. Many small numbers have been built for a major failure when the biggest employer leaves the screening room with its resources and the remaining people have little chance of creating a job in which there is no access to the fishing grounds. It reveals the defects of the saying system, i.e. the room. Somehow, this needs to be handled and the possibilities needed to build a permanent foundation for living in these coastal areas. It is reasonable to consider, too, to be more supportive than in the weak, and it has to be just as stable as agriculture is, then these two pillars, agriculture, and fishing grounds will always be the foundation on which they are built, and other factors will build up and increase diversity in these areas. Today, 5.3% of each year's labor distribution is designed to support work and build up social connections with them. This has been done with so - called settlements, which have been controversial. The provision that has been made over the past few years, that a special construction groundwater company has been moved to several settlements with special treaties, has been well established. I think it's right for us to develop it and see if we can guarantee even more permanent residence and security of people in the weak areas both to sea and to rural areas. In these days, aquarium and agrienvironmental ministers provided a bill for strategium and strategy. I believe that this council proposal will do quite well with that in itself. I refer to this proposal to the pro board. I think it's very normal that there will be a bill on the strategy and application plan, until then, and this council-sense proposal will be accepted into that work. It is not a personal government that is at one time in power. Rather, every time the government's common assignment is to try to trust residence and inhabited. Of course, there are ways to do so. People have generally spoken positively in this regard at the General Assembly, but unfortunately, they have not proved to be very supportive in times of trial, e.g. ... wehaveaquilt. Sometimes it is not necessary to strengthen these settlements. Today, there are some 2 thousand tons of codfish in a Based Institute that can be set aside for these items. They'd have to increase that much, because we're always getting new settlements, now the last Grimney. We know Flatty, Thyatira, Crimson and other places. We must not always respond to this with a crisis aid at a time. Rather, we have decided at the High Council that these are based on their right to exist and have a firm foundation for building on. I think it's an introduction to that discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u137	Madam President. I think this is a very important suggestion. I just want to stop at hunting grounds, not just to fragile settlements, but to all sea villages around the country. I come from a rural society that's not broken barley but a large rural society with a lot of resources. Then came up a so - called extra fishing fee. What would that be? A senator states that a part of the second fishing fee would remain in these coastal areas? In the Western Islands, for example, each human child pays less than 600,000 in both fishing and in additional fishing costs. Because of this, there's not going to be anything left in the community, so it's going to go somewhere else. What would that be? A senator would say that if a part of an additional fishing fee remained in these coastal areas?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u138	Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. The fishing debate is always in this context. I haven't seen the fishing fee as a special local tax, as I've heard of some whales. Senators are talking about. I believe the cost of fishing should go to most of the joint funds of the country, which is then replaced by funding for the development of society, infrastructure, health, education system, and transportation. Hv. A senator knows that money is needed to strengthen the island's transport, then to the Landing Sea, and with a new host. All of this, of course, has to go through government funds for distribution. No small fishing village builds up the infrastructure, the road system, and its own health institutions or educational institutions. We do it through our common fund of our country, our state funds. The bill issued by the former government assumed that there would be a growing tenet in which the State rented through labor resources. It was to improve the possibility of recruitment and open a closed quota system. It was assumed that part of the income that would come in because of this tenure of the state's government is in the countryside. I agree with that it should be developed and found the way it was done in that bill so that our rural society also enjoys its fruits and gains part of a common resource to build up the countryside. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u139	Madam President. I appreciate those answers. I can agree with them. Now, when one or two, in a small fishing village is sold from the local community, the local residents are left in a fishing village. Bigtime. A senator imagines that part of a fishing parvote would be marked by the local community, so that each display space might have more than one part of the quatane or tenant and would receive some of the remaining items in the community? This has been so often, as we know over the years, when large and strong fishing companies leave small settlements, rural areas, even large ones, and employment and so forth are difficult to deal with. I'd love to hear the answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u140	Madam President. It is so remarkable that when it comes to stumbling, many people are raised by a wicked dream, especially when it comes to their community. One person is calm and thinking: Yes, this little settlement on the land - it's a trend that everyone wants to go south to the gravel. It's just like this, there's nothing we can do about it. It's not quite like that. This is the core of these settlements that need to be held around. The exorcise has these huge faults that are hard to deal with. There have been various ways in which people, including those in the United States, have studied. That's what I'm talking about. One senator noted that it is possible to force workers to sell resources in that area again, that they are obligatory in part to allow the local community to have a chance of being between different and reassigned sources. There's one possibility. Then there is the possibility that the state will just take in the resources for a price and offer it back out. There's a lot of options. I've always been very opposed to this deed and how ill it's been to these settlements. Therefore, if I play the same game now with the mackerel, I look in horror at it. We've been burning on this system, and we've been living with it for way too long. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to see a lot of changes in that, but now people are going to do exactly the same with the mackerel. [[The president calls.]] It's unacceptable. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u141	Madam President. I'm just going to say in this fine case, which my comrades here in the left movement are offering, which is a proposal for a Congress resolution on the growth of fractured settlements and edification of fishing warrants. Perhaps it's a long time to secure fishing warrants, as if we've become so tangible a warning to come from the sealands where the food has gone once and fortified from society. Then it may be one of the things we need to deal with here at the council if we believe that the whole country is to be inhabited. This is one way, i.e. fix hunting clearances to the settlements. A specific protocol is proposed here, i.e. An integrated government-based strategy, and it will be expected to be submitted here for the first time the next fall. Of course, we are familiar with the uniqueness of a job life that is often accompanied by small radios. Hence, it is often an abundance of blood that has taken place in such places. This assignment was started in 2012 at the Redfarve, where it began. It has been demonstrated, though possible, that it is doing well and has lifted a little breath to its inhabitants and has prevented the inhabited earth from simply dying. Since then, more rural communities, Bilddal Valley, Breinddal Times, and Skaftárpes have been added to this project, Fragile settlements built up in 2013 and 2014, and funds were increased to this in the hands of a living agency. Since then, at the General Assembly, we have fought for the contribution of the current government to further increase money rather than reduce it to the agency as well as to add to the host for distribution. Here was not so long ago when it happened. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, who made this case, had a word at the highest level. A seaman minister for the pot that says 5.3%, and we believe many of us are too little to deal with this. It has been said of the fact that for a purpose a special pot will be provided at a localisation, far greater than it is, if it is to be useful. We can see, for example, in Deepvogur, where thousands of tons are disappeared from the rural society and a few hundred tons are replaced, there's nothing to say when the processing is completed in the country as well. So something else has to come along. Of course, there are other things that can happen, i.e. Not only are there fishing warrants, but there are many other possibilities that the rural communities can face that can strengthen and benefit the inhabitants of that area. We should be aware of this when we are asking the locals for suggestions - because it is an experimental project that has been proved natural, based on drawing them to the table and getting them to see how they would see the community. For example, the representatives of the Fundavogshrepps have approached us. In view of their situation, they have put in place certain ideas for us members of the district to advance them where there is interest in strengthening and maintaining their settlements and supporting what is there in view of the failings that occurred at the time of the wedding. And they will see what those who are now in charge want to do in order to support it. I think it's urgent to listen to the specific ideas that the people think will strengthen our community, that's one of the things I think we should look into and examine with a very open mind. There are other communities that have been successfully dealing with failures. We've talked a lot about Gímney and what to do there. Happily, we have come to the point where they are being dealt with parapoliticly, hoping that a solution will be found on their problem, for I don't think any human would like to be built off like anywhere else. I think we also need to be prepared to have an open mind about all of that. Although we have been experimenting with specific methods, including those related to this project, the dangers of decomposition may need to be taken into account by the communities we have at one time. It's not always about the fish. In itself, it may be interesting, as it is not good for rural society to hire a task manager because its population is fragile, but in the same way, it may show an interest in maintaining their area. And now, both Thomson and the East have chosen special task directors to spend some time trying to maintain this interaction and link to a living institution, as well as to follow the ideas that develop in the population to strengthen and enhance the diversity of the communities. That may be what is so important, since a job path has been monotonous. It is evident that as here was attributed to the occasion, the proposal puts it this way: a relative addition to a proposal, then it's not something on which we can build the settlement. That is why it is so important to increase the number of opportunities for a wide range of employment opportunities, not just the most important tourism, but in so many other areas that may be convenient for each area. Although most people look to the tourism right now, we also need to be careful not to put all the eggs in the same basket as that. Of course, the strengths that each territory has can be built on, even though they may be within the sector. In the suggestion, there is no foundation to trust, nor profit to the inhabitants; and I care for it. It speaks of education, telecommunications, investments in infrastructure, etc. I am deeply concerned that we are not very effective at using the highly educated minister who is in power right now. When it comes to education equipment, I am deeply concerned about the scattered settlements. I believe a minister is cutting them down by the action he intends to take and has been putting up with budgets primarily, since it is not a matter of discussions here at council, and actually reduces the ability of people to pursue both telecommunication and distribution. Of course, it is not a small loss to strengthen the scattered settlements that need so much, most of them, to raise their level of education. When it comes to even uniting schools in a single economy, which, for example, is an icebed and a sheep's bed or something, it does not result in the idea that residents in the West will benefit from it and that they can increase their level of education to use the pioneers or other factors that could strengthen the settlements and simply keep it in those areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-11-104.u142	Madam President. I would also like to add some words to this proposal. Actually, I'm one of the transporters, so I don't need to be buried on my position. I believe that work with the weakest or most fragile settlements that have developed for the past three years through the collective initiatives of the graffiti and the Ministry of employment and innovation at its time has made significant innovations in this field that we have seen for a very long time. This is a new approach, innovation can be called it, in a regional methodology and related discussion, which, I believe, is not at any angle, although it is mentioned in the history of the former chairman of the Agency, professor Thordent Bjarnason was in many respects an original, i.e. in order to draw attention to the national settlements and lay the basis for the multiplicity involved. Part of the diversity is the fact that some settlements are very weak and brittle far beyond others, which requires specific approach, specific work to support them. In fact, the lesson is that the general measures in terms of growth agreements and based planning and general advisers that are often associated with geographic matters, the good they are simply not able to accomplish, or are not useful to the smallest of the foundations, because the situation there is actually too weak to be fully absorbed in them. This requires specific measures. That's what's involved in this ideologies plus that it has from the beginning based on working with its residents and setting them into cooperation with itself in their affairs. This commission has already proved true. The first assessment has been made, and these results are positive. As already noted, this began at Redfarves, especially because of the very difficult circumstances there, and, of course, some of them continue to exist, following some kind of unprecedented developments in recent decades to the worse in local affairs during the past or in the past, as well as the avoidance of the years. and most important, the removal of almost complete fishing materials from the community was linked. Of course, there is one side of the spine in this suggestion to look for a way to create the sealands once again with some significant increase in edification of fishing grounds. As we have seen, not all fracture risks are based on the seaside, although many of them are in many places, and the situation in many parts of the small marine regions is the most vulnerable, with the monotonous life associated with marine espionage and is usually associated with the problem of fishing clearance. Then there are other areas. It is already available in Project Thomson Scrotum, which is the nature of the case as a rule does not build much on oceanic roads with its bare coasts. More settlements, where agriculture, tourism, or other activities are much more dominant than sea soils, have either applied for involvement or are considering participation in the project. Of course, the government needs something to set the table with him. It should be noted that in our time it is very important to try whether it is available at the General Assembly to increase the scope of the Agency's resources and to provide more fishing grounds for it, so that it has the potential to cope with the situation at other locations or after events that are even more effective because it has already taken some fishing grounds on this basis. The difference, among other things, is that fishing warrants can be established for several years instead of annual intervention by less traditional groundwaters, which are essentially a much more intensive procedure, provide a firm on which to be built. That's what needs to be tried. Similarly, as the proposal goes on, the possibility to use comparable instruments in areas where other partners need to be better equipped and more than the most based fishing grounds, such as support for development of agriculture or tourism or food industry or such. Of course, they can be supported in the form of other things. We can mention recent agricultural support, man's special support for generation change, or agriculture, for farm change, for some kind of development money, and so on. You might ask, " Why look especially at the most fragile and weak parts of the world? ' Of course, there is only one approach by many that is possible regarding geographic matters. But sometimes it is said that no chain is stronger than the weakest link, and in many respects it is well fitted with geographic matters. It is so that if the structure is broken in any area, if it breaks down a link in the chain of munitions e.g. with the beach, or where it is inhabited, deforestation, a perimeter formed, and such borders tend to move out. They'll get sick from where they're from. Hence, it is not worse than any other to look at this from that end and to try to heal the breaches and prevent the formation of a built - in edge. Any other approach, of course, is to look at it from the other end and emphasize the importance of growth and the importance of a major national service core. Of course, it is also true that they must be there. There you need to be able to attend more intensively and more services, etc. But I guess it's like sometimes before, that it's good with each other. I think it's just right to look at their communities and work with them, but to focus only on the fact that only a few places outside the southwest corner have a chance. Of course, the work with the local people is very important. I've attended a number of city councils in recent losses, including the Redfarves, and also in connection with national parish programmes. It was ideologies of just the same hurt, working on the progress of the communities and the national parts of the world on their terms. In view of the fact that the present government has made them, in my view, a dramatic mistake to almost apply the application programmes of the national parts of the country. It can rightly be said that they are on a respirator now between the ages of 100 million people in total tears here in the two consecutive years, instead of a total of 400 million at the beginning and the meaning that it would increase to $1 billion to 1,200 million a year. There would have been a considerable amount of money that would be set aside for the locals based on work in the areas where people had set their priorities and set aside certain developments and decided themselves that the funds they had from playing were going to do them. In view of the lack of funds, the level of work on the basis of parishion plans is even greater than that, although only what has been done during the past few years, 50 million for business purposes, and then some fishing warrants and other resources that the government has to put on the table with the local people on the basis of shops for crime prevention. Unfortunately, we have been looking up at tragedy, severe trauma, especially in connection with a fishing agent in the saying "I'm going to kill you. " Is close to memory, as mentioned above, when one company actually makes one decision to pay a heavy blow to the three settlements of the country and almost destroy the marine outways and production of existing sea products, i.e. Sciences in Grindavík, who decides on one board to set off fishing in Deepvogur, Greece, and Húsavík, and carry all the fishing warrants south, away. In at least two out of three cases, they went off to the current fishing grounds, i.e. in Húsavík, where together the congregations were the hunting warrants of Deepavógs and Breið Valley and Húsavík's fishing warrants from Húsavík's Fishing Association, which had been built up for decades, in one night they disappeared like dew before the sun. The problem of Grima has also been mentioned. I fear that even more places could be mentioned where the situation is fragile and that people have not yet been supported by the kind of thing on which the projectfare is built and able to do. There is good reason, then, to agree to this proposal and to follow it after there will be a fishing warrant for the case. [[The president calls.]]
