ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u1	I'm offering everybody what? Allied members, as well as governments, welcome back to council service after Easter break. The final session of this council, as it were, in the spring council. Without a doubt, the spring council will be very busy, for some of the new features of the needle are very much available, but the delay for the contributions of new councils ran out at Quartal Week, March 31, March. I expect a good cooperation with all members of Congress, especially the government and the leading government opposition, so that the Senate can be completed properly at this spring council. An important aspect of our work is the technology that has become available in all relationships with network, tissues, literature, e - mail, and community media. This trend has opened the way for more transparency and facilitated access to all information. The General has tried to follow the trend, and in fact, the Council's web has praise, especially for those who make extensive use of it. Evolution is rapid, and changes to progress have been made. It was time to arrange for the content of the council's web to be applied through smartphones and tablet computers. At the same time, the required updates on the site led to the appearance of the changed interface. This step is to add a search into the web so that information on the labour work, law in the country, and official evidence of the work of the Council is as good as technology allows. The change I make here was made some time before Easter. Not all fixes will be completed and will continue to be processed, including taking into account the reactions and the recipients of the tissue in the near future. Hv. All council members. I want this opportunity to draw attention to it. On Friday, April 10, 75 years had passed since the people's one of the most important agreements in their history. Then the Icelanders actually took full control of all the affairs of the State. This, on the other hand, was a resolution on the treatment of the government in which the government of Iceland was now entrusted with the monarchy and concluded that Iceland will take full control of foreign affairs and land care. These events followed the invasion of Germany in Denmark on April 9, 1940, where Danir became unable to fulfill his duties according to the 1918 Danish Federal Code. The news of the invasion in Denmark arrived on the morning of April 9. The government found meetings all day, as well as the State Department, and there was a great consultation between members of Congress and members of Congress. It was a great deal of time that the government had seen the danger and secretly prepared itself for the events that took place there, thus ensuring the interests of the Icelandic State at a time of terror in human history. On the basis of administrative emergency rights, the General Assembly at a night meeting on April 10, 1940, with the joint votes of all members of Congress, made a decision on the full authority of the Icelanders under these circumstances. The next step in Iceland was the establishment of the governor's office a year later and then the republic of the Þingum in 1944. Both of these conclusions are evidence of the importance of the Council's role in Iceland's administration and its role in the history of the nation. There, cohesiveness and security were replaced. There is every reason to honor the history of these events and the memory of those then on earth. Now, with the encouragement to the generals that we try to live up to the schedule we set for ourselves, I'll finish these comments. In the fall of the year, there was a solidarity. I know that this can be difficult, especially because many cases are late, as too often have happened. However, with good planning, priorities, and the cooperation of members and ministers, it is in my opinion that congregational work can be completed at the appointed time so that it is a waste for the council as well as for the nation. In June of that month, the Council will remember in its own respects that 100 years have passed since Icelandic women were elected. I encourage the council members to agree on how to attend a meeting on June 19th. will stand.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u2	Borist has a letter from what? 4th, including Smoke. So, Pétur H. Blöndalur, that he will not be able to attend a council meeting in the near future. So today, at the World Council of II, a deputy of the Independence Party lists the district Áslaug María Friðriksdóttir, while 1 strategist on the list is already at the General Assembly as a member. In the past, Ásgía Friðriksdóttir, who is invited to serve again, is invited to serve at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u3	There have been two letters from the Department of Professional Road and Neoplasms asking for deadlines to give written answers to panel requests. 990, on national economic efficiency based on measures, and on padding. 922 of the settlements, both of the Sigurður of the son of Örn Ágústsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u4	A convention meeting is held that it can last longer than what the People say if necessary, so that it is possible to complete the currently scheduled inquiries.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u5	Mr. President. I can agree with the president mentioned above about the need for us to bring about a measure of well - being in this last session of Congress. But I am amazed that I do not see the ultimate. Prime Minister or Supreme Minister. The secretary of finance to answer in the first inquiry period after a two-week intermission, a intermission in which strikes have begun in the community. BHM strike is ongoing. We read about a state of state that cannot be considered safe for patients and the highest. The prime minister uses the Assembly of the Future Party to inform us of the rest, whether of the members of the council or of the people in the country, that the plan is to lift the head by the end of the council. That's what we've got? 18 Summit days! Then comes the dignified president of the council, saying: " Still, it is important to have a work plan. I would have liked to have a chance, Mr. President, to ask both the highest ones. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. In view of the information we have received through the progress team meeting, and in view of the serious situation in the labour market, a secretary of finance would come out of this office on the first day. [[The president calls.]] I don't think it's a great idea, Mr. President. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u6	Like what? Congress officials know the extent to which it is announced at the highest level of attendance. Minister here in unsubstantiated queries. When the president realized that the presidents of the administrative committees were not announced to participate in these meetings, in unsubstantiated inquiries, the president attempted to fire either one or both of the highest. Ministers may be present. It's at the highest. Ministers don't have the option. We know that even at the highest. Ministers would like to attend a meeting, such as why. Parliaments are under obligation, perhaps under the highest pressure. Ministers, just like what they're doing. Councilmen, who have no option or no chance of coming to a council meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u7	A respectable president. I thank the President for welcoming us out of Easter, but I must ask if the directors of the board are still on Easter holiday. Or what causes them not to be here for a meeting to answer unsubstantiated inquiries? Of course, they should be ready twice a week, especially after a long break and after the big announcements made on Friday. I thank the President for trying to get them to the meeting to answer questions. I don't know why they don't trust themselves to answer the questions they obviously need to answer. But I ask the President to arrange the council program so that another unprepared conference will be in the beginning tomorrow, Tuesday, they will be able to answer the urgent questions they have to answer at the beginning of tomorrow's meeting. It is clear to each person that with strikes in the country, with declarations of reimbursement and with many approvals of the convention, that the Government's Congress is not to be carried out, these leaders of the government are bound to be here to answer or that they answer at least why they do not trust to answer. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u8	A respectable president. I want to agree with this. It is shocking that either president of the government is not here to answer very urgent questions after two weeks' leave. There have been a number of declarations in a town that need explanations. I'd also like to make another talker. It's like the highest. The president did well in his address earlier is urgent to maintain a work schedule, and it is a principle that we try to bear in mind in the matter of Congress, that it is a plan of work. Now the government has had an entire assembly to promote Congress, urgent matter, policy issues, and I believe that the government has not used what should be, and that has rather become a matter - perhaps blessed but sometimes fatal - from the government. But now, according to government officials, cases are coming, and summer council needs and so on. I don't mind a summer council if there's a great need, but it's the highest. The president instructs prime minister and other advisers in the government that they should respect a work programme. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We are tempted to propose a new matter of Congress, and we are not just on the back of some department at the council to wait for the bills laid out when counsellors please. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u9	A respectable president. I would like to agree with what has been said here that there is no need for much political science to realize that anything is unacceptable but that it is one of the first projects of this week that the members of Congress have the opportunity to have a word against government leaders. It's not like we're coming here to work on the usual Monday. We haven't been in the council for two whole weeks and the highest. The prime minister has made extensive announcements at a panel of candidates, that he should make large declarations there, and then deliver an empty chair here. It's with the Council as the highest. The government is to answer, and it's to the Council as supreme. The prime minister should be prepared to answer for his decisions, not just during his own councils in town. So I agree with the proposal that tomorrow's special unprepared queries are appropriate.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u10	A respectable president. This is not the first time we've come up here, one by one, and complain from the absence of the highest. Prime Minister or Supreme Minister. Secretary of finance. This is in much harmony with what seems to be especially disrespectful of the highest. Prime Minister for the council. When I'm at the highest. The prime minister makes a statement about something as important as a currency head would have thought he would want it to be discussed with him by the high Council, to ask him questions, to get something straight, because there are many questions to ask. I could say that it usually disappoints me not to see the highest. The prime minister here, but this has become customary, a man has become accustomed to this lack of respect, this disregard for the General and the democracy. It's a disgrace. I wonder, if I'm going to say exactly as it is, a respectable president, how do you think they're going to finish this council according to a plan. I don't see it happening, with all due respect. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u11	A respectable president. We must make comments to this general custom of prime minister to the council. Coming after Easter license and giving the rich place is not acceptable, and all of us must object, especially when people are standing in public places and making dramatic statements about action in one of the nation's major interests and then not put forth the effort to come to the council and answer inquiries about it. That's not an option, a respectable president. We have to ask that tomorrow there will be an extra court time or a report from the highest level. The prime minister of what he meant in his talk about what will be done for abolition. The only thing I can read from his statements over the last two years is that he has spent those years trying to find new names of operations done in a long-term advanced government. That's all I've seen. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. V.E.G. The prime minister has done nothing else to stop the country than try to create war and strike himself at a knight with unfounded falsities. [[The president calls.]] He needs to come down to the council and answer for this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u12	President. I agree with my associates about the alleged disrespect for the council. We have oral inquiries here, but it has been most reluctant to have a prime minister come here on Monday to participate in this meeting program. I think it's very lame and unfashionable. I find it amazing that a prime minister cannot come here and answer for what happened at a national meeting of candidates. I am very concerned that the Senate will be very concerned with matters that come from the forward category, including the U.S. ... fromwhat. paritaprevir and Ministers of Eygló the Harðardóttir of Hardness and Prime Ministers. I'm also worried, and I'd like to go over it in detail with a minister, and I'd like to know that this will be a special meeting tomorrow with the schedule we're going to do below.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u13	Mr. President. Yes, I would like to congratulate the candidates at first. A man would have come to the highest. The prime minister would come in for a council and introduce the world of great ideas and magic solutions that flew between people at a convention of candidates. If all of this became reality, there might be something brighter ahead of us than the reality of our times. We are inundated with strikes, and ahead of us are continued strikes if nothing has to be done. Not the highest. A minister of financial matters or prime minister sees reason to be available during an unprepared period of inquiry when so much depends on society's interests. No, it seems better to maintain some idea center at the international convention, which is then not a man to discuss here, at the level where the matter is to be discussed, in the General Assembly. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u14	Mr. President. I wish for the government's well-being of the journey it has now begun, and hopefully it will lead to successful delinquency in currency capitals. I'd like to be able to support it, and I'll do it if there's a transfer that I and my people can accept, but for that I have to understand it. I still don't understand what this means. It has been three days since the announcement of the Prime Minister was made at the forward convention. The minister of finance has not yet been heard, yet only one member of independence has spoken about the matter, so he has found most to be a coward. It's happened to you. The head of the Economic and Business Committee, Frosti Sigurjónsson, knew nothing about the matter and had not been introduced. That's why I'm asking the highest. A president whether he will make sure that the moment those brothers come in the search, the highest. The minister of finance and prime minister, if they have been given a verbal report of this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u15	A respectable president. Indeed, a number of questions arise from the predecessors of the ruling parties. I wondered if they could be together at a meeting to review how the approval of the advance Party conforms to the State Department as the highest budget. The Secretary of Economics and Economics has set up here for a weekend. The highest would be understandable. The president wanted them to be here, either or both, after this long break because there are many questions we need to answer. One question is that if I remember the word, we're talking about a new plan of delinquency and that it's going to set up a stable tax. Is it the amount of exits mentioned in a strategy proposed by the Navy in March 2011? Is there a signal with the exit fee and this stable tax you're talking about? [[The president calls.]] We're gonna go for a second. People can't even tell us about this because they don't show up here, gentlemen, to answer such simple questions. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u16	Mr. President. Yes, according to the Parliament, the minister may provide a public report, and the president of the council can also authorize and arrange that this is a special statement. These tools are available, whether the president of the council decides to use them or the prime minister himself. We need to get a clearer answer about what it means that he said about delinquency, whether this is a change of direction or what, or whether he's not going to inform us about it because there's still a strategical work going on but then we need a very clear answer to a decommissionment committee in which members of each body are involved. There's not been a meeting for long. I guess this week's meeting's going to happen. We look forward to seeing whether this is a change of pace, but it must be much clearer. In the face of confusion, there is a potential for division in us that we must cherish. We have to try to be more intervening, but it's very difficult when all of this is so vague. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Of course, people are concerned about this big matter. We need clear answers, and we need them as soon as possible. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u17	A respectable president. I can say that it may not be the best thing to say that both presidents of the government are absent today. On the other hand, I have to say on behalf of my party and my chairman that he has generally been ready to discuss matters anywhere and at any time, though, so that on this day he needs to be at a meeting in a town. He was at a council meeting with us independents until two o'clock, but he had to go to a meeting with men for the money rants at two o'clock - with people in the city. On the other hand, I have to say, what. Councilmen and the highest. Mr President, I'm not interested in speaking at the National Conference Hall or the Continental Conferences, which have recently ended. They're not Congress papers. A group can reason whatever they want in a town. [[Prominently, Prime Minister...]] If it comes in here, it'll come in the form of a conference, but that I'm going to stand in a chair and discuss their conclusions at a party meeting - it just doesn't even occur to me. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u18	A respectable president. Most of those who listened to the talk of the Prosecutor of the Agency during the weekend wondered which planet that man was on. Under this team, I'm going to be able to ask, "Where is Prime Minister? " Don't you think it's clear what meeting is more important than meeting here and explaining over and over because it is repeated to the theme of this terms, exactly the highest. Did the words of the prime minister mean that? What are we talking about? Now we're drawing up the film again that we're in business so adventurously poor a government that something like this has not been seen in Iceland's political history. It is totally unacceptable after such declarations that people don't come here and explain what they mean so that they can talk about it so that we're not always trapped in the tire ride of wondering where people are going in this country. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u19	Mr. President. I can, in part, agree with what. paritaprevir Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir that I have no unusual interest in immersing myself in the internal agreements of advance, but now I believe that this is more of her than mine, in which it is the cooperation of the government team, and that includes. Consuming on government launchers. I believe the President did well in his opening words to suggest that the Generals actually keep their work plan in order not to be disturbed by the conduct of governments. True, it will require much planning and priorities if you are to take a personal course based on how late and bad things have come from a government, including a load of matters after March 31. Still, we still have issues that we sorely miss, such as the transport program and the activities that the council needs to deal with and deal with if necessary. Of course, it is surprising that the prime minister is not here today. He is indeed in the land, though. The secretary of finance has recently spoken from Florida, but it is good if he too has come home as described here. [[The president calls.]] Likely, then, we will see more of them in the days ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u20	A respectable president. I have to agree with my colleagues here on this matter. It is very special that the prime minister, who has been so credible, as if not for the first time during this council, and the presidents are often, appear to proclaim in this large number of basics about execution. They have not been submitted to the nature of the case according to the current reference to stable taxes. True, I can't find it in a dictionary, but that's another matter again. It would be worth knowing if the Prosecutors will be able to explain the stability tax. As noted above, during Florida, a minister of finance was talking about strikes that were already in progress and stability in a labour market, so this is inconspicuously inconsistency with what we experience here, and we would like to have a word with these government officials. [[The president calls.]] It has been concluded by the candidates against banks that are well - off, but it is on a bill submitted by the secretary of finance. There are many of them, the cases where the government groups are certainly paraphrased, and they certainly do not agree on what is presented in them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u21	Mr. President. I'm not going to extend this discussion, but, of course, it's a big problem. The prime minister does not answer when he has introduced the decision at his own district assembly. Rather, it is the fact that all are informed, although it has now been shown that his own party representatives and the Independence Committee are not informed, not rather than representatives of the ruling parties, but all that has been presented there have been some sort of ideas, no exports, so it is not okay to begin with. The prime minister allows himself to use such false reports and then not attend a councilroom. Sadly, as we have noted, this is not unique. V.E.G. The prime minister has spent the entire winter in a Assembly Hall for one special discussion. V.E.G. The president reviewed earlier that he had requested to the directors of the board that they be here today. They're not here. The vice presidents of these classes are not here. How should we be able to do our job if men are not here to answer? [[The president calls.]] We can't. It's not okay.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u22	President. It is not true that we always disagree in this room, as some may think. We often agree, and I think we all agree here that the greatest project in the government and the greatest political endeavor today is to clear the head of currency. That is why it must be very strange, and we must be a bit confused about priorities, which is now a fashion term, the leaders of this government. V.E.G. On Friday, the prime minister says that the solution has arrived, and all this has to be done before the end of the council. We have 18 days to discuss this, and neither of them will be here today. It's so rude of the Council that I don't think it's heard. It would be interesting to know where the highest would be. The prime minister is and it would be interesting to know what meeting with some non - members is more urgent than to explain to the council this proposal in the nation's greatest interest today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u23	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Magnúsdóttir Electrical Island for congratulations by the forward party party party party and celebrate their interest. Congress members show the meeting that was truly good and upbuilding. We had a nice weekend and we'd be glad to have a better discussion with you here, but this is probably not the scene for that. But we are clearly ready to do so. I'd like to inform you that the prime minister is working for us in a town, as you call it, is at a meeting for the currency lords. I'd also like to remind you that he's gonna be sitting here for answers during an unprepared question period on Thursday. Then I hope we'll be here as much as possible and listen to some useful, good conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u24	Mr. President. Thank you very much. President for doing his part trying to get the Honourable Minister here for a meeting. He deserves it, but I threw it to the top. When I gave a short speech earlier, I asked a president. I asked the highest. In view of the importance of the matter, the president would be unable to assume that the two would be the highest. Ministers, at least One of them, the highest. Prime Minister or secretary of finance after an incident gave the council a verbal report on the situation. I'd appreciate it if I did. The president would answer that question. On the one hand, I'd like to ask the highest. President, because I agree to his romantic wishes in his address at the beginning of a meeting that hopefully we'll be able to finish what needs to be concluded and in time and in the council's plan: President informed me if the highest. The prime minister has informed him that there is a great crisis that needs to be passed through this council before it leaves and enters the summer?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u25	For queries why. The senator would like to state that he understood that a certain arrangement was under way here that would have been set up to ensure its arrival. Councilmen consider the information of currency to be reasonable and reasonable in the respect of that arrangement. For other matters of nature. A senator inquired that it would likely be necessary to deliver a matter of Congress that somehow led to the creditors, so the president is of course aware that this would do so. Of course, when exactly that happens is not known by the President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u26	A respectable president. I agree with those who have asked to the highest level. Ministers, either the highest. Prime Minister or Supreme Minister. Financial and economic ministers, and even both, will be here to answer a plan on currency capitals. Of course, only one plan is valid, and it was submitted on March 25, 2011. I feel completely unacceptable waiting until Thursday for the answers from the highest level. Counsellors. I'm waiting for the highest. To make sure that there will be a question period tomorrow or just a special discussion and report, as requested. It is preposterous to wait until Thursday to discuss in the councilroom these two big issues, clumsy debates and a plan of execution which appears to be somewhere, but we don't know about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u27	A respectable president. It has been noted that on Thursday, both Prime Minister and secretary of finance will be in question period. This debate has raised in my head thoughts about the old idea I once tore up here, that there would be a new arrangement for the questioner's appointment, and that we looked even to be special inquiry times for Prime Ministers if there were two categories of administration or ministers who were in charge for the party government, some other arrangement, so that it would be such a time for such inquiry. In general, there has been a general rule that shows that ministers are expected to answer at least once a week. There are two inquiry classes each week, and ministers have tried to make sure that they sat down at least once each week for answers. Now, a respectable president, these both have the highest priority. The Minister will be at the council on Thursday. I understand the impatience and I know it myself when I was in a position of government, but I also remember a number of cases in which I would have liked to see the others and these Ministers from the then government here in the hall to speak with us, but that's how it works. [[The president calls.]] The reason for their absence is revealed. I hope this time it is possible to continue the Senate work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u28	President. I find it very serious that two members of the council and the highest. Ministers from the advance party have announced a summer council. That is contrary to what has been presented in the case of the president. I feel that there is reason to answer the question, "What if the Ministers don't agree with any of the council members or the heads of the clans? " Of course, I would not oppose the fact that the complex matter would be measured and sent out in a review process during the summer, but presenting complicated matters in the dog field is very serious and certainly not in the spirit of what the president of the Parliament has announced. I'd like this to be arranged on the Presidency Committee. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u29	Mr. President. This scene may well be here, huh? The General, if not the scene to discuss approved political conventions or conventions, is not the case, but the highest. Prime Minister is not just some man in town, he is the highest. Prime Minister who announces to the council that there should be a currency resolution and a solution in those matters over the next few days or weeks, he will introduce it to the council after the weekend, so it is not surprising that we are doing so. Councilmen call for the Supreme Court's office. Minister. It's unlikely that people will drag it up here to the highest level. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. Secretary of finance is meeting the men in town. Is it any closer that they'll meet us at night? All of them, and these serious matters go over? [[The president calls.]] Or maybe it's so much. Secretary of the budget and the highest. The prime minister needs to talk privately and be out of town now? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u30	A respectable president. As soon as I'm offering the highest order. The minister of education from China has to say that the ideas of changing queries may in no way excuse the fact that the prime minister and financial minister of the country are not attending this question period and that if they please, they can only show up on Thursday. Unless, of course, the case is so true that the prime minister was not making any statement on Friday, the prime minister was merely restitating the approval of the government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, which the head of the currency and their decommissionment. Of course, we do not need to talk at the meeting. But if a prime minister was trying to bring up some new words, some tax collection of swellings that the last government had not planned, he and the minister of finance and economics should be here to answer for it, especially when an expert in the Independence Party and the collaborate, Vilim Vilhjálmur, has described a total fragility at... [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u31	A respectable president. Often, it is gold that stumbles from the lips of people in a church hall and not always that you catch them when they fly here. I thought there was an interesting wording. paritaprevir When Ríkharðsdóttir's daughter used to talk about the regional assembly of candidates - a convention, and what came from it was a group that was beginning to conclude in their town, she spoke of a convention. [[Arrangement for the Housing Council.]] There, the chairman of the Independence Party is talking about a national meeting of the collaborators. [[Up front.]] It is very interesting and just fine for all of us to listen when wording is used in that way. I want to pray to the highest. The president is making up for the understanding that was presented earlier in his case on the Council's Work Programme. It's very important. Clearly, putting the topv is also important. Minister has room with it, including No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Minister of Harðardóttir Harderdó, that ministers do not report the summer council in the media. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] They may feel that they can, because they are ministers, but that is not the case in the state of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u32	V.E.G. President. I have learned over the years that sometimes the public doesn't understand what we're talking about here at the council. In these days, we've been getting a huge case into our discussion, we're all up to our heads, we're now making declarations about how we're going to get out of the currency school - but it's not discussed at the council. This is interpreted as a lack of interest by members of Congress to discuss the matter or benefit of individuals in the community. People don't realize that there are very limited opportunities to discuss such a matter. Now that we are on the fiveth anniversary of a report by the Commission specifically discussing the need to strengthen the rank of the General Assembly and to reduce the Ministership, we will witness that every week the prime news will come from the current highest level. A government in which the powers of the Council are being reduced. This will keep the Council from getting information or discussion on big issues, thus hindering our opportunity to establish a program for the public in this country. [[The president calls.]] We are forced to discuss a meeting with the president in order to present such matters. This needs to be changed, and we all need to do so. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u33	V.E.G. President. I want to come up here to agree with those who have criticized that neither the highest. The first meeting is held after a two - week intermission. As we have seen in the cases of those who have spoken before me, society has such dramatic issues as strikes and speculations. Congress officials as well as the public of the country on where we are headed for the decommissioning of the currency stand after the statement. Prime Minister. I don't think it's good enough to get to the top. Ministers will drag it until the end of the first week of Congress to attend an unprepared question period. So I think it's a pretty good idea that missed it. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar of having an unprepared query period tomorrow. [[The president calls.]] We can't let these matters go out the week.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u34	A respectable president. One of the main reasons why humans are here is to speak to the highest. Prime Minister is his word about the currency capital, one of Iceland's biggest interests. This is where we hear the news. A minister would be a town-stabbler, as it is said, to discuss the exact currency of any other group of people than that of the high Council. I'm wondering if it's the highest. The prime minister may consider that the Council does not have more important institutions to discuss this matter, especially in the light of the fact that these are meeting committees and other matters that you would have thought were relevant. I knew, I knew, I knew, I knew, I knew, I knew, I knew, I knew, I knew, I knew, I knew, I knew, I knew, I knew, I knew, I knew. The prime minister did not say that there would be a meeting at 2 p.m. 15 today? Did he not know that there would be an unprepared question period? Did he say that the members of the council here did not want to discuss the matter? Or did he just care?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u35	A respectable president. It'll always be embarrassing and embarrassing. I'm on a board of decommissions committee and she's been meeting occasionally. I was in the meaning of the days that there should be some intelligent action on that committee. I am, of course, bound to believe in what is going on there, but after the weekend's declarations from the highest point of view. Prime Minister, I'm just one big question mark. I don't know what play I'm in this board of talks. If the highest. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. A minister of finance is interested in building trust, and if they really believe that it is important to be decommissioned in political discussions, it is of infinite importance that they are here now. But where are they? So they are in town to discuss the seas. It's like they're really good at trying to make fools out of us all here. [[The president calls.]] What is this meeting about the seas? Why am I not there? [[Taken out on: right.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u36	Mr. President. This is one of our biggest interests, but I'd also like to come here and I'd like to express concern that this isn't the government's executives to answer when it's almost total strike, a huge fight, and another trip has become a serious problem in the Land Hospital. Of that matter, little has been said by the prime minister, except that he seems to have one hand and one hand to abandon the building of a new hospital's Ringtrack and move it, from what I hear, to the TV house. The advance team has given full support to the ongoing struggle. I would have felt very important that he would come here to tell us how he's going to put this into words and make the health system work completely again. I can't help it with some serious strikes in the fall. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. It's not like we're being cut off from the government in this way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u37	As an answer, Minister of Education and Culture, Industrial and Business Ministers and Social and Housing Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u38	A respectable president. V.E.G. The Minister of Education and Culture went to China last month and was there with a representative of the company Energy Energy, which, as it happens, was on the payroll of counselling with that company when he was outside the council. At the Ministry's Web, it appeared to the highest level. Ministers have represented Marel and Energy, but it was actually changed on the website on April 8, saying that the representatives of the companies were in China and were not part of the Minister's embassy. I'd like to start by asking the highest. Minister: Why was this changed to the Ministry's Web? What food was involved? What misdeeds were made in the previous edition? It seems so fitting in the world that past types of such things also exist. This company is working on energy related tasks in Asia and reports that there was a meeting with the minister during his stay in China. Who took the initiative that Orcs Energy would join us on this journey? Where does that decision lie? Then I want to ask the highest. Minister: What did his counseling include? What did the minister advise the company to do, and what did it cost them to do? How long ago did the Minister accept money from this company, the prospective minister/ counsellor? Were the specific advice given by the minister/ counselor to the company for discussion at the China Summit?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u39	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the inquiry. As for the first team of the inquiry, about the Ministry's Web, it was not modified but updated, as I have understood, i.e. Information was added because the original text had caused a misunderstanding about the two enterprises, i.e. Energy Energy and Marel, would have been involved, and they could have understood that they had come with us to an Icelandic embassy. Even the shoes were made to pay for this company. Not so, the representatives of these companies were in China at this time, and that actually explains the changes as well. A senator asks about. As to the part on which counseling should be given. There's a senator here to help me clean up the years I was out of Congress, and in other ways I had to earn a living with a private citizen, a company, actually more than one, a few. I have to state that, in itself, I have no obligation to tell it specifically, but since then. A senator asked that question, so I helped there to find out how to link this company to investors in Singapore. It is proper to state that this company is composed so that at this time it was in the majority of the people who are not Icelanders, foreigners. There are no Icelandic dollars in this company. In fact, it is proper to note that this company has purchased jobs by Icelandic scientists and experts several billion years ago, resulting in increased economic growth in the country and has given Icelandic experts and scientists a wonderful opportunity to do their jobs. As for the initiative, in my field of work there are contracts that work together in the energy field, the scientific research under which they are involved. As a result, it was quite natural for this company to come to, i.e. has come to meetings, because the weight - bearing river in Iceland and China's relationships with energy science and energy cohesion is running through it. I was certainly interested in this trip, as if others had been able to see what the projects were in Baoing, a friend town of Hafnarfjörður as the highest. former minister knows who he is. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That explains the part... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u40	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Ministers to their answers as far as they could go. So I came to understand from the minister to take the initiative that this fleet in China had come from him himself, that he had considered it normal and defending that he took the initiative to make such a team. I do not agree that this is normal in view of what has been presented. I'm asking the highest. Another minister: Who owns Energy? Is it Icelandic or foreign? How are corporate property proportions? Who, then, were the members of the people who paid Illugi the wages for Gunnarsson's son while he was working as a counselor?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u41	A respectable president. I told you before, there is no Icelandic person who owns these companies, these are all people who live abroad or who are foreign people, in fact, at this time, it is in the majority of foreign property. I have to say, as it is, I find a little interesting to listen to this inquiry each time. Senator. It's as if you're trying to make it suspicious that you work for private companies. I know why. A senator doesn't know it, does not have that experience.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u42	What?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u43	Hv. A senator according to his CV had never worked for anyone private but only for the government. I have also worked for the government; for example, I served at the University of Iceland, where I accepted a salary. There were delegates from the University of Iceland on their way, there were three university drivers on this trip. There is no way to be suspicious of the fact that even though I worked for that institution, the president of that school was there. I'd also like to say, as it is, that what really matters here is, everything was on the table. There's a possibility that at this time I was working for this company. I believe that it is normal for senators to earn them when they are not at the council, and I am very proud of their work. This company has purchased services from European scientists and counselors for billions in recent years, thereby laying the foundation for economic growth. [[The president calls.]] On the other hand, I know what to say. A senator with interest. I have to say, as it is, that I am proud to have shared in giving Icelandic scientists and Icelandic experts the opportunity to make use of their knowledge. [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]] [[The president calls.]] I've counted right up to now, just like Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, just like hell. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson, just like what. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, just like a dog. paritaprevir Guðbjartur Hannesson, to be present at the exact signing of this same company's contracts, so... - And not on pay in this case. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] These are all indignities, and I have to say, as it is, that it's strange to listen to it at the moment. A senator how these indignities... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u44	The president asks why. Councilmen and the highest. Minister to observe deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u45	A respectable president. In a letter as highest. The minister of education and culture wrote to rural areas in the South at the beginning of this year, which are the rurality, the miseries of the East and the Thermal Year's Council, all of which have access to the Torfajökul region, the importance of the keeping of the Torifjöls and that will be remembered as a distraction for an application for the region of UNESCO's world repercussessphere. The letter says, with the permission of the president: So they need to be on guard with the new organization that no new land is broken under construction and a service core will continue working with affected territories, such as the Landsaver. The location or memory of the World Memorial is of great importance to tourism in areas around the world and to experience in the countries around us that locals and rural groups are reaching out for such places. Large demands are set up for the areas in which the state wants to enter the World Memorial Index. At the same time I welcome this statement to the highest degree. A minister in the letter dated on January 7, I would like to ask the following questions: Is this a manifestation of government policy against uninjured areas? Do not these same arguments apply to a number of other areas, such as Iceland's central height, an explosion, or the state of the winter, for example, by some government representatives in recent losses and years?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u46	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. As for this, I just want to say, it's natural to say that when you consider the possibility that land may be registered on a world calendar, it's the viewpoint I've described. Such recognition is vital. It is relevant to the area itself, individual nature, history, and so forth, but it also has a lot of value when it comes to tourism and such. Tourists are eager to examine such places because they have great value. I don't think there's anything beyond what I've been describing in this regard. Because these ideas exist, this view stands entirely for its own ends.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u47	A respectable president. This may be a better answer than I expected because the reasoning was at its height. A minister gathered in his letter from January 7, is very pointed and very decisive. They agree entirely with the argument we feel about natureists have held against unscrupulous areas, both here on Mountain, that is the region in which the letter is addressed, and when it comes to the central areas and the Red Seas, which are often protected because it has much, not just a cultural significance for the nation, but also a very lucrative interest when it comes to travel services, etc. My question to the highest. Minister is as follows: Does not the same clear reasoning apply to other areas of life?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u48	A respectable president. Of course, such areas differ. Their value of protection varies from one to the other in terms of energy efficiency and then land protection, as well as that which is always greater and more driving discussions, i.e. other usefulness, e.g. The round and the traffic of tourists, both from abroad and from abroad. Such views need to be viewed too. What I want to emphasize is that my attitude in this matter and, of course, as reflected in this letter is a guide in that if you are reaching the world's mines, there are certain viewpoints that are underlying, and as a result you need to consider some aspects of all the processes, applications, and such. It would be too far gone, then, to omit from this letter on other factors or other things that the letter does not contain. There are some specific cases.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u49	Mr. President. In a fine talk that the president began a meeting, he encouraged the delegates to set priorities and organization, and we have done so in a hurry. The welfare committee. We were prepared to take over areas of housing. There are four members of Congress, yet it has been announced that one of them will be made available until the autumn. Now it is only two cases. Another is the bill for a change in rents and the other change in housing law. Both primes end with the same phrase: It is not expected that legalization of the bill will lead to spending for the government's funds. The big budget bill on housing improvements and stock grants is missing. It has taken two years to make this work, and it should be in view of the importance of consulting. This seems to have been a failure to consult the two major tenants of the country, both in public service, in student society, and in social clubs, for they say that if rent laws become an issue of law, the operation will be upset. So this was how it was discussed. In terms of the big mortgage and the establishment sector, it is a fundamental issue to ensure housing security and establish an active lease, but it does not seem to be available. V.E.G. The social and housing minister has personally called attention to it by some kind of performance, where it sends a delivery to staff with energy rods and encourages it to do his job. I assume a minister knows as well as I do that the government's unwillingness is not to be accused of government officials. And I'm going to ask the highest. Minister: How did she agree with the development of these bills and have the government's support in her case on housing and stock supply? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u50	A respectable president. Like what? paritaprevir Ingadóttir Ingjörgdótir knows well, since she was a representative of the project on the future planning of housing until she decided to quit, was appointed a large team of cooperaters, and actually suggested that all who would be interested in meeting the proposals for housing had a chance to send representatives. Then, in fact, it was further extended because of the division of tasks and the formation of four different groups, and ended by each agent being able to appoint four representatives into it. Then they ask why. A senator for consultation, and I think it's right to interpret a question. After the proposal was accepted, the senator will return to the discussion and begin working with them on the bill. This was in various ways and is specified, including. in the report with the primary projections on which parties were consulted. But I'll admit it, and I hope it is. A senator respects it to me that since I'm renting myself, the bill of rent may reflect more emphasis on tenants and taking a position with them than on taking a position with rent sales. We are now simply reviewing comments. The matter now lies before the council, and hopefully I'll have the opportunity to recommend it as quickly as possible. A senator can comment on these two basics, making the changes needed if the senator feels that it is right to agree with them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u51	Mr. President. Just to explain it out of the top. Ministers, then, are these so - called rented halls, which are unions in public service just to consider the interests of tenants when they criticize the bill. But now, in fact, the main question I didn't get the answer to at the highest. Minister. Does the government support the Minister's plans to expand the support of tenants and public servants in order to secure housing and an effective tenant? Or is this her personal matter? You have to think about it when you see in the way a minister has decided to treat the staff involved in this case. But the main question is, and I request an answer from the highest level. Minister: If there is support for the matter, and when can we expect it to enter the council, because if there is support, there is no point in putting it in here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u52	A respectable president. I'll admit, I don't quite understand what's wrong. A senator applies to my attitude toward members of the Board of Directors. [[Up front.]] If it is no longer appropriate to send a card to hardworking people or even gifts, I do not know exactly where we have come from. The four-year national budget makes it clear that housing matters are one of the government's key issues, and I encourage them. To study the text at that time, there was a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u53	Mr. President. The pensions of the elderly and disability have been frequently frozen at the same time as the lowest salary has increased. This is called bradycardia. I'd like to ask a minister if he finds the need for the elderly, many of whom, to know that that he will immediately correct that unsatisfying period for 2009-2013, justified. The older citizens of this country - which count thousands and trust almost exclusively in pay or in insurance benefits - are one of the very few non-contracted groups. They do not come to the table when other earners of the country achieve their pay, as we stand before them today, they do not have this right. What can they say? They can't say, " We're going into a strike. ' They cannot say: Should we stop being old? We're out. We're in a strike. It's not working. Is the minister aware of this situation? Has she been thinking that? Has she thought of some ways that older citizens and poorer groups who do not have this right can come to the table when they are being paid and in position, we saw in the budget, started to go to 3.5% but dropped in the treatment of the council to 3%. I had a fine meeting with an older citizen in Reykjavík recently, and in Denmark, it is a free association organization, such as ASI in the country, that ensures that they can only come to the table. Is there anything a minister can do with a Regulation or what? Are there tools that a minister has, and even legislation to assist older citizens and others who accept government reforms, to improve the level in their choice? And how does the Minister feel about this? Does he feel that it is proper to correct this quality?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u54	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. In the 69th. Social security law is just a special arrangement to increase improvement and how to act on it. I would also like to point out that in my mind, there is a prerequisite for all the welfare and social insurance that are a natural key element in the Icelandic welfare system - work, that we add the status of the people in the labour market, because that is what pays the taxes that we have to make, to add further to the payment and other aspects of the welfare system. There must be some way we are going to improve the interests of people in a general labour market. This will hopefully lead to an increase in income entering the state's budget, and it's all there is to it, after this weekend and after the conclusions and jobs of members at the applicant's platoon, that it will be one of our key issues to fighting for the better pensioners.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u55	Mr. President. Yeah, all right. Still, it is still lacking. If we look at it in the light of the baseline Pirata, which I think most people can agree on, that everyone has a right to make decisions that are relevant. People in a general labour market have the right to make decisions about their wages, and they are legally created by a contract that strengthens their standing for the contract. This is not available for older citizens, it is not available for micro-organism. That's what I'm trying to figure out, whether the Minister was thinking it, and whether he's open to finding other ways, although only if older citizens can get to sit at the table on some basis, more than today, when making decisions about their welfare, about their terms. I think the highest. Ministers have answered the things as well as they will, but I pray her very much to answer them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u56	Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. It's now a front committee. paritaprevir Blöndalur H. Farmals, who is exactly designed to reexamine the social security system. They have older citizens and desperate representatives sitting at the table and working out suggestions on how to improve their terms. I'd also like to remind you, and the last government must own what it has, according to the numbers we have then, was exactly -- and there was something that was true here at the council - the place where public security guards were paid when men were standing here in a very difficult cuts. I have also stressed this in my work as a minister, and I know that when the proposals are presented, there will be great agreement here at the council to improve the quality of these groups.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u57	Mr. President. During the winter of a discussion, the credit card has been high on the subject of both responsible and responsible ones, but also the status of students in general. Not long ago, members of Congress received a letter from a group of students, medical students, who complained about the change in distribution regulations from the Icelandic Board of Students. But this debate may not have made enough flights here at the council, for it is announced in the Government Constitution that prior to March 26, a new total law on the Icelandic loan fund is to be submitted. Today, March 26th has passed, and there is no room for a new global law on the credit fund of Icelandic students. Since 1991, open - minded laws have long since come to an overall need for reexamination. In fact, I put in my own bill for a full reexamination of the law on the Icelandic Board of Colleges (U.S. were presented for changes in older responsibilities, and new loans were added so that a portion of student loans would become strong if students met certain academic requirements. That's why it was actually kind here at the council of different categories, so I expected it to be the highest. The Minister of Education and Culture would adopt the ideas that were on the other side of both the student movement, but also the labour market and the labor movement and the rest of the community. We didn't get to see any of that bill at last council, and now I'm asking the highest. Minister: Are we expecting an overall review of the Icelandic Board of Students at this council? What's taking so long for that to happen? Now we're past the last delay. The case is large and extensive, and everyone agrees that an overall inspection is timely. What's holding this up?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u58	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the question. Hv. In his inquiry, the senator spoke that there was a bill on the loan and that the interviewers had been consulted. There was one member who was not listed in this second most excellent list, which was then the Ministry of finance, because there was a big difference in the ratings available from the highest level. that would be a minister of education at the cost of this bill and then the Ministry's assessment. In today's work, try to be very careful to look to the cost that may come from the changes that are taking place. I believe that this is of great importance, especially in view of the recent developments in the Icelandic loan fund that suggest that in recent years the status of the fund and the risk of loans that it is facing are growing. This is shown in the assessment and should be kept very close. Sadly, it was not taken into consideration at the time, but the current government has changed the loan rule and others are doing what can be done within the framework to strengthen and support the fund. But it's absolutely necessary, and that's what we are. A senator agrees, that there is a law on the loan fund, but it must be performed so that there is a reasonable agreement between the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the costs of such legislation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u59	Mr. President. I'm very worried about the greatest communication problem. Secretary of finance for the Minister of his government. V.E.G. A social and housing minister was about to send the Minister's staff a power bar to promote them, as she put it. And here comes the highest. In fact, a minister of education up here, saying that he is very concerned about bringing up total loan laws, as if I'm also very interested in being done, which is where the Ministry of finance is. I couldn't understand a word of the highest. Minister's different. I can't believe he's only testifying that he was a discrepancy in what the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of finance considered to be 2012 in terms of the cost of the bill. Presumably, it's the highest. Then a minister to say that he is prepared to propose a full law but is waiting for a financial answer. I'm going to the top. Education Ministers are also about to send donations to the Ministry of finance and its employees for financial support or for the highest level of proposals. Secretary of education? Now I think it's important to find out where the matter is, if it's at the top. Minister of Education or the Supreme Minister. Secretary of finance. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u60	A respectable president. It is not easy to put in prime warnings if you are not concerned about the cost and miss the financial department in such a way that when the bills are discussed at the council, they act like a bill. Senator, now the highest. Minister, for discussion. [[Up front.]] This was not available to discuss it because the financial cost it paid was very different from the cost it cost at that time. A senator believed that the bill would succeed. [[Up front.]] When these things are being won, it is better to recognize the cost. But it must also be looked to as if the funds have been getting worse. It must be said at the moment that the decisions made in the last government must, of course, be considered, which were falling to undermine the financial resources of the fund, which led to an increase in the need for a contribution from the state's funds to the fund. [[Up front.]] Of course, this needs to be evaluated, and it has already been done in part. The key point is that when you bring bills into the council, you need, of course, to make sure that there is a relationship between the highest level of the council. A minister says that it costs and then the cost of what the Ministry of finance says. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The other is easy to present a bill where it's missing. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u61	V.E.G. President. It's all right to the highest. The Minister of Education and Culture is here. You see, I'd like to direct it to the highest level. President said he'd agree to get answers from the highest level. The Ministry of Education and Culture on matters that I've been asking repeatedly, first by email in September, again, with a written inquiry in December of this, about the University of Agriculture of Innna and the plans that exist there. No response has been received, and it is no longer on the highest list. President to explain where the case stands. A team has now started the establishment of an automaton all over the University of the Northwestern Kingdom, Bifrost, Innunciation, and Hola School. I've been looking for it on the Ministry Network to see how the order is in that group or what the basis for it was given. There's nothing public about it. Yet, there have been conferences in which such work is being started, and reports on this have been received in the media. This is yet another example of disregarding the Honourable Minister on the grounds of what? The General Assembly of the Icelanders. [[The president calls.]] I'd like that especially at the highest. The president said he would agree that these answers would come to him.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u62	A respectable president. You're absolutely right. A senator, it is unacceptable that these answers have not been received. I'm going to make a clockfall to it. A senator receives the answers he deserves. Hv. A senator correctly explained that the work he pointed out is now being carried on. I can immediately inform them that those involved represent from the university and its owners and the local government in which these universities are located, along with representatives from my department. It endeavored to have as a broader group of those who are interested in this matter. When it comes to changing the law, if it comes to uniting this university or making any changes, it will enter the council with a bill that we can discuss here the benefits of the pros and cons, whether they want to go that way or not, i.e. make the necessary adjustments. I reiterate, a respectable president, that there is no doubt about it. A senator has not received these answers, and I will quickly make sure that they are received.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u63	V.E.G. President. Here, the government directors are not here to answer unsubstantiated queries. We have three ministers here. I asked the highest. The social and housing minister is a fairly simple question. She chose not to answer it; nor did she refer to a Senate document published, which I have read. There is no firm contribution or support for housing matters. I suggest, Mr President, when the Ministers are not prepared to attend this meeting or not be prepared to respond to any inquiries they receive until the Ministers first trust in coming, and secondly, they come prepared and offer acceptable answers rather than references to something that is nothing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u64	A respectable president. Senators often disagree with ministers'answers, but that was still an answer. I need to direct a specific question to the senator: Why is it so frustrating? Is it not possible for people to be happy with us progressives for having had a fine, joyful, successful, and successful convention of a convention in which we agreed on many good matters? I kind of feel like there's a little bit of joy in the Senate. And it is perfectly clear that the premises - yes, that could be the explanation. [[Up front.]] However, it is clear that housing issues are and continue to take priority. I've been completely informed, from the highest. Prime Minister, the highest. Secretary of finance and the entire government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u65	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for coming into the discussion and acknowledging the need to send in some answers. What I've been asking for and I'm writing about is just getting the evidence that I know he's been getting into the discussion about the Inndistinction. I want those files so I can discuss them in public, so I can participate in the discussion. They're some kind of secret stuff. I've asked for this, first of all, very polite as a representative of the suit. The Board of Public Affairs and Education, e-mailed because I didn't mean to make a big deal out of this, I was just gonna get the data. I don't get an answer. I'll ask in writing, and it'll be months. At the same time, there's a group, says the highest. A minister who should consider if something should be done together. The Senate is kept out of this. It is being transformed into an Icelandic education system without any creation at all by the Allied Congress of Iceland. That's what's serious, and that's what this discussion is about. You are slow to anger, but you cannot be expected to participate in a discussion about something that is only outside the council and that is not given at the highest level. Counsellors. [[The president calls.]] This is not a matter of pleasing a minister, as stated here; it is a matter of pleasing the public in the country with what we are doing. [[The president calls.]] [[Set up on the move, and the forward party.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u66	A respectable president. Something is wrong. When and if the time comes for any adjustment in the university, for unity or for any other, a change in law is needed. Then there is a bill, and there are three discussions about it. In these discussions, why not? A senator, like all other senators, took a full part. The senator must know this from his long existence here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u67	We're talking about...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u68	I've told you before, it's unacceptable. A senator has not yet received an answer to his inquiry, but what? A senator must know that various committees can be held by the Ministry without making it so hard to believe that the council would not be there. It is perfectly normal for such a work to take place. When the matter is then taken to the point that they must be introduced into a panel in the form of a prime project, of course, the political treatment of the matter will take place. That's what I'm talking about. A senator knowing each other.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u69	What about his surveillance?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u70	A respectable president. Here, ministers sit in an unsubstantiated question period and get queries that they try to answer in one way or another. Then we are senators, those who ask or some other person who disagrees with the answers. Here we go. paritaprevir Sigríður Ingadóttir for intermission so people can prepare for unprepared queries. [["A little good idea."]] I'm sorry, what kind of shit are we in this room? Is it not true that people participate in unsubstantiated requests and respond to the answers given? If you don't like them, they can next make written inquiries. Don't talk down to people like this, but the one standing in a pit every time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u71	A respectable president. I agree with what. paritaprevir Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir, they're not supposed to talk to people and act like everyone else's an idiot, but I think it's very important that we senators can assume that the Supreme Court. Ministers will answer our questions in a clear way. Hv. paritaprevir Sigríður Ingadóttir asked him the highest. The secretary of the house to see if her housing bills were supported by the government. V.E.G. A minister pointed to the State's Budget Program, expecting to prove that the bills were supported. It says in one sentence that these suggestions are being worked on. There is another who says that if a collective agreement breaks loose, it may not be successful. It was at the top. Minister didn't say yes or no? V.E.G. The minister did not answer the question, and that is unacceptable. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u72	Said the Minister who answered nothing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u73	A respectable president. We've been in an unprepared question period. I discussed matters relating to national housing security and rent - rent housing conditions. It may be at the top. Ministers feel tired of women, I don't know anything about it, but it's not the big problem we're dealing with, whether or not I'm in here being a Campak after the forward party council, but the big deal is that there's a situation at the tenure market. I was complaining to Mr. President that here ministers might not be prepared - this is indeed an unprepared question period, but it must be possible to assume that the Ministers have not prepared answers to basic questions in their media.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u74	A respectable president. I'm quite clear that I'm really sorry if anything happened. paritaprevir Sigríður Ingadóttir is annoying. However, she has more interesting women in general when she's not upset, so I hope I can explain the matter here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u75	I can't live under this, Mr. President. President. I can't sit...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u76	The president asks for a sound in the hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u77	If only I could try to explain my case because that's what this guy is. The senator was asking for the following, when the bills go before the government, they will be shown whether they have support or not. However, as I said, I have found nothing else to do with conversation with my fellow minister, but I have the support of my housing and an understanding of their importance. I also want to state that I have not felt in any way that a minister of finance, such as in a status with a former financial minister, had a custom of stopping matters like that. paritaprevir Oddný Harðardóttir observed in a recent Facebook-status. There's been a lot going on at the Ministry of finance. I don't know better than that men are right now, after Easter break, working full-time at a cost assessment on these big and important matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u78	A respectable president. In this hall, it is often difficult to understand exactly what people mean, except perhaps when they say a five - dollar joke that is usually a failure. I heard it from the highest, though. Minister, unless I've noticed wrong, now she can't answer me so I'll apologize if I've noticed wrongly, but she said that it would be revealed when she put the bills in the government whether she had support to them or not. I have come to realize that there have been marathon meetings in March to discuss just those housing elements that are of enormous importance. I just have to say that I'm surprised that it's not completely clear yet whether there's support for the bills in the government. It is very strange, but I draw attention to that it is not clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u79	V.E.G. President. My request is: Would Ministers reconsider the Ministry's distribution rules on spending money at university, as per the discussion of the latest budget on the issue of mismanagement? The subject of the inquiry, as a review for members of the Parliament, is 2nd. The budget came up with a turnaround of 617 million. K. ... toa university. The University of Akureyri received only 10.3 million of these 617 million, Iceland's University received nearly 300 million, the University of Reykjavík received some 260 million, Iceland's Landing University 17,9 and so on. This exchange was a source of great discussions here at the General Assembly. I remember I said I thought there was something wrong with the Ministry's Excel documents when you could find such a conclusion. As a result, the University of Akureyri at the University of College concluded because of funding to the university level, and in that conclusion, Presidential permission said: It is clear that at the same time as the University of Akureyri has met all public standards, shown major business conferences, and paid up to full slant of previous years, the school should not take pleasure when it comes to raising funds to the university level again [...]. It turns out that the University of Akureyri has over 100 students over the budget today, and it is all about to increase this difference next year, i.e. 2015. The conclusion goes on to say, a respectable president: ▪ The Board of Education declares its wonder at the position that has come up, to limit access and education to the largest university in the country outside the capital area and the third largest university in the country, at the same time as schools in the capital area are paid for seniors in the last few years. Then, with President's permission: ▪ The University of Akureyri has served the whole country through a powerful telecommunications program and has done a large pioneer service in that area. It may be that the University of Akureyri does not get any funding for this vast telecommunication. A respectable president. This was why I allowed me to present the question to the minister I read at the outset in order to have a word with the Minister and to hear his explanation of why the University of Akureyri is being held in the way I have made the talkers and university council of Akureyri have concluded. I am excited to hear an explanation given. Ministers of this, while hoping he'll bring it to the people that they're wrong about it, that even there are some fathers in the Excel papers that have far too much power in the councils at this time. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u80	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the inquiry. I'd like to first state that the Ministry is now working on a whole-scale broad-scale policy for the university and science sector until the age of five. Different aspects of higher education, research, and innovation and the main supporters of the seminary are being taken up. The aim of policy development is to improve the effectiveness, integration, success and quality of the group. The strategy will be the basis for the decision to teach and research in college, including whether the budget of funding, education, and studies in college will be attacked. The current schools' budget has been available to people since 1999, and this has been the first time for the budgeting of the year 2000. The arrangement is based on rules No. 646 from 1999, on funding to college. On the basis of the rules, the Ministry dictates training by means of a calculator, which, for example, is based on the rules. to divide into prices by educational fields, number of annual students, and graduations by individual schools. At the same time, the Ministry in certain cases has taken hold of a specific urgent situation in college with additional funds, such measures as temporary action. Official donations to the university have dropped from 1330 o'clock. K. for each annual student in 2009 to 1,170 you. K. In 2013. Much of this can be explained by the interaction between student growth and system cuts. The number of years increased by 1,745 between 2008 and 2010, resulting in an increase in the number of seniors in Iceland's High School of 1,453. Thus, Iceland's university carried 83% of the increase in the system. In recent years, the reduction in the number of newer schools has weakened the bases of the university. Fundamental bill 2015 endeavored to reverse this trend and take the first steps to make donations for each student closer to what happens in OECD and elsewhere in the North countries. Specific increases in the individual figures of several units were arranged with the goal of strengthening the school's economy and being calculators on the field of computer and math, nurse, social science, and academic studies up to this time. The changes in the figures of the figures vary in the total budget of each school, with the classes being different from those of the students.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u81	A respectable president. I thank the advocate for this important discussion. I was waiting for the highest. Minister would answer the question. A senator but could not hear the answer. So I'm going to reiterate the question. This is about the fact that when this money was being shared out, it was based on the estimated number of students in 2014. The actual number of students in 2014 at the University of Akureyri was far greater than the plan. So the question is: Will the University of Akureyri be improved the difference between the plans and the reals for 2014? It's a simple question. Another thing I'd like to come on, in the short time we have here, is that the budget bill was assumed not to be paid for extracurriculars but to higher financial contributions for each student's worth. In recent years, the ink was hardly dry until the human body had stopped doing so and started paying for extraducation. It's a very vague course. [[The president calls.]] Now university students must ask themselves: " Should we take seniors and trust that we will be improved later, or is it our goal to make contributions to student values? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u82	A respectable president. I want, like, a what? Senator, thank you for this inquiry. I think it is very important to get an answer from the minister to the question raised here. Before Christmas, when we were finishing our budget bill, we were very successful with the government council members and were asking for an explanation of an ignominious contribution, from 617 million. K. The hot tub, to the University of Akureyri. I think it's the only school that's been able to help with reducing employees' wages, dropping departments, etc. However, the school does not receive additional contributions at the time of the year. So I agree with the questions raised here and encourage a minister to give more support to the University of Akureyri than has been done in view of his history. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u83	V.E.G. President. I appreciate this discussion. She's really needed, i.e. to discuss the exact status of the local university, word, and sufficiency regarding the development of the region. Last Friday I was able to attend a report on the workforce development report in Iceland for the next two years, from 2015 to 2017. It revealed that the development of tourism has been almost exclusively controlled by 96%, or 96%, the increase in labour markets. It also stated that the country's environment needs to be improved in management and welcome of tourists, and in particular, increased education in the country's home was needed for tourism workers. In effect, the motto during the discussion was education and quality. That is why it is very important to keep it up, when we discuss whether we go to the Northwestern Kingdom School or to the University of Akureyri, how important it is that we make sure that our education is left in the country and that there are sufficient funds. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u84	Mr. President. I was not much closer in terms of the University of Akureyri matters, especially in spite of listening to an informative lecture. Minister to his general work in this regard. It is unmistakably that the University of Akureyri did a great job when, during his most difficult years, he was also paying up an accumulation of palaces and making up full debt without any special assistance from the state. Then, when it comes to setting the basis for the university's career into the future, mechanical algorithms alone do not work. I believe the Ministry of Education must have some vision also, and it must be seen where the role of a person plans for each educational agency. In view of this, the result of the University of Akureyri was the payment of the last budget, the distribution of the correction pot, incomprehensible. It cannot be said that, in any way, the Ministry of Education, under current management, has an understanding of the tremendously important role that the University of Akureyri has, with the absolute flagship of education at higher schools in the country. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u85	A respectable president. I understood this from a talk at the highest. Ministers that much work was being done to see if the methods used to divide money are correct or not. Still, that was not entirely understandable. I can't understand why men can't, even if they're ministers, think of things. Does the minister believe that the models currently in use meet the needs of the university, the University of Reykjavík, the University of Iceland, or the University of Akureyri? I'd like to ask the highest, too. Minister: How does he feel when a financial committee comes and moves, without any apparent intervention, at a rate of 40 million into the University of Hólar and the schoolmaster there is absolutely amazed and does not know where the weather is? [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] I mean, what do the Minister think? [[The president calls.]] Can he tell me how he feels about these tactics?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u86	Mr. President. V.E.G. The minister of education is usually the highest priority in providing clear answers. Here he is asked very simple questions that he himself could have answered with a single word. Instead, the highest will be chosen. Ministers giving a long talk, reading it very quickly, and for ordinary people it was very difficult to reach a conclusion as to what was best. Minister just told me. That's why I want to bring that peaceful wish to the highest. A minister uses his laziness to dissociate himself into perhaps two phrases in a second answer. Other than that, I love the colleges of Reykjavík and Iceland every cent they get. However, I have to agree with that, and my opinion has already been made that I found the university on the north side of the last budget very severe. Especially when you looked at it as a university that went completely according to what was set before it, and I also have to agree with it. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, of course, that there is a need for a clear set of priorities. [[The president calls.]] And as far as the land is concerned, he is the flagship. [[The president calls.]] This is a university, Mr. President, with a special position regarding, for example, northern lands, which I know at the highest. The President agrees. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u87	V.E.G. President. I'll agree with the last speaker, huh? Skarphéðinsson He's not the only one who didn't understand the reply. I must say exactly as it is, a respectable president, and now I tried to quote the answer, that I could not understand what the Minister was going to do. Just nothing. It may be new policy for the council not to use its time to answer queries, probably done to maintain a work programme, but that is something new. A respectable president. I encourage my sweaty, the highest. The academic minister of Illugi Gunnarsson, in order to make a second answer and tell us clearly: Will the calculus be altered so that the proportions will not be returned in the way that I made the subject, when the University of Akureyri receives only 10.3 million? K. of 617 million. K. extra savings to college? Will the calculus be adjusted to bring about telecommunications? Or is it to be taken out of business somehow and to the flagship of this class, the University of Akureyri, that can't be replaced? A respectable president. If the government is not going to do anything about this, I'm just saying that it will be the best thing to give the High School authorities to run all the colleges in the country because they do it in a very practical and good way, as I said at the beginning, they've met all the conditions. But to this conclusion in terms of the extra funds I've made to talk about and my question was about. Will this model be altered? Will the minister make it necessary for the University of Akureyri to be corrected because of the extra funds and the calculus to correct the school so that the school can continue to grow strong but not always be in need of protection, or will it be a way for the government and at their expense? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u88	A respectable president. First, there has been an increase in donations made to the University of Akureyri. It is absolutely true that this has shown that in the case of special funds. A senator, just over 600 million, was assigned material according to a predetermined rule independent of schools. It saw the massive problem that has developed because students have grown greatly in recent years. The schools are filled with students, the University of Akureyri, and elsewhere, which is really not paid for. So it was decided to attack. Then, the country's largest university, the University of Iceland, has received most of this increase. I went over it in my reply earlier that the University of Iceland had 83% of an increase in the system that occurred between 2008 and 2010, which is the Brotherhood as obvious. Then there's the other, more dignified President, that there's a problem in this world, and there's too much information in here. I would have liked to include in this very answer all the major factors that matter when looking to a similar or the methodology used when sharing some of the money to school. It was called for a vision of the future, for it was lacking. I can say with what. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon says she's missing. During the past decade and perhaps two, we have tried to increase the number of students mainly because we were following other nations in their interests. In contrast, there is a turning point, and a new view must be made in this regard, and that work is at hand. A respectable president. Because this call was called for even clearer or simpler answers than has been given to them, I will try to do what I can in it. The answer is no, I will not change one or any of the things that have already been done and accepted in the Council, which is a sign. We're looking at these models, of course. However, there was a general transparent operation to try to solve the problem that arose in the university system all that was not paid for by students. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This was done in a general way. [[The president calls.]] That's what matters. They did not make a special decision in school.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u89	A respectable president. I'm going to use this chair to apologize for my conduct. After a talk, I had a forward call. paritaprevir Oddný new G. Harðardóttir. That's my forward call, it's not good, and I'm waiting. paritaprevir It's a G. Harðardóttir's apology for that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u90	V.E.G. President. My second request to the highest. The Minister of Education is about, as the President has described, the condition of the college fund: 1st Is it in the spirit of the law of college to be conditioned, as at the last budget set for the University of Akureyri? 2. Will a wise minister stress the circumstances involved? A respectable president. There was a lot of discussion with the 3rd. Funds when members of Parliament realized that more of the budget committees, make clear that there was more and probably only one member of the body from the greater part, sharp. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, used himself to make the following suggestion on the 3rd. The budget, by permission of the President: A proposal is made about 30 million. K. A donation to the University of Akureyri. One, 20 million. K. a contribution to further education in polar rights so far has been taught only every second year because of lack of funds, despite the fact that students have been involved and that the study has brought good results. However, there are 10 billion. K. in order to make it easier for the school to finance research, the loss of permanent teachers. To make a long story short, at least twice the final payment of money has been tried to correct something for the university of 30 million. K. a donation, 2013 and 2014, that was to become permanent. However, this was not in the process of making the last budget, but it was simply incomprehensiblely inserted from a greater portion of the legal committee, which divided themselves from the way the University of Akureyri selects a student's offer. That's amazing. Then we had the discussion, including ... fromwhat. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, this is against university law. My question is asked because it was an unjudged operation from the hand of these parties. paritaprevir Höskuldur son of Þórhallsson also made a special attempt to try to defend it. A respectable president. The university authorities in Akureyri were very disappointed to learn of this requirement from the chairman of the budgetary committee. They never talked to a university driver, never ever. There was no more detailed explanation of this, but of course, at the school's head of law, in public college, being able to do it yourself and to do it yourself. During the short time I have to ask this inquiry and support my question that I read earlier, I asked if it is appropriate for a minister to feel that it is appropriate and if there is any change to be permanent, to a financial committee, or to the individual members of a legal committee, to tell the university how he should conduct his work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u91	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. I suppose that's what it is. A member of the general body is here referring to an explanation of legal matters presented in the Committee on the II Board of Shepherds. As shown on page 4, the 2015 budget is provided for a discussion. 211 and 212 in printed editions of the budget. It shows that, as we have been told, 20 million. K. a donation is intended for teaching polar rights and 10 billion. K. it would have been designed to facilitate the school's spending on the loss of permanent teachers. It shows that a section of the University of Akureyri of 617 million. K. An increase in education at the university is 10.3 million. K. which will be added to a special 463 billion. K. a contribution to promotion of business opportunities for college schools. This is what we've been talking about. Hv. In view of the level of independence guaranteed by the law of the university, a senator wondered whether it is the role of a financial committee and Generalis to recommend the emphasis on the University of Akureyri. 63/2006. In 1st. 2.g. The law states that university is an independent educational institution that has its teaching, its research, its preservation of knowledge, knowledge search, and creation in scientific fields, education, technology development, or art. The role of university is to promote the creation and the sharing of knowledge and skills to students and society. This is shown in 3 mg. 2.g. The law says the university is in charge of its operation and decides how it works best. It's so in the lyrics. On the other hand, the World Congress decision has now been made on the budget approved by most of the council. I'm not going to give that conclusion any other grade but just what's going on here. [[Up front.]] No, I don't think it's right to do that. This is the case with Generalis. The second question. There was a senator who said whether to go to the highest level. A minister in the congregation is known as a ministerial servant who is known as a ministerial servant and who is known as a ministerial servant. Then it is to take into account the Ministry of Education and Culture to follow the above conditions of budgeting to the University of Akureyri. This subject is discussed in Article 21. College law. This is shown in 1 mg. that a minister is permitted to make contracts for three to five years at the same time for training and research in college that have been recognized by the Ministry. Such contracts are a requirement for funding to the university. Two. The same law states that in a university contract, the definition of the educational and research that the state fund pays for, the main focus of university and conditions for which the Ministry puts up funding for the university. In addition to public colleges, such as the University of Akureyri, no. 82/2008. In 1st. 24th par. Their law says that each university has its own budget but that a minister proposes to prepare budgets for each university to meet expenses for education, research, and other projects. According to this, it can be assumed that the focus of the budget board and the Generals will be discussed in the process of a contract between the Ministry and the School, according to Article 21. Law on University, No. 63/2006. However, I would like to say in addition to a more dignified president, that, of course, I think it makes me feel better that we have this in a more solid frame. There are many cases of changes that have been made in the last few minutes, of evaluating and discussing them, whether this was a convenient problem or not. It's just in the way, this is the situation, and we have to work on the basis of the budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u92	A respectable president. I'd like to highlight it at the highest. Ministers that these 30 million are coming into the budget next year, so we are not dealing with this every year and spending countless hours on it. It's been well explained here that the University of Akureyri has done very well in business and would be good if all government agencies had equally disciplined financial management. I'm worried about one thing, and it's just what we were talking about, and I think it's really important to reiterate that the 617 million changed, that the University of Akureyri estimated the student population by 2014 much less than it did. It's a very strange thing if it's not to be corrected because it's just starting to look like something. So you're just going to figure something out? I will keep an eye on this matter, and we will be in the district especially because it will be incomprehensible if this is not corrected from the real world. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u93	A respectable president. I also agree and reiterate what my colleagues have said about these conditions and whether a minister intends to change them. It would also be interesting to know if he will support himself, because we were already discussing the changes in calculations because of funding to the university, that this is a constant contribution, and whether the university will obtain research loss, which was requested. There seemed to be an agreement that if 30 million were set out in a certain way, they would get in. Did a minister of his own have any influence on how these 30 million were divided, or was the decision of a greater proportion of legal committees to do this? Will Ministers consider this to be a constant contribution, as I say, and see why he adds to his loss of research in Akureyri? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u94	Mr. President. Of course, like others, I am stressing the cost of college because of the loss of researched teachers, who have to enter the university's financial base permanently. Those who know the history of the case see the contrast between this requirement for the greater part of the legal committee and I think it should be a hell to avoid. It must not happen again that the Council is so complete that it ignores clear aspects of the university law and its independence in decisions about education or when it is enrolled. For example, if the funds were intended to intervene and make decisions on this matter, it might be unsatisfactory that at times it can be recorded and sometimes not. There has been no lack of ambition at the University of Akureyri to further its operations in the Arctic and thus to teach Arctic rights. Of course, it would be welcome if the funds were to enable the school to stand there handsomely still. [[The president calls.]] But this is not to be at the expense of regular teachers at the University of Akureyri who receive comparable rights for study licenses as well as for other public universities. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u95	V.E.G. President. I'm going to grab this opportunity and enter the discussion about the conditions that are given. It's a legal committee. I think it's extremely important that we try to have a clear process, which in what way to make decisions about individual categories of subjects, in this case of education. We're gonna see in some part of a committee party. Legal committees literally have educational policies. I'd like to hear what's at the highest. The Minister of Education and Cultures finds it when it comes in there without the fact that this case has ever been discussed, for example, in a global and educational committee. I'll advertise a man's making education, bringing a policy that aims into the water. General, get a discussion on it, so that's where it's at the highest level. A minister can have a backland for such a full conference, and he can handle things there and discuss them in public conversation in the community. One of the most important things we need is just a powerful education policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u96	V.E.G. President. I'm so happy to be able to come by and say thank you. Minister for the answer and use of the opportunity to thank other members of the council for participating in this discussion and highlighting what was in my inquiry, and I have made this subject a subject, i.e. ... theunjustimpairofthecompliment of 30 billion. K. The training for the University of Akureyri and how it was conditioned. When I say thank you very much. When a minister read from law columns and other sources that were completely out of harmony with what more part of the legal committee suggested, I took the answer. We couldn't get a special chairman of a legal committee to change this nonsense and make it 30 million. K. a donation that would not be understood, and that the university authorities in Akureyri would take care of it as they thought - as the law says. In a way, the highest. Further, a minister quoted these laws by referring to the chairman of the legal committee and the majority of the committee for the work done there. You can ask, a respectable president, and I'd like to pray to the highest level. A minister to answer in the second answer: If, for example, that happens to no students, or not enough people apply to the Arctic rights for this year, does the fund fail? Or can college use it? This is an important point. The minister can answer this question and minister will be involved in bringing in a budget where he can take those conditions back and let the university know immediately that these 30 million will be lost as it should be so that it will be as has been in the past few years and we will not be pinching that little of what is granted. The problem is that I find a bit of harassment from an academic authority's hand against the University of Akureyri, which cannot be improved and cannot receive sufficient financial support, e.g. from the telecommunication I made as a subject of earlier, but the minister has not yet answered why money was not available on it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u97	A respectable president. Thank you. Councilmen for this discussion here. First, I'd like to answer the question, Have I affected the trial? Of course, the matter was on the custody of the budget board and then settled into the Assembly Hall for payment. On the other hand, I do not agree that large policy-making decisions in education are taken into a financial committee without discussing the matter at any other time with the introduction of the Council's Committee on Education. I think that's the rule. Of course, it cannot be said that this is a large amount of money or some kind of transformation or major change in school activities, but it is certainly true that what has been said here is true; the laws and rules of the university need to be considered. That discussion was conducted here. The conclusion was that the budget was adopted in this way, and that is what we were working on. About what question? A senator who is very important if he is not considered sufficient for students to show off, and then the council has the opportunity, as it were. A senator pointed to, dealing with it through financial aid. The law, though, is what we must work with. I also point to what I said in my first response, the Minister is commissioned to negotiate and other such things to the school on the basis of the budget for the three to five years at the same time. I remind you. This question has been asked again about the actions involved. A senator mentioned in his first question, and I just want to reiterate that it was a procedure that received special funds that was shown on the 2nd matter. Funds that were generally viewed as beyond what was being paid for at school. [[The president calls.]] It does not necessarily mean that there is again money for such action. [[The president calls.]] But it was necessary to take them because there were so many people in the system that they didn't pay and there was a serious damage. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u98	A respectable president. I was in my ears at the moment. paritaprevir Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir, head of the Independence Party, would have apologized for the words she had fallen here in the heat of the game earlier today. I just want to thank you for that and say from this speaker that this apology is being accepted.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u99	V.E.G. President. The UN Convention on the rights of disabled people, made available in 2007 by Iceland, and the Icelandic government is now working to validate, states that Member States guarantee that disabled people are being enabled to enter general university education. It is now that the school schools of disabled people are generally shorter than the school schools of the criminals. Yet, education is one of the factors that make people with dyskinesia feel that what is most important is to improve life's prospects. The lack of education has a negative effect on the employment of disabled persons, however, studies show that as the education of disabled persons is more likely to be active in a job market. Research also suggests that motorized persons feel that it is necessary to obtain the highest test order possible to obtain a full currency at the labour market. These are of utmost importance, for we would like, of course, that as many as possible to be active in a job market, to earn a living, and to contribute to the community through taxes. In this country, however, it appears that there is a better policy in education of motor people in view of the availability of the University of Iceland. Physical access to educational institutions, i.e. To simply get into and through school buildings, there is one part in access to education and may be the subject of another inquiry to the highest level. Ministers, but there is something else to be able to afford to study. People who have disability and/or disability are more likely to live in poverty, and this can be a major barrier to accessing disabled people and disability. That's why I want to direct the following questions to the highest level. Education and Culture Minister: 1st What is the discount given to microchip by reimbursement in the state's scholarship schools? Is microbeans being given the same discount in all of them? 2. What's the Minister's policy on taking a discount to microchip on credits in these schools? I think this is an important part of the discussion about how we can make disabled people and disability more active in our society.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u100	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. It is so that the Ministry of Education and Culture, following the inquiry, sent a message to all of the seven universities asking them to determine whether the university gave a discount on credits or schools for disemployment. In the three private high schools, i.e. The University of Reykjavík, the Arts University of Iceland and the University of Bifrost, is the general rule of not paying off school fees, which is for all students. For the official university, i.e. The University of Iceland, the University of Akureyri, the National Farming University of Iceland, and the University of Hólar, are the first to give a certain price for disability, but in responses from the National Institute of Agriculture of Iceland and the University of Hólar, it was reported that it would not have been customary or that it had not been tested. The bank's registration fee at the University of Iceland, which lives in disability or disability, with disability or with disability or with responsoration money from the government's insurance agency is 55 fars. K. instead of 75 you. K. which is otherwise given at a fixed dollar number, regardless of whether students are enrolled in an entire or half university. The University of Akureyri provides microchip 50% of the registration fees for confirmation of 75% microenergy assessment. For the second team of queries at any time. I'd like to state that there is no formality policy in the Ministry on the registrar of public university registrars to lay down deposit fees. But then I would like to mention that there is a university and scientific policy in the Ministry that includes access to university education. I especially want to use this opportunity to thank the candidate for the inquiry, since that is exactly why we have to make a special examination of that subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u101	A respectable president. Thank you for the voter for this very good inquiry. I must admit that I had thought in my innocence that there was a discount for disability in the schools of the country. I found the answers very interesting. Minister called in. The first thing you think about is whether it should not be equal in this regard. Some schools give discounts, and I guess they don't pay extra for it. At least, we know that the University of Akureyri is not getting paid extra for anything or anything, so there are two schools setting out with a very good example. I encourage the Minister to consider this, and it seems to me that his will stands for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u102	Mr. President. I'd like to thank you too for your leader. paritaprevir The Árnadóttir Þóra Aarnadótir, for the exercise of such a great need, and for the obvious evidence that there has been a reason. There has been a reason for the Ministry to gather information on the nature of these issues at the university. Of course, it's interesting that two of the public colleges, the University of Iceland and the University of Akureyri, have some proposed rules about a certain discount, but the other public colleges do not and the private colleges do not. I'm not sure that this is to be the case permanently, so randomly it is based on the individual schools' decision to do so; rather, there is good reason for setting up some consistent rules and allowing one thing to go over all, so people don't need for these reasons, for example, to choose study or to try to study in other places but perhaps their minds and their circumstances would best depend on only because they don't have the ideals to do this in this respect in the high schools of the country. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u103	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers as well as the answers. Parliamentaries who have taken part in these discussions quietly. I agree with what was presented in the case of the day. Councilmen say this is a matter of equality and because of it, as shown in the highest court. Ministers, I think it is a great reason to set some kind of uniform rules because it is not necessarily that everyone poor ones want to have the same degree of study, but that they have to be a wide range of academic opportunities and that they can get some kind of uniform discount, at least while the financial situation and the quality of public security are as low as you can see, and this group is more likely to live with poverty than other groups. I searched the Internet when I was preparing for this inquiry just to see just how many poor people have completed college. Unfortunately, I did not find any new numbers, but only numbers from 2008 and 2009. It showed that only 7% of those who are already poor have graduated from college. It's naturally enormously low numbers. I don't have another inquiry to the highest level. A minister in this second introduction to my speech chair, however, would like to encourage him to work on more formal policy so that we can put these matters into the stream of micropair, as well as the people of the country, to the benefit of all. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u104	A respectable president. Thank you. Parliaments for the debate and why. The manager especially for the query. I agree with members of Congress that there is, of course, something to consider, at least in the official university, whether some kind of rule should be about how these matters should be handled. I agree with that. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon may not be appropriate only for the way the leaders of the individual institutions view these matters. I think we all agree that education is a natural opportunity for all to seek a better life, and we must, of course, want things to come to the point where those who have to deal with the challenges of disability, we want to lighten their efforts so that they can take advantage of the resources available in the education system. In fact, I think that in the end it will lead to a savings to the public as education grows and thus potential individuals to support themselves and at the same time create a better life. As a result, the cost that falls may be reduced if you are not able to enter the workforce. Therefore, keep all of this in mind and put together both costs and as well as the savings that happen when people get back to the job market. Thank you so much. A senator and again mention that we are discussing these matters within the Ministry. It was fine to receive this admonition, so we just went to the job of sending letters to the university to see how these matters were handled. The result was the one I published here in my reply.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u105	Mr. President. It's become a bit since I proposed this inquiry and, fortunately, something has happened in these cases. The request is this: A wise secretary ensures that in each of the country's prisons the same service that is rendered in the South on the basis of study and education and advisers? There is a large difference in the way prisoners receive assistance to study, as well as learning and professional advice. However, the second factor has only been improved, i.e. The academic and professional adviser, in which Southland's High School, which has been in charge of the elements of prisons, is the most recent thing I think, a contract with the School of Education at Akureyri for 15% work ratio, so there comes the school counselor for two hours once a week. The same is true of Cwebry, where the student counselor arrives for about two hours each week. Of course, it is not in the role of a Bible counselor to help with study, i.e. to teach. At Little Lava, the prisoners are being taught all day long with teachers from each trade and put in place. Prisoners at Sugni receive regular visits from teachers as well as from prisoners in Kopavogi. There's no such thing available in Akureyri, i.e. No local study, telecommunications only. The same can be said of Cuíbreg, and aside from it, there's no local education available but only telecommunications, there's no place for students to be. They have to study each one in their own room, and there's also no interview room to collect me from a student and professional counselor. It is also so that at Sweden, prisoners do not have full access to Internet networks and therefore cannot do all the tasks assigned to them, although they have only the ability to run distances, as I said earlier. It is evident, therefore, that there is discrimination between study and study data by gender and even between parts of the country. I'd like to know if it's the highest. A minister sees it as a way of changing things and making things right. In Akureyri, a prison agency has refused to meet the demands of a prison officer who is a teacher and has applied to assist inmates in teaching but has requested a raise. I'd like to ask the minister if he saw in his mind that he and the Minister of the Interior could, for example. make an agreement to solve the problem. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u106	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the inquiry. As for the education and professional advisor's services, it is to say that according to the Ministry's contract at the Southland High School, the school keeps out 100% of the student and professional adviser's position to serve as a prisoner in all U.S. prisons. This is to be kept in mind that regardless of which prison they are, student and professional advice with prisoners is fairly consistent. All decommissionors can attend a school in Iceland. A contract with the South University of San Francisco teaches in prisons in the South and deals with the School of High School in Kópavogur shows that the school is interested in school teaching in Kópavogi. In the Cologne and in Akureyri, telecommunications have been under way. South Africa's Prisons offer locally the most multiplicity in education, and they can take longer studies, and the largest part of the prisoners will end up in their punishments there, with little to say, those who receive the longest judgments. If a shorter judgment sentence is granted, it would wish to be saved in the South because of a learning position in which it is tried. It's the situation now, but the question is: What will be done for the future? Of course, that is what counts. In recent years we have been working on policies for the education of prisoners, from 2007. The Ministry of Education and Culture is prepared to participate in a review of policy, in view of the fact that prisons are being built on Hólmstur, shut down at the same time in operating prisons. But it should be noted that this and that work must always be carried out under the custody of the State Department of State. It is the Ministry that is responsible for these institutions and the Ministry of Education cannot take part in what is done there without full agreement with the Ministry of Internal Affairs and its sources. At my office, we've already contacted the State Department on this matter and started a conversation about the situation that is now being raised by the arrival of a prison in Hólmski. A respectable president. I had this morning a meeting with Margrét Frímannsdóttir, who is the head of the prison at Little Houn, along with others who come there to discuss this very matter. Of course, at that meeting, which is important in this discussion, the importance of being able to study. Margrét Frímannsdóttir studied a few cases of prisoners who, since they could have studied, made a great change in their lives, and whose subjects have a much better chance of reentering the court at the end of reformation. In fact, the meeting concluded that because of the emphasis on the study of the inmates, the return rate, which was very high in Iceland, and quite out of rhythm with what happened in other countries, is getting better. Those who attended my meeting were in no doubt at all. due to increased educational oer. In contrast, there are conflicting issues of opinion, e.g. Regarding the facilities for study in Hólms' honor and then the possibility of a study, which I'm concerned about and that I need to think about, especially, because many prisoners can suit that way well. In fact, a wide range of studies, whether to be a student or a book study, are the main points for those to whom they want to study. Of course, the process is a little more complex, and it is harder to take care of in telecommunications. A respectable president. The key point is that there is a good harmony between all of us as to the importance of this matter. But I second again, the custody must always be the State Department. This is an operation within the institutions responsible for which the Ministry is responsible, and we must assemble those involved, i.e. Governments, prison authorities, and those who have become familiar with the education of prisoners and then the personnel from my department and renewing the policies and contracts made in 2007 in view of the changes that are going to take place. For the prison at Hólmsuk.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u107	A respectable president. Thank you for the good inquiry. I think it's very important that prisoners in every prison have the same access to student advice and study. That's where I'm thinking about that prison in Akureyri, which I know best. The last time I knew it, I think, eight of the 11 prisoners were in some school. There's no way to study for work or anything like that, it's a long-term education. We remember that for the financial work, a student's position at the Southland High School was cut off, I was afraid to say. There are small coins in comparison with what we will save for the future if we think of prison as a correction, not a punishment. I hear the highest. A minister feels the same way, or I felt it, so I encouraged him to do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u108	V.E.G. President. One of the main purposes and justification of prison punishment is a reminder of what has been wronged. Increasing education is the best way to reform. All studies show that a large proportion of those sentenced to prison punishment have little education. A great many of them have left school without finishing high school and may not even be able to read for their benefit. This lack of education has led many to become out - of - control in society, to feel disappointed, to lack self - confidence, and to the misuse of alcohol and other drugs, and to crime. The prisoner's own quality of life and the ability to get his feet succeed not only increases as he is enabled, and he is given to educate himself, but also to all his associates. Anxiety about the prisoner and his future damages the quality of the lives of all these people. So a good study and a powerful student and professional advice for prisoners is a very big interest, not just for the prisoners themselves, but for the whole community. We're not supposed to save anything on that subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u109	A respectable president. I thank you for your short discussion. I'm afraid I won't come to both points at this brief time, but there's one thing I'm worried about and another thing I want to wonder about. On the one hand, the prison on Hólmski is designed as a large prison of security, and I have not been aware that there is much to be expected for education, whether more practical or more literature. That's what I'm worried about, and I hope I can have the highest. The Minister of the Interior to relieve my concern. The second point for financing, but during the last council, there was a conflict between the education institution, specifically a FFS, and the head of Little-Reals on how to use funds. It was in accordance with the opinion of the directors of FSa and Little care that the funding would actually be at home at the State Department of the Homes so that the funds for the training of prisoners could be set aside on the basis of their needs for this rather than the total education. I'd like to have the highest perspective. Minister of that matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u110	Mr. President. I thank the discussion and ministers for the answers he gave, but they may not add much to what I had already considered. I have to agree with what we just learned here that it's the study that prisoners are calling for. That may be what their mind is more than a high school course or a university education, i.e. It appears that most people are interested in it. And, of course, there is something we need to correct. It is a group that has become dependent on society for some reason, and of course not everyone goes to school or is capable of studying, but it is very important, as presented here, to the future. Making active participants by allowing for education is saving society. I said earlier that there is a difference between what opportunity men and women have to study. It's much better at Little Lava. There, teachers come to work and teach prisoners. Is that not something you can negotiate with the Academy of Education in Akureyri? Now there are two Ministry Departments, as noted by the Minister of Education, who conducted this seminary, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Education, but certainly the education of the Ministry of Education. I think it should be as well as the student and professional advice, I think it would be better to keep the education section at the Ministry of Education, where he belongs, and to see that the Ministry can work on this together. I'm worried that those people who are in prison for some reason don't have the same level of education, as it is possible to have. I mentioned earlier that the Communist prisoners have no access to the Internet but very limited and just have access to telecommunications. V.E.G. A minister must agree with me that this is not a time to study. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u111	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator once again for the inquiry and another why. Councilmen for the injury. I think we all agree that this is a very important group of subjects. To enable prisoners to educate themselves is a tool that has proved to be highly practical, apart from the fact that giving humanitarianism gives people the opportunity to change the course of life and to which education is extremely successful. That's why I don't think we're gonna have to argue about it, but then we're gonna have to come up with the update on this. Then I would like to reiterate that this must always be the case with the government's custody. It must take part and take a position on how this is done, because it is a resource within the institutions responsible for the Ministry or Minister. For my part, I declare myself ready to come to that job and would like to take pride in it, but when it comes to the question of financial contributions for this, i.e. where to bring them in the books of the kingdom, I count it right to bring them, that they may set forward for these organizations, to come in that way. In other words, I think they need to be added. I'm not ready to say: This is to be taken from the limited resources that are already in the educational system. There must be additional financial support, because this is a special means for these institutions and for the individuals in their institutions. On the other hand, I believe that it should, I think the money is paying itself a lot of money. In fact, the public talk is always that the other investments of the State are making so much back, but often when you are more likely to consider it, it is now subject to doubt. But I believe in this matter it is absolutely clear that the cost of the education available to prisoners and that they use it is far less than the social benefits to individuals and to society all that comes from it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u112	V.E.G. President. At the National Council, we have discussed the provisions of young people. They can make themselves available for various assignments or families abroad, and they stay with them. In our neighboring countries, cases involving serious violations of sources that have come to other countries through enforcing have developed. These include the abuse of power that the manager believes he has over the candidates, the misuse of workers, and the slavery, mental and sexual abuse, even prostitution. This is mainly true when young women come from less developed and/or poorer countries into the northern countries. This is most likely to be found in more wealthy families and those who are important within the community and who use it to cover up their actions and/or get away with them. Those in this situation often do not have the courage to seek help because of the threat and the extent to which they have been broken. There are different ways of managing supplies; assistance, monitoring, and counseling to those who go to other countries. Since the North countries are our neighboring and collaborative countries in many areas, and since I am a representative of the National welfare committee, I would like to bring this up, so I'd like to ask. Minister of the state of our affairs: How do we keep surveillance on eco-efficiency, both for those outside, and for those who come here? Then I'm wondering if a professional would hold a young person who, in many cases, goes on one by one for the first time and if there's anything that can be helped. I have seen recommendations for those in foreign lands to try to resolve differences or problems by presenting them, including with family members who stay with them, and that they need to report any differences or problems before stay or work is completed. What is the right of these individuals, and how can you put the load found in this recommendation of a person who can be very broken? How should we deal with the person who may be wronged, and how can one be expected to handle the problem properly and/or to have any disagreements that may arise? Then I also ask: Does Ministers believe that the system we have and the current surveillance system prevents slavery, abuse and the abuse of an area? This means misuse of work time, mental and/or sexual abuse, even misuse of a person's position far from home, and not well within the laws and regulations of the land.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u113	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The foreman for this question and the issues it brings to the attention of this question period and the provisions, au pair as we have often called it here. I'd like to say in general that a lot of what you've got. A senator mentioned, the dangers that can be faced by these specific permits, if we say so in this way, we need to examine them. Clearly, we need to do so. To answer the questions, it is not expected that special surveillance will be carried out by the U.S. In some cases, however, the U.S.A. has referred to the police in case of suspected abuse of either au pair's license or abuse of the individual person himself. The same applies to non-elderly foreigners who are not under the territory of the Foreign Institute, i.e. EEA/EFTA foreigners, but no specific monitoring is expected. In general, it was a rather friendly time when young girls and young boys who want to get to know other countries have gone abroad rather than with further threats in the world, of course, we need to be careful not to abuse this authority to other things than what is intended. A foreign agency does not have any information about those outside the facility nor does it provide special monitoring for them. Whether a minister believes that the system and current surveillance will prevent slavery, abuse and the use of the local mantel is asked. It is their assessment that the present system will not be enough to prevent this. This is the key I mention here, that the system is in a way that we can improve it. However, I would like to emphasize that now there is work to do in the revision of the alien law as we know it. This is a cross - lattice discussion. A committee under the front line. paritaprevir Óttar Proppér is an eco-efficiency permit, au pair, to be considered, including On the basis of these views. Here we return to the work of this committee. There are a huge number of complex subjects that she is dealing with, and there is one that the committee especially views. Of course, there is no particular check on this, and it's already under control. President, that the Ministry of Health has criticized this arrangement, believes we need to do better. I take it to myself in the office that I believe we need to look into it and will also monitor the work of the Committee on Foreign Affairs that this should be considered. Although I do not have here on a beat - up basis, there is evidence that some abuse has occurred. So we must, of course, fail. Then there is the right thing to do. A senator said that before, there is not enough resources for those who may then have been in trouble. That's one of the things we need to look to, too, but it's not exactly about the ministry I'm responsible for. We're here with the permit, but when people get into something, they have to be examined specifically, and there's something that might also be under the Ministry of Health. We are aware of this, and this is one of the things we have been considering, as I say, again because of foreign affairs. The purpose is to improve this environment and make it safer for those who use these provisions more effectively in all ways.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u114	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir for recording this case here. I think it's really important that we talk about this, and thank you very much. Ministers for making a clear answer here, both that there is need to be a lack of surveillance and that rules and extramarital measures need to be sharpened, including trying to access it through the foreign - language committee. There have been communities around these provisions where people have just thought that they could come and be in a new country, get to know the culture and language of the countries, work with children, and have had a defined time, but unfortunately, they have observed that this form of abuse has taken place. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that this is a typical case taken up in the Northern Council. Hv. A senator has pointed out that it is the very representative of the Northern Council welfare committee, including a group of socialists. I think we should try to follow up together at the council to agree and research from the Northern Council will be provided in Icelandic legislation and regulations. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u115	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for the answers she brought here and also Guðbjartur for correctly pointing out that the Council of the North has been and is working on a better system for au pair. I think it's very serious that there's no special surveillance of the au pair here. The stories we started working on tell us that there are not enough Witnesses in and beyond the young people who are being sent from abroad. In developing lands, people often set up a desk, promise that even young women can find future husbands in a better country, the welfare country of the North Sea, and accept a commission, which would pay a plane ticket for them and then transfer them to the northern countries. Happily, many have a good time living in an area where they live and enjoy happy memories of living in an area where they live. That's good, but I think it's very serious as the highest. The minister entered, that the assessment is that the current system is not good enough. Then I stress that those who work to reevaluate alien law take it into their jobs, and at the same time give me criticism of the current arrangement. As I said earlier, we are here talking about young people who may be going out alone for the first time, untemptified individuals who then suffer a shock, and who do not know where to seek help. If we are to maintain such a system and call it a policy that young people can travel like this, we must also have a good system that keeps these people in mind during their stay.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u116	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this insistence and share with her that I think there is a different reality from that which was first introduced. We need to respond to him. I take it to myself, knowing that the non - Israelite committees will do the same, and I'm sure they will. I don't watch her work from day to day, but I know they're looking at these things, too. Then I'll agree with it. paritaprevir The Guðbjartur son of Hannesson, who may be the root of his reason, said: "I am God. One senator asks that it is of great benefit when we enjoy the work being done at the scene of the Arctic Council for the work we are doing here. There's nothing but good to say, and we thank you for that. I'm just gonna take me out of this chair the pressure I've got at the council members, and we're gonna work on this case to make it all safer than it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u117	V.E.G. President. Here is a request made last February that may have changed a lot since it was submitted. Last year, new legislation was adopted on the co-ordination of the government and the administrations in the province where the county office was united and reduced from 24 to nine. As a result, the office was to be made more powerful and better equipped to accept new assignments, although the Service Committee would remain unchanged, i.e. 29th In payment of the bill and the review of the General and Education Committee, there was concern over the impact of the change in communities that lost their county office. However, a clear statement was made that in the post office of the county, a legal agent and unchanged human administration would continue to ensure that the services were not to be performed. A general and educational committee added provisional regulations III to the law that was about to the highest. In cooperation with the Prime Minister, the Minister of Ministers should have a management plan developed for the Council of the Management Board to set aside the administrative projects for recruitment and the subsets of which it is considered preferable to be transported to the state of the county. This strategy was then scheduled for January 1, 2015, but it did not, and that is why the inquiry was asked. In many cases, there have been projects in the county, but the idea was that these were organized at the Board of Directors. Since this inquiry has been submitted, there has been a why. The General and Education Committee has received a report from the Ministry on the transfer of projects to the county. Unfortunately, it has to say exactly as it is, there is a fairly thin thirteenth, and there are some cases that have been obtained. Sources are being transferred mainly within the federal Ministry, from police to county reform or something, a small project, and often only between members of the administration board in the capital area. So I am concerned that this law, which was an important prerequisite for these changes or one of the things that were discussed that were actually in the form of what was at its height. The government has had its case record, i.e. to make sure that the land is built up, that its goals do not succeed. So I want to ask the highest. A minister of the exact procedure in this regard, and perhaps he will allow me to change the question a little and ask if it has not been disappointing at the highest level. Minister to how other agencies have handled these matters and how few of their tasks have been appointed into thisulia. And whether we must do much better if we are going to pass this provisional law on the matter of being assigned to the county.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u118	V.E.G. President. I'm very kind to answer any questions I have. A senator brought you on a project for the county. It is true that since the request was first published, the operation plan on transporting projects to the county has been established and has made it available on the local Ministry website. Nevertheless, I want to inform the House of Congress that when I came to the matter and saw this operation and the projects mentioned there and then how things had passed by by other councils, I'm going to say it just as it is that I wasn't quite satisfied with how many projects came from the other councilors. I haven't been on my mind in the government that I think we need to do much better. My opinion is that the county office is the nature, this is the European Commission, that we should use it far more than we have done. I can also describe that view, and I would not put it in the mouth of others, but I would often prefer to move a project to the county rather than set up special units in the country, that is my personal opinion. In terms of what is best anticipated, I must say, to the county office that it will be most desirable to move to, just as it is, from the Ministry of Internal Affairs. We have expended as much effort as possible in the State Department. Some may seem less than others, but much effort has been made in the Ministry of Internal Affairs to perform tasks. We want to set a good example there and encourage other counselors to see that this is the course of wisdom. The Action Programme lists 19 projects currently involved in moving to the county. The assignments will be carried out are all in the custody of the State Department. We've assigned county officials to care for a number of projects previously performed in the Ministry, e.g. Registration of the religious and principles of society, the publication of all sorts of licences for national, state-of-authority, court-martial, and permission companies linked to public collections. The Ministry has expectations that we can carry on more work to the county. We've already added a huge task that has to do with the pursuit, that's what we're going to move to the county's office in a Western country. We feel that there will be a great improvement for that office and a reasonable approach. We want to do more work this year. There we are talking about the rights to train, license to drive, all kinds of vacations where he needs to rule, printery, and I can continue to count the others, and this permission that we see to it that we can move. There is then a proposal for a massive project that will be carried out in the same form as the electronic code. It is a great act of justice and importance, since regulations are published in the same manner as laws in the electronic code, which is updated twice a year. These changes are transferred into the law, so the law does not need to be readable and the changes made. This is a project that we are still working on, requiring that we agree with other agencies. We will do so, and we will put a great deal of emphasis on the reality of that project. I'll put pressure on it to other schemes that it will be. Although I've declared it here, and I've wondered a little bit about the fact that the State Department is involved, I've felt, a little lonely for a while, but I still believe that the drop will break the stone, that it will be useful for you to carry a mission. I guess so too, chief. President, that the members of the council in this room join us in trying to carry out tasks that would be wise to move to the county office. That's what this case is now, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u119	A respectable president. I want to thank you. The foreman for this case. I talked a lot about the union of the county and police services and all that when that bill was discussed, including those projects that were said to be admissible for transport and have been torn up here. When the report, on what assignment had not been met, I was amazed by many things, i.e. As regards the proposals of mission transport; I'm writing about the printing of diplomas and legislation, stress and collection of insurance bills, or the management of nationalities once in the hands of the County Council of the United States. There are so many things I don't understand, just by no means, that I didn't get the sound in the councils. I'll agree that we're going to keep hammering on this and, like, the highest. The minister then said the drop of the stone is hollow. At times, only a political decision is needed within the council so that things can be realized and that the big words that were already said to be accepted. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u120	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers and the title of the support of her work in trying to comply with this provision of the law. There are a number of successful projects that have been given to a rural group in the country, including the collection of fines on the Bayou Corporation. It has been mentioned whether a collection should be not for the loan fund at that institution. It's from private sources, the state buys a collection service, and would like very much the work that is already there. We also have other work that might be very good for us there. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister as to whether there is no reason to look at cooperation, and that has only been mentioned, rural society and the State regarding these services. We're not just talking about the county office, we're talking about former county offices, i.e. A service center in the province, which could carry out tasks, even services for state and rural communities might be in one place. I think it would be worth a closer look, making sure that we get improved service out in the country, which is extremely important. That is important when such important and large issues, as all of them were - a transnational harmony was achieved about this tremendous change, one of which was made promise of certain things in connection with it. Therefore, it is very important that we follow this approval of the Generals. I'm the highest. A minister to the honor of it and to expect us to be assigned to the General and Education Committee, and hopefully here to the council, the report and a new plan of action to show better results than in this first experiment.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u121	A respectable president. I thank you again for the discussion on this important subject. I must be especially careful that the county office, they can play a role in the important work assigned to them. It is clear to me that these changes were made to strengthen the office set up, and it is vital that this be done. I need to be careful that, on account of projects and as with financial contributions to these county offices - this was a term given by law-enforced representatives, etc., all of this is part of having this important article in the districts strong and powerful for carrying out their assignments. I find it hard to say more about this particular project than I will continue to speak to the government that the projects are being brought to the county. I can't speak on behalf of other Ministers, but I think that men must see, and that's one of the rules of the government, that this is to be developed, so we just need to keep on doing it. I thank you for the support I feel that I will receive from members of Congress to make sure that we are better able to deliver our assignments.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u122	V.E.G. President. It's just that I've always been obsessed with walking. The Parliament has made many conclusions on transport, social planning, and other issues, and it does not need to be doubted that many of the transport projects that have been undertaken during the past few years have been greatly strengthened by land infrastructure. That's why I ask questions from three teams to the highest. Minister: 1st What is the financial position of the Roadmaker to provide new roads in 2015? 2. What new arrangements will be offered this year? 3. In 2016, what is the appearance of new projects and transport funds? A respectable president. The reason I'm asking the highest question. The minister of these questions and ask for answers is to hear what is going on in these matters but also, of course, the changes made at 2 Thessalonians 3: 1. budgets in December last year, including were taken with 850 million. K. ... ofthePresident of the Road Building to the maintenance budget of the Road Make-up. Of course, it is not unnecessary to do so, especially now after winter, where weather has been dwindling, heavy snowing in between, excessive salting, and increasing traffic that has been very difficult to deal with, along with the lack of maintenance of the roads during the difficult years. According to what I think I know about the calculations of Vega, it seems to me that if I can use that word for a year, there are only 270 million. K. at the beginning of this year for new roads. It's like I've probably told Iceland record in not doing anything. A respectable president. I'm aware that we've put a little more money into a road that we're going to ramble in all the ballots, but as I say, the situation seems to be so serious that there'll be almost nothing about being. I'm asking the highest, too. Minister: Has the road itself been forbidden to offer new tasks? I ask because the group of us sees that there are virtually none of the new exports on transport. There will be a number of transport projects to be carried out, such as the Strandway project, the Glayak of the Mountains, Fallifos Road, the Berufjord, The Smoke Road in Bishops, etc. This is a total of six projects designed to put 2 billion in, but it seems to me, a respectable president, in view of my calculations, if they are correct, that due to the small contribution now there is no more than 10% of the money in the road generation at the beginning of this year. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This is why, more honored President, for the three questions raised. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u123	V.E.G. President. We're out of business. paritaprevir Kristján Möller is just as well aware of the state of transportation in the country, and no wonder for the time of trouble we've gone through that transport system. However, before I answer these questions further, I would like to say that what's really important to us here is to ensure extra money to the road. Of course, it was a great disappointment to the Department of Transport that less money was paid by the budget than expected in a road, but it is the reality of what we live in the Ministry of Internal Affairs that we now face when we smile against the sun during the spring season. Hv. A senator mentioned some tasks that, according to his calculations or information and knowledge of transportation, are likely to be undiminished. If I heard correctly, I'm absolutely right. A senator of a lot of the works mentioned here, unfortunately, we do not have the funds to do this. I don't stand for fun and declare it, so it's what it is, and we have to face it. In order to answer the questions mentioned above, the budget of 8.6 billion is intended for implementation or for the stocking costs of road construction at the Vega project in 2015. These produce about 5 billion already engaged in projects. The largest projects already being carried out are the Hellishóttir, Aluminium Road, Westfjordur Road, Eyi ◯Theá, part of it, as far as it was started, not just what it was doing. A senator specifically mentioned earlier and, of course, the grand work we know, the tunnel, or the Arctic tunnel, where we see better developments in progress, and we must thank for these conditions, at least. The drill goes well, and maybe it looks like the tunnel will be ready sooner or later, we'll see. Another capital, over 3.5 billion, will be new to the following works that I plan to list: Little on road, new chapters around the country or less than 20 miles, I'm assuming 930 billion. K. into it. Shire roads, roads, roads, trawlers, roads, ignobles, ignobles, fences, etc. And the bridge, it's about half a billion. A tunnel and roads at Back, 850 million. K. However, this is not directly linked to routine transport, as we know, because of the industrial sector in Bakka, but still comes from transport. Projects in southwestern are 650 million. K. It is primarily an improved traffic flow, public transportation, specialists, and more, a renewal of light, safety measures in various forms, cycle and footpaths, walking speeds, and subpasses. In force, there is an agreement between the Ministry of State and the local community in the capital area that no new projects should be carried out in this area. The deal goes on until next year, so it's also the reality I'm facing, but I think it's very important that the capital area be under way. Eaglenes Road is inside. It wasn't obvious that it was, I want to make it clear that, frankly, there was a considerable effort to get him in, but I think it's very positive that it's done, so you talk about the factors that are positive in the case. Then, there are 240 million people in preparation for the transport program. K. and second, around the end of the day, 159 million. K. Most of the work I mentioned in the latter part of the list is going to be this year, they'll be offered and written in 2015, which is like what happened. A senator mentioned, a number of other tasks that are ready to be sent out, but we cannot take them any further without money. With regard to the way I looked in 2016 and on, I have been preaching almost ready for transportation. Transport advice has returned to its proposals. I hope to present the matter before the council, unfortunately, after the deadline has passed but just in time. It shows what will happen to the sheep. I'm not going to promise any fireworks, but there's a lot more tables for dinner, but we have to do so much, much better because we have to take on huge new projects, and then the maintenance projects are so big and they're growing. [[The president calls.]] Of course, King Vetur has not really helped us in this matter, but we must react. [[The president calls.]] My name is for the whole world of Congress to come with me to convince everyone here that this is a very important project. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u124	V.E.G. President. I'm just gonna let myself come into this discussion. I agree with that with the highest. As foretold, it is important to have security, maintenance, and public transportation. But I don't think there was ever a situation as miserable as we've seen this year in spite of the national interest. It's about to take a long time since we had a promise that a transport program was being developed. You have waited to discuss outstanding matters until that plan is established. But I can't cool myself with asking the highest. Minister on what the Chess Forest case is doing, i.e. 60 West Road. We've had a meeting with the ex-fiancée. The minister of the local congregation, where consultation was being proclaimed, tried to follow through after a man's close attention to the outcome of his affairs. I trust that men will deliver the statements given by a former minister, and I know that the current supreme. A minister in itself has agreed, i.e. That a new priority project should be on the West, despite everything. [[The president calls.]] It refers to primary development, whether by a new tunnel or by the Forest, the Forest of Tigers should be there first.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u125	A respectable president. I also wanted to enter this discussion, beginning with the fact that it's with the saddest things you've ever seen. During the days, or just before the Passover, the representatives of the Roadmaker came to a meeting of the panels. They were rather downtrodden, we felt that we could do little or almost nothing about new projects. I talked it over with the budget, both in the past and in the past, and I did not feel that there was going to be money left in the maintenance that was taken in the snowstorm. True, the snow mist was passing, but it was maintained and found to be inexplicable, as has been introduced here. So, at the highest. At the very least, a minister has at least us senators who have brought up here in an effort to squeeze out more money for the plan, and I think we eagerly await the arrival of a transport strategy to see if any projects that belonged to e.g. To bid out to spring, and, according to the Way of Kappus, and many more, is in there. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u126	V.E.G. President. I'd like to thank the captain for this discussion, she's really needed. I understand that perfectly, and I don't envy the highest. A secretary of transportation has to deal with these matters because of lack of money and so on. It doesn't matter where you go, there's no need for money everywhere to take a new job on road construction. What I wanted to bring up in this discussion is the situation that is developing on the roads of the country today, that is most clearly said to be serious, and especially in view of the increasing number of tourists day by day. I live in the South. Today, just last week, we received a letter from the District of the South at Gari, and from the Union of the Southnes, where the extraordinary stress has gone down, such as. In Grindavik. The other day, I was driving the Cologne River at a Saturday morning. I met 11 buses on the way to the Blue lagoon. The road there is fairest in bad conditions, and it looks at such problems. But I hope that we can get money on the maintenance project first, and maybe we can wait on new projects.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u127	Madam President. I'd like to start informing about my personal interests in this matter. I work in the asphalt, I've done it in 1 16, 17 summers, so people just take into account that I have something more to do in this category. But I'd like to ask a minister if she can inform us about our priorities in this regard. You heard about a year ago that the road system was in place where there was a certain danger, a set of safety reasons there were maintained. What is the situation now, the priority must be security, or what? And which is more important? What, then, is put first now, maintained, or recently maintained?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u128	V.E.G. President. For one thing, I'd like to thank the highest. Minister for the answers and members of the council who participated in the discussion of my inquiry. I don't know exactly where to begin. V.E.G. A minister always apologizes by saying that we just don't have any more money to play, and that's real. This is the reality, a respected president, who is the administrative body, including the private members of the board, who are content and contented with, i.e. That almost no funding will be new this year, for it is maintained so much, as it really is. In addition, I would like to mention, sir, a respectable president, even though I am completely distracted by the Minister of the Interior to fight for more money, this government is second or third time taking 870 million this year from the markets of the Roadmaker's revenues into the state's budget. This has never been done except in the time of the present government. These are the first and only times it's done. During the difficult years of the nation's 2008, 2009, and 2010, a total of 62 billion were spent. in Iceland's stock costs. The years that follow are 18 billion, a total of some 80 billion during the most difficult years. The state of the nation's population has truly improved, yet Iceland's record is not doing anything. So I'm under inspiration. A minister she recommends to be a member of the Parliament, but I would like to give this particular consideration to the members of the Management Board when a transport plan is made available to put the above words into practice. Councilmen have said on days, in elections, and in meetings to increase the amount of transport money that is not being done relative to what is happening here. [[The president calls.]] I'm very nervous when a transport plan finally comes up, because I think it'll be a confirmation of how little it's going to be done, unfortunately. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u129	A respectable president. Like what? paritaprevir Möller knows very well, the funds we had during the first half of the difficult years of transportation that had been maintained while we thought we had considerably more material. Of course, it was very good for us to be able to make sure of that, but tough. A senator knows just how this case is growing. I don't think people need to get depressed right away, so let's just wait for the plan and discuss it when it comes out, but I still want to say what I feel -- I think senators who know my opinion know that I'm a rather functional person, so, of course, I'm going to fight a lot more money for transportation. That's what my partners know at the government table. I will. But I'm not going to promise my sleeve how it's going now at this particular point, but it's going to be done. I won't give anything in it. Of the questions that were specifically addressed to me, of course, security is everything on the roads of the country, that is absolutely fundamental. The road system is also an infrastructure for the nation's professional life, especially for tourism. There are two strands that we need to weave together. New projects are also a security issue. There is also a need for specific projects for security. On the other hand, the situation on the roads is in that way now after the last winter, and I don't talk about it in the southwest corner, looking for serious problems. As for the snowcup, we know that the biggest money actually goes to the capital area because the situation in winter has been such, so we see the need for a great deal of money there. For the Chef Forest, it's not a problem quite on my level at the moment. It's at Organization now. When we hear of what may soon be, I will, of course, inform the people.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u130	V.E.G. President. My fourth and final inquiry on this day is for the Minister of the Interior. About the Northground Airport, and then it says, with President's permission: 1st What's the Minister's policy on construction of the Northground Airport? 2. What is needed in order for the field to meet its requirements and become suitable for hospital flight throughout the year? 3. When is it estimated that construction could begin at the airport? A respectable president. This question is raised following a district week in the fall and a repeated inquiry at meetings from the people of Ness shop for the matter. The runway is an old malar plane, with high temperatures and freezing off the ground that makes the airport impossible. I don't need to remind you that the Fourth Hospital in the East is in a Ness trade and is serving a great purpose for the entire East, I don't talk about the metropolitan fishing grounds east of the country. I know, because it was in my time as a transport minister, that it was considered to cross a new strip across the North Sea, at which time it was due to cost 20 to 30 million. K. However, further research and further preparation revealed that soil needs to be replaced, including soil that can improve the water and the temperature needed to build it up, resulting in a cost of about 150 million. K. I'm totally counting on an index, but I'm saying that maybe it's not a very professional calculation for me. Note that the number of trips to hospital flights is shrinking to Ness shop, and only because the course is so often impossible. They have to land at Egress with the means to drive, etc., which is very unfortunate. I also want to know, sir, that it is quite a good opportunity, and I believe that the state of state should use such an opportunity, when it is carried out at the Northground tunnel. The noise that comes from the Northground side of the tunnel is a gray - scaled material for building the field, to lift it up out of this diaper, and to make good delivery and a good foundation for the crumbling of the field. Second, there are large and large contractors in the area with their tools, so I want to allow myself to claim that right now a government fund is getting the very best offer that could be made to this project, i.e. While construction takes place at the Northground tunnel. This is why, most respected president, I present these questions as soon as I give the highest credit. Minister to look into it. [[The president calls.]] In my second speech, I am better able to examine this in particular about linking this project and using the material that comes from the Norwegian tunnel.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u131	A respectable president. It has maintenance of airports far across the country, as with maintenance of roads, that there are things that we know are missing, an enormous need for maintenance at other airports, e.g. in the Northeast standard, which we hope to achieve. I'd like to mention Húsavík and weapons farm specifically, and we hope we have enough money to deal with it. The Northground Airport is not the priority, so I'm just saying it right away. I'd also like to state that I have not been drawn to the north ground airport in this context, so it's clear. Of course, whether this is sufficient or not, it is important for safety in the North air and for the hospital, where we are getting our transport on a much better way. A senator knows best of all. When there's a Norwegian tunnel happening, it's gonna make a big difference to the north. This does not change, however, because the Northground airport is a malartic airport, and it is certainly not sufficient if we view it with glasses compared to the other fields. The airport is used for hospital flights and private flights. There are no financial resources in a transport program from 2011◯2022 in the founding of airports outside the grid, as is this airport in 2015-2018, and 140 million. K. During the period of 2019,2022, which is, of course, a small sum when we consider the cost of maintaining airports. The same is true of a proposal for a four - year transport program for the 2013-2016 season, submitted last year or previous meeting and updated last year, but at neither time did it succeed here at the council. In recent years, the budget for flying has been lower than expected in a transport strategy and, as I said before, a great need for maintenance in the whole system. Transient growth in donations is now primarily being maintained. The goal is to maintain the field so that he can be taken care of by a hospital flight, and it is also very important that we be able to land at Reykjavík's airport, to name it now. A change in policy in this respect is not expected through the development of North Ground March. What is required for the field to meet its requirements and be used as a patient flight for the entire year? questions are asked. Then, to answer that the airport is a malar area, as shown here, and there are a lot of freezing movements because of the subcontinent we know in the North Land, and it can be very wet when frost goes out of the ground and there's a lot of coverts in it where it stands. The runway can be unusable, and it has truly been in such a state. To prevent this, you need to dress the entire course, and you need to go a little lower in order to do so. In 2008, human awareness of the improvements in the runway was subject to human thinking. It involves replacing a fine - rich glass fill between 20 and 50 centimetres for a clean, freeze - safe grass and placing on the surface of a load, and then double the clothing. I haven't had any information that a glass coming out of the tunnel would be useful there. I've heard more about the much more Vállahell tunnels coming from the airport at Akureyri, but I'm telling you, this hasn't been flunked at me. Finally, water has to be fixed by waterways and safety zones so that water flows from the field as much as it can. Work is being done during reevaluation of the 2008 primary cost programme of 104 million people. Based on the development of a structural science, that amount could now study some 145 million. There's nothing more to add on my side. There is nothing special in this regard at this point, but once again it depends on the priority and priorities of which airports are first and where the need is most. And as it stands, others are cut down again in line.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u132	A respectable president. I'm just going to come into this conversation, but I realize it like the highest. A minister answered that there is certainly a struggle for the bite and airports too, as we have talked a great deal about here. It is not unusual to think that the ones who are in high - quality use are at first. But for the sake of the disaster and for what they might be questioned, it is certainly being looked to to to the point that it is relevant to a costly part of this project and to correct the course. It may also be asked, " Is the expense of moving patients out of Egls' positions, or in other places, down to Norway to the hospital, and even back again, except for all the discomforts experienced by patients? ' There is a considerable cost in moving people to the hospital, even to the point of going back to the scene of a medical flight from Egress. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u133	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister and minister. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir for this discussion and answers of the minister. What I want to continue with is that it was very good that we took 500 million. K. nursing of Istavia for this year, which should be used for several airports according to what has been listed as maintenance and repair, whether on a flight guide, light, or on the surface of a wall. What I'm doing here is a Northground airport that didn't get much publicity and may have been left too long in the low, and it doesn't talk about what I'm doing right now. I'm talking about it, more dignified President, that the total cost of building the stadium is about 150 million. K. That is really all there is to it. I'm stressing that I'm talking about the course because of the Fourth Hospital in Ness shop and the operation there. It's very important. A respectable president. I want to move one idea to the highest. Minister. It is that the Minister for Ministers, the Minister of the State, even wants to talk to the locals, to the Far East, where all the city councils are very visible and inexplicable. We have often seen how both the town authorities and the strong and powerful companies in that area have come in and wanted to take part in solving the situation. I can name a machine to the hospital, and more and more that are completely donated by the locals. I encourage it, because, as I said before, there is a tremendous opportunity to do this right now by using the speed out of the tunnel. Of course, the contractor offers it like any other, but a contractor with a lot of equipment in the place may find great benefits in offering better. And let's say we get less than 20% of the offer, remember 30 million only saved because of it. [[The president calls.]] So I want to use this opportunity as soon as I thank the Minister for the answers to encourage her to check that local authorities are working on a solution to this case and if we cannot use the opportunity that is so urgent now to use because of the construction of the Norwegian tunnel. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u134	A respectable president. I am prepared to discuss the information about that community with the officials of the Far East, and I also agree that we should use the infrastructure that exists in the country, making sure that our investments are useful but not damaged. I emphasize the priorities that have already been expressed. A senator is very well aware of this. Of course, these may not be the biggest numbers, but they are all numbers, and they all come together, and when we have so much left, we must look to them. But, of course, I am ready to listen to good ideas, and I am prepared to discuss this matter with a remote community and many other transport issues in that large and vast rural society.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u135	Madam President. I'd like to set up a matter of police study and police work in Iceland. As noted, a better report was made to the Minister of the Interior Interior of September 15, 2014, where there was a fairly detailed suggestion that the future police officers were being taken. One was suggested to be made up of a school agency in the general educational system for teaching basics and after events of high school, that the study be brought up to university levels. The police school would, in effect, be turned into a sort of educational and research center under the state police officer and would be made up of a school agency for the study. The University of Akureyri and Keilir were specifically mentioned. In addition, there are other excellent suggestions under which, among other things, age peaks will be removed, telecommunications will be emphasized, and as I said earlier, the state of the police school, which will be changed to educational and research sites where it is expected that they will also be adopted as ideas of a powerful re-education, ongoing education, and so on. What I want to ask the highest. A minister to see that following this report, a higher group, in January 2015, was appointed to expand the proposals for police training. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister when we expect that group to be completed, for this matter has been a significant period of discussion, and there are various opinions. I'd like to say for myself that there's evidence there by various means, so I haven't finally developed my position on the best way to go, but I'm convinced that it's an enormous and urgent task to promote police and education so that this important profession can deal with the projects that our modified community is dealing with. I would also like to ask a minister if she has completed a decision - making process to form a basic question about moving her study to a university degree, and making a deal with a school agency is being done in ways rather than in other ways. I noticed that the remaining group, according to reports, was appointed to two members of the administration, an independent party and a forwarding party, as well as to the chief police officer of the capital area. I wanted to ask the minister, in view of the fact that this is a matter of interest to us all, or whether the other reasons were decided not to seek out the claims of all classes and only orders of members of the administrations. To me, it is true that certain novelty is seen in the sight of members of the greater part organized into such groups that are primarily, we can say, dealing with professional solutions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u136	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for taking up this case here. You're right about what you're doing. A senator suggests that these suggestions are very interesting to me. As we have noted, the main outcome is that the State Police School is still an independent unit, and it's with emphasis on educational and research sites, I don't have to repeat it again as long as it depends. A senator said so. And since the study will be moved to university and to the basic education of a police officer, there would be a two-year book study and a year's schooling to be completed with a bacalaureate degree. Now I'll be very honest with you. A senator. I've just had to handle this matter a little before I've been able to develop a proper view of what I think is best. I share their opinions with me. A senator's concern is that police education is very important. How vital that work is, and we need to be careful to honor it all! But I have not been prepared to get married in this respect, and I have to get the time I need to evaluate it. That is why I wanted to look more closely at the content of my study and the education of the police. In recent years the trend has been that a large greater proportion of the Icelanders who have applied for school have student testing, trade education, or have even completed a university test. I emphasize that they too have been educated in trade. Clearly, the police work calls for well - educated, well - trained, well - equipped police officers who can do as much of the overall police work as possible, but the police work is calling for increased special attention. I would also like to highlight special training and training of part of the police and special practice in certain aspects of her work, whether due to public police work or the investigation. They also come to the importance of ongoing education in view of police officers, that later in life they need increased knowledge. I feel that this is very important when we look at the fact that they have more specialized jobs than they can do, they have to be able to pursue education in that field. It was for these reasons that I decided to appoint this new group, now merely thinking while I am during this pregnancy I am still at this police school. He should have the responsibility to review the content of law school in this country, both the content of basic and after study, and to provide suggestions on how to promote the study so that it takes into account community needs and is in accordance with existing procedures. I'm sure this group will have returned my proposals on May 18 Because this question is for cross - laity consultation, it was by no means a thought on my part to walk past a parapolitic conversation. I don't want to say that I came to the relevant party as a representative of the council in itself, but I just wanted to hear a certain point of view from these specific agents, and that's why I got them in this job at this stage. But I completely agree with what. A senator that it is very important that there is a wide agreement for the training of the police and that I will agree. I'm stressing very much that it will be. But I'm not at all at any time with this case, so I'm ready to ask the questions that I would like from my side to such a talk. But I'm the first and last to agree with it by reason. A senator wrote that it is very important to consult with members of each body when the work comes forward. Again, so that I may continue to use unfortunate Icelandic in this case, I have neither given up nor walked long enough so as to be able to answer this question in ways that are different from this one.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u137	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for very honest answers. I can respect the fact that some things have to go longer than others; some children need to walk longer than others, that's just how it is. I'd like to say about the suggestions myself that I feel they have a measure of ambition for police education and education in the country that is important. The report compares evolution only with Norway and Denmark, where this study has been introduced at a university level. For my part, I say that if a minister had developed cross - political consultation, I would have been very interested in obtaining a further analysis of how things are to develop in other parts of Europe, for example, and to get that information. I've read this report, and it made me feel that the members of the board are members of a job that I think is important for a job that is well done, a job that matters to our education, our community, and all of us. Therefore, I would like to sharpen a minister in the use of parapolitic consultations. I've seen this trend elsewhere. For example, it has been observed that the members of the board of directors are involved in the affairs of university unity - not at the highest level. Minister of state. In the case of matters that are primarily important to our achieving professional success, I strongly emphasize that we try to have the most discussions, both within the politics but also with the community. So I encourage a minister to do so, but I respect that the matter has not yet been taken into consideration. On the other hand, I give a great deal of interest in bringing up a subject, for this is very important to the development of law enforcement in the coming years. We look at a radically different society, as I did in the past, in terms of using the Internet, using technology, and various things. It is also important to protect the freedom and rights of the citizens who need to be part of this education. [[The president calls.]] We're dealing with big business here, and I'm saying at least we're willing to participate in their modeling. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u138	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the urgency. I agree with that. A member of the council that this is such a case is that it is very important to have great peace with him and that the training we pursue by police is to make the most of what they do. I pause at my reeducation or my ongoing education and wonder if we too need to examine it when you have more work to do. I'm particularly interested in seeing what it's like in other countries. I know only in Britain, where I made a careful examination. There's huge demands on police officers and women who get on the inside. Police officers - and what it's called all, they're using all kinds of points there -- they have to take heavy and heavy tests and I guess there's more to it, I just checked it because I had connections there. When you look at the offenses that have been involved here, the drug abuses of all kinds of sensitive offenses against women, it is important that the researchers involved in these machines receive an education in this field and you can find the police' interest in it. We are talking about basic education and then about the important after study, which must be part of this. It's a big, big deal, and a lot bigger when I started looking at it, but I felt at the beginning when I looked at the latest report in the Ministry. I promise that I will have a lot of consultation as we progress, but I restate on what I said here earlier that I have not been prepared to pronounce my opinion on the matter yet. But it's all coming together.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u139	A respectable president. There's a lot going on in Iceland in prison. A new prison is being constructed as well as a bill to new laws on full punishment. However, the seeming lack of reform is disappointing. A new prison on Hólmshön is not meant to ensure extra harnessing, as this is a security prison, not a prison of the type where the procedure is intended to ensure a prisoner's reform. It is also clear from the financing of the construction of a new security prison that donations for reform are not available. Also, in the bill to a new law on the full penalties, it is not to mark a turning direction toward reform. It would have been nice, and it may still be a good idea to set up a reform policy, as our neighboring states have done, and especially Norway. Norway puts emphasis on reform. It emphasizes the ability of prisoners to work or to educate themselves, as well as to look into exemplary conduct. Norwegians have the lowest recurrence rate in Europe, so I would like to hear from the highest level. Whether to look to the rest of the northern nations in reform matters is not a matter of concern. Of course, the purpose of correction is that people are better equipped to live and work in the community when they come out of prison than when they went in. Well, it's actually... It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... to activate the prisoner, to appreciate his behavior, and to draw closer to his family and to his community. Another important factor that has been identified in Norway, and in Denmark it is the importance of caring for prisoners when they come out of prison. In Denmark, negotiations have been made with rural society, but Norway with a free group, such as the Salvation Army, which ensures that there is no prisoners without housing and livelihood when they come out of prison. Thus the correction continues for prisoners who want to be accepted. In this country, there is no such thing, and when prisoners come out of prison, they often disappear but the same old thing. In view of the results that have been obtained elsewhere, I would like to ask the highest. Minister of the following questions: 1st Has there been a petition policy in prisons in this country? If so, how has it been done and has been considered to be how such policies are conducted in neighboring countries? 2. What is the return rate in Icelandic prisons, and how is it calculated? And last but not least: 3. What assistance is available to prisoners after the end of the sentence? Is there an offer of assistance in housing and employment? Has such material been viewed by neighboring nations?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u140	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this three - team inquiry, and I'm going to wind up answering them as they occur, but then I might want to add other factors later. There is a question of reform policy in prisons in this country, how it has been conducted, and whether such policy has been considered in the neighborhood. Then, in the Ministry of State, judicial action is being carried out in these days, which includes all of these factors, including full punishment. In terms of the development of long-term full-term full-term programme, the project will take place on the analysis of organizational and sectoral status the full range of responsibilities and development statistics between 2010◯2013 and the four-year and twelve-year long-term regimens. The two plans will set out goals that will aim to achieve and submit to, including the following: ... tojudgmentofa prisoner. At this point, it is not available to work on these programmes, but we guess as far as the project's progress is concerned this year. I think it's very important that we make it. Then, for some time, because of a bill for the full penalties of the Ministry and the contract of that bill, there has been an especially comparable law in other parts of the North countries, which included a number of other countries. is considered to be relevant to reformation. I agree with what. Of course, we need to learn from what neighbors have done well and try to adopt it in our legislation. We take special note of them when these factors occur. It thus provides suggestions for normification in the current bill to change the rules of young prisoners' parole and to provide recordings of new resources called family leaves and other factors that encourage a prisoner to behave properly and to participate in treatment and study and other factors that generally lead to improved lifestyle at the end of the sentence. What is the return rate in Icelandic prisons, and how is it calculated? In 2010, a report on a North American study of recurrence was published in the primary system. The study thus stated that the sentence tolerance that ended in 2005, entered a community service, was monitored under probation or electronic supervision, was followed for two years to see if they had brought up a new sentence to the full since they were sentenced to an illegal prison or a probationary prison. The results of this study were that Norway had no overall recurrence rates of about 20%. Then came Iceland with 24% recurrence rate, Denmark 26%, Sweden 30%, and Finns 31%. Furthermore, the results showed that Iceland had the best results in the community service group or similar measures. I think it's very important to draw that point up, since that group only had a comeback rate of 16%. Of course, we would like to do even better, but this shows the importance of community service. But in that case, there was a return rate of more than 20% in the other countries. In view of how well they have given up, the bill to the full punishment mentioned above makes room for these provisions. This suggests that more prisoners will have a chance to complete an electronic sentence. There are also other findings in the above - mentioned report that are available on the website of the branch office. A very important point is asked: What assistance is available to prisoners after the end of the sentence? In this regard, housing and employment matters were discussed and viewed in neighboring countries. Then I can describe my view that this is a very important thing, what happens to this person when punishment ends, how are they able to get back into society and avoid getting back into the situations that led to their going to prison? The other is so different that it is not totally in the area of the State Department, although we are interested in observing how this wind unfolds. We're talking about individuals who complete a sentence getting a general service in the welfare system and each rural society so that the assistance involved is on the responsibility of the Ministry of Health. But I do have the sea, now you don't know if it can be used, conversation, or consultation with the Ministry of Health to connect these classes. It is very important that this is done in such a way that what we do in the justice system more closely harmonizes with what is being done in the welfare system for the benefit of those in this situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u141	V.E.G. President. How vital it is to be very supportive of prisoners at the end of a sentence and to do everything possible to make sure that they have a safe way of disappearing, a home, a job, or a further study if they are studying! We have to look for ways to make sure they don't go back to the same way. If they are left without support in situations that they do not trust to face, such as excessive debt due to previous disorder, they are very likely to lose their legs and return to illegal practices. An amazing number of prisoners are filled with hopelessness and again become involved in the misuse of drugs and its resulting crimes. How vital it is for the prisoner, and especially for the community, to break that wicked cycle! The financial benefits for the entire community are vast, not only the offender will stop causing financial damage to others and the community through his crimes but also the prospect of human beings who are used for upbuilding things and to create valuables. Every dollar involved in supporting prisoners for study and for work, and in broad support after abduction, it multiplys itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u142	President. I thought it proper to enter into this discussion. I'd like to discuss this only from what I believe is the availability of studies, apart from the fact that those who have the possibility of extramarital education, if they meet conditions for such purposes, will be able to further their education, and in particular in terms of education. Then I want to ask the highest. Minister for one thing. In Akureyri, there is a prison guard who is a teacher who has sought a pay raise in order to guide teachers, but there is a sharp difference in the availability of prisoners to teachers. They only have telecommunications available from all over the world, except for Little Lava. So I would like to ask if there was a discussion within the Ministry, since I understand this was denied, probably by the previous secretary, I don't know. But I'd like to know more about this, because I believe that this is one of the ways that would help people to get to the point of being able to have support within the prison. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u143	A respectable president. I welcome the highest attitude. Minister of the seminars. For my third question, i.e. I think that's a problem we could solve, but if we look at that problem especially on the basis of the individual coming out of prison, which is not such a matter as a matter of general welfare resources, i.e. in cooperation with what the Ministry of Health represents, but as part of the programme, with the ultimate punishment. That's why I'm so happy to hear it. Ministers should have been talking to the welfare minister, if I understand correctly, or any member of the Ministry of Health on those matters and encouraging the memento as well as the most radical and best that we could possibly do in my opinion in the interests of reform, apart from continuing to try to improve the work of two categories, on the other hand, in education, and on the other hand, in work. We often talk about education that is good and good and important, but we sometimes forget to talk about work. Such is the case among prisoners. It is very difficult for them to find work while in prison because there is very little work to do. The prison may be charged with the slightest occasion, so for good reason it may be possible to set up prisons that protect the workplace in an effort to create some type of routine for those who want to work but not necessarily learn to do some book study. But once again, I'm glad to hear it. These questions should be addressed by a minister. But I have to say, too, that I didn't notice when I read the signs that the bill is very much about reform. [[The president calls.]] That's why I'm wondering if it's the highest. The Minister of the inside is ready to examine the matter further.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u144	A respectable president. I thank you for the discussion that has become of a good inquiry. The foreman on this matter. I agree with what. A senator's concern is that after the end of this period of human life, how can he succeed in restoring a new life? Of course, this is true not only of the importance of study but also of being able to get into the job and make a living. I think it's a key factor in how to achieve the future, and that's why I've been looking to it. About what was mentioned here about Akureyri, I just needed a chance to look at it. I can't answer it here, I don't have an answer on my own because of that particular case, but I'm certainly ready to look at the Department of Ministry as to what is behind it. So I don't want to give any answers one way or another until I have any more information about it. I'll get that information, and we can talk about it, me and you. A senator after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u145	V.E.G. President. As everyone knows, this has become a most adventurous growth in tourism, a subject of pleasure. So this industry is the largest part of the country. This has its dark side, however, because the article is called on black employment, especially as a bedside service. As everybody knows, the affairs of the tourism department are under industrial and business ministers, but while monitoring for the registration of accommodations on the hands of the police, I redirect my inquiries to the highest level. Minister of state. The situation in today's world is inexhaustible. She's a pain in the ass because there's no safety, a place to stay, and a lot of places are not taken out of fire control. The situation is intolerable because of those who are standing up in this article and whose feet are fixed toward those who do not return taxes and duties. It is intolerable for the article such as this, and knowing that a large part of income will not enter national preparation is unacceptable to the government. For that reason, I would like to direct three questions to the top. Minister: 1st Does a minister have information on how many apartments and rooms in the capital area that do not meet the requirements for registration and therefore do not have a job permit for professional renting? 2. For comparable information, is there an unscrupulous national tenet? 3. Will Ministers pay with special financial resources that the police can monitor the operation and bring it to a better outlook? Everyone sees the need to deal with today's situation. We have a growing stream of tourism, and it is predicted that the coming years will be increasing. So we must ask questions and bring the part of the article that is truly out of law and right by law. I'm aware of the bill of industrial and business ministers who are involved in simplifying registration, but even though I'm pleased that part is simplified, I'm not interested in bringing laws to illegalities, i.e. adapting the law to the breaking of law in the land. To say that, I rejoice that the simplicity is upstairs, but I want to direct these three questions to the highest level. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u146	A respectable president. It is difficult for me to answer this inquiry so sufficient, that I believe, because of the fact that this is only part of a matter of my ministry or the State Department. I will try to answer those questions as best I can as well. A senator has testified, but he would like to say at the outset that my answers will not be entirely satisfactory based on the questions he has raised because they are also relevant to another ministry, and most of all, I would think. So I'd kind of like to encourage them. A senator to address this question also to the Ministry of Employment, so that a clearer form of the case than I can give in this answer. Hv. The client asks about the number of apartments and rooms rented by tourists in the capital area that do not meet registration and therefore do not have employment permit. I can't answer it adequately on my part as the Ministry of Internal Affairs does not have information on the construction of the capital area or information about whether they meet the requirements for registration, nor does it have information on how to use a facility that is not deemed authorised under law. 85/2007, about restaurants,houses and entertainment. We simply don't have that information in our hands, and we don't collect that information. The causes of these fall, on the basis of current Presidential decision, under the Ministry of Professional and Neons and may even be said to be partly involved in a case that could fall in part under the Ministry of Environment, only to be considered. Then I'm talking about all these rules. This is a group of subjects that go this way, and the answers reflect it. Hv. A senator only mentioned the bill of industrial and business ministers, and I would like to discuss it a few words. It has a warrant for individuals, not lawyers, to rent out their apartment for up to eight weeks a year. According to the bill, there is a registrational function, not a permit, now and with the bill trying to meet what we know is happening, and the function comes up on the surface and the framework is simplified. You can then have your opinion on how to handle such matters, but it's very important that things get to the surface, I think that's a great improvement. If humans want to go beyond that, we may first have to recognize how the environment is. It is certainly true that in accordance with the legal requirements of restaurants, boardrooms and entertainment, the county authorities grant permission for the sale of the premises and the sheriffs to supervise the implementation of the law and thereby monitor the permit of the license and comply with the conditions of the license, such as the doorkeepers, the permit of payment time and the number of guests, etc., as we know about the regulations for the restaurants and shelters. Whether this law on police surveillance has to do with the responsibility of the police to identify those who have not applied for roomkeeping is considered a matter of opinion. Therefore, the information asked by the inquirer is not available in the Home Office. The same is true of the second question, whether there is comparable information due to an unemployed national tenet. The State Department does not have data to answer that question. Third, it is asked whether a minister intends to pay for it by special financial means that the police can monitor and improve this operation. At this point, we have not looked at the cost of this particular matter. However, this is part of the police'work, she needs to set priorities, and it is of course vital that she have the money she needs to care for her work. Actually, it's the assignment that we in the State Department have been most concerned with the financial resources, that we get the money the police need to do in order to do their work. However, this issue has not been resolved any further in the Ministry of Internal Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u147	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Sæmundsson for taking this important discussion, and thank you very much. Minister for an excellent answer. It is important to keep up the surveillance of accommodations, for we have to face the fact that in many areas, space or apartments are in black rent to tourists. Some time ago, during diagnostic work involving housing at the Ministry of Health, it was found that hundreds of apartments in the city of Reykjavík are under black rent to tourists. Increased surveillance would, I believe, quickly return more money to the state funds and could even become the motivation for the housing owners involved in this operation to get apartments and loose campers on long-term rents. Thus, there could be an increase in rent markets, more apartments, and the increase could even reduce rent prices that are greatly improved.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u148	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you very much. Minister for her answers. I realized that when this inquiry was submitted, it was a challenge for the highest level. A minister to answer the questions because this overlaps between counsel, which I had been advised to do. On the other hand, I want to point out the highest. According to the information I myself have acquired, especially with those in this article, there will be over 1,000 apartments and rooms in the capital area that are rented without having them recorded. I did it for fun to go into Airbnb this morning and there were over 500 holdings, i.e. to rent. I also know that the travel agency has sent out governments, expected employment and innovations, a list of individuals they know to rent out without having an appropriate registration. So I say, while the police may not be willing to take any initiatives in this regard, of course, the police can take up the initiative as they have the opportunity, I feel alone that when the travel agency sends such a list to the government, it is really a call for the government to step up and monitor the operation. It is natural to realize that where you have an address, phone number, email address, etc., e.g. in Airbnblance, the police should be at the palm of the system to monitor the registry, just by regular surveillance by mail numbers. We can't forget, too, that there is a fine in having an unwanted apartment or a room for rent. [[The president calls.]] There I met with income in the state funds, so I would celebrate very much and encourage the minister to put on extra money in the meantime to the police to take care of that. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u149	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for putting this matter into light. Although I have not been able to give more satisfying answers than this, I think it is important to discuss the matter at least here at the conferences. I don't know the list as a dog. A senator mentions and may have been sent to another department, at least not recognized as a member of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. I think they'll look into it there, they must. I also think the bill is the highest. Industrial and commercial ministers are already involved in this case, and it's also very urgent. We know that there has been an explosion in this field, and often in such cases the government is a little behind on the case. We need to get it right and give ourselves some time to do so. But I can't give any further answers at this point.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u150	A respectable president. I'm here asking for the protection of a cave which is a case that was introduced in my history at the Environment Ministry. The meeting committee was formed, which produced in the spring of 2013. The main proposal of the consultation committee was that the stones of the land would be declared peaceful but also separated by three categories according to the level of peace. The groups would be made up of caves that would be shut down all the public traffic, reveries that would be open to tourists, and then open caves that would be open to everyone without supervision. This work was initiated primarily on the initiative of the Árni B. Stefánsson, who has been a great warrior in the protection of caves in Iceland, and has also made a particular battle of respect for them. This proved to be a significant need for work, which was carried out at the site of the Conference Committee, where traffic and association of caves are and, in some respects, have been quite random and not sufficiently dependent on the rules set or put in place by each cave. The board reported to me at the time and suggested that the guidelines for the protection of caves be strengthened in the protection laws of nature, the spills and the public education databases would be established, and it was also suggested that workers of the reservations and other spills use special instruction on the flow of caves. Then the commission suggested that a search committee be set up for a cave that would advise on the implementation of and by caves and their registrations. The advisory committee continued to be arranged on these terms. At this point, the writer of this case had to have his hands set up in a somewhat faster way than in April 2013 to appoint the advisory committee. My request to the highest. Environment and resource minister is: Since its appointment in April 2013, what has been accomplished by a consulting committee on the protection of caves? Then and again: Are there plans for her continued work to be a place of protection? - in accordance with the proposals of the consultation committee at the time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u151	A respectable president. I'm happy to hear it. A senator in the course of a cave counseling committee, not unusual, as shown in the case of a man. The senator set up the committee while she sat in the seat of the Environment and Resource Minister. In the case of the senator, the Commission was appointed in April 2013, and there are five representatives in this committee. The EEA, Iceland's Natural Science Institute and Iceland's Hell research organization each owns one representative, then the Chairman and vice president are appointed by the Environment and Resource Minister. The committee has held nine meetings in these two years, including one meeting with institutions and associates. In addition, the committee has had other relationships. We can agree that cave protection is a very important protection in this country. Iceland is rich with caves, especially lava, which are rare worldwide. However, caves are also interesting for tourists and demand, and several caves in this country are already being used in large quantities of tourism. A view of the grave is also an increasing part of public outdoor care. It has shown that the aims of the Committee are to strengthen the progress of the hospice protection in this country, including by following the proposals of the previous Ministry on a cave matter performed from November 2012 to April 2013. I must say, these proposals for the protection of the cave I am here with feel very interesting, and I'm also very pleased with the suggestions and ideas presented here, for example. The classification, and I don't have to go over it. The senator did it before. In addition, the committee suggests eight suggestions, and one of them is just about the counselling committee set up quickly by the then minister and only as good as saying. Then we ask: What? I believe that with the work of the Committee, the matter of cave protection has already become more visible in the general board of directors. Of course, the committee has been working on specific topics that are presented, but it must be said that the committee was untimely planned, that was no time on it when it was set up. But I think it's important here to deal with matters about caves, both in their defenses and in how we see their use in tourism and general outdoors, and where one is naturally somewhat afraid, so to speak. That is why it is absolutely essential that all of this be charted and done well. To complete this, however, it can be said that we in the Ministry have just the opinion of how we would prefer to do this work and where it will be best placed in the future and how, as well as whether a consulting committee such as has been established is the right form or if it is appropriate otherwise.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u152	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. I wondered, maybe it didn't seem clear enough in the Minister's case, so I'm just asking straight and straight out. The 2013 report, which is now two years ago, suggests that the protection of caves will be supported by natural protection laws. I'd like to ask the Minister if it's in the water and put in a cave database, if anything has been done in it. Also, whether public education has been increased and is expected to have information on the existence and role of the advisory committee, as well as on the Ministry's website and how it has been established. Then I'd like to ask about the suggestion that workers of the reservations and other councils through caves receive special instruction on the road to the cave, whether this education has taken place, is likely to have been guided by the EEA, if it ever happened. V.E.G. At the end of his case, a minister asks whether a consulting committee is the right way. Of course, in the management board and in our service to the general public, it is always necessary to wonder if we are going the right way, but I would like to ask what course that work is and to determine if a counseling committee is on the right hand and who is involved in evaluating whether a consulting committee is a good tool for protecting caves. Then I want to ask the highest. A minister to see if the counseling committee has received much effort and if she has received an assignment and any assessment of how well she has benefited from these objectives.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u153	A respectable president. Natural protection laws have been taken throughout the winter at the Ministry and with a number of stakeholders, members, etc., and I think that a very good job has been done to look at the laws we were assigned to do. General. The X chapter of their code contains laws for special protection of certain ecosystems and soils, and this special protection is naturally referred to by lava. But I really hope that a review of that law will happen sooner than later to the Council. There's been nothing yet returned to me from this consulting committee as long as I've been in the Ministry, so I'm telling you clearly. I have learned from her chairman that the committee may not have been as active as she had chosen to be. Of course, it is always very difficult to know what is right, to evaluate things, and to determine if anything is exactly the right tool is certainly always a bit of a matter. That's what we're always talking about, rolling, but truly, and I want to reiterate it, we certainly want us to have some kind of tool in our hands, and it's strong and active. That's why you ask yourself, " Was there something that didn't go 100%? ' However, the committee has held as far as I could in the past nine meetings, other members of the organization, and the work field. That's all I can really say about the situation right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u154	A respectable president. I have a request to ask an Environment and Resource Minister for a review of the legislation on environmental impact assessments, as noted, and concerns whether a minister should consider it proper to re-evaluate environmental assessments with the aim of shortening the time of the evaluation and increasing the availability of a subunity to the process in accordance with the Árose Convention. This request is somewhat in line with the bill for a law that has been distributed at the council but has not been measured because it is a large number of cumulative matters that have not yet been reached, but it has previously been delivered at the last legislation meeting. The key point is that the time of implementation of the environmental assessment of the Agency is reduced from ten years to seven years, i.e. 1.mg. Section 12. Then say, by permission of the president: If the Agency does not start within seven years of the opinions of the Agency on environmental impact, the permission holder shall request a decision to review the part or overall assessment of the Agency before granting permission to conduct [...•7] What is really fundamental is the fact that there has been an increasingly increasing number of tools on whether or not the environment has changed since environmental assessment and to the publication of a procedure. In this case, it is very often used in areas with some kind of protection or at least a matter of opinion about the value of the protection and whether counter measures presented in the evaluation are sufficient, etc. I know that when the first bill was given to correct environmental assessment, it was expected that it would be seven years, and then ten of it became part of the council, so the thought has been there at its time. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers in this position because I expect us to share in the vision to want all information to be as good as available before permission and that we are careful not to build even permission on information that has come to our age or that at least we are instruments that have survived the test of time. I may go to my second speech under this point on the arrival of a sublingual organization in accordance with the Árús agreement, but first, this part of the inquiry. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u155	A respectable president. In April 2014, a change in the European Union Directive on the assessment of environmental effects was adopted in 2017. This in itself requires review of environmental impact laws on the basis of the directive. Then it is reasonable to review the experience under the implementation of the environmental impact assessment in this country for more than 20 years. I'd also like to say that I think we should learn a lesson from the experiences that have been collected in those 20 years and that at any given time we're alert to the better aspects of our legislation and to the implementation of it in view of the constantly changing environment in which we live, as the senator was able to do so, that the circumstances can change, and especially in Iceland. The OECD assessment of the environment in Iceland has identified factors that need to be supplemented with assessments of environmental impact, mainly including factors related to the deadline and certain inefficiency in the reporting process in the country. The Agency has also pointed out that there is a basis for a comprehensive review of law - enforcement experience, which is mainly about how to simplify the process, improve efficiency, and improve the quality of the time. I remember reading that it was six years in the first law, but it doesn't matter whether it was six or seven, it's true that men have been thinking about the duration. I feel that at the beginning of the revision, it is normal that the time period is also revised. I'd like to answer the second part of the inquiry, even if we'd find out more about it afterwards. I believe that the introduction of public, stakeholders and environmental and natural protection organizations to the assessment of environmental impacts is a key factor in the development of organizations and the general public. The Worker Convention's Directive on the participation of public and free partners was adopted by the European Union's Directive on the assessment of environmental impact in 2003. By my knowledge, the Arasian Convention is quite open and flexible by exporting. It does not specifically address the review of the report, as advice on environmental impacts is very variable. This has also been the Ministry Assessment, and we have consulted a university professor who believes that our introduction is satisfactory. However, it is always a question of whether it is right to expand charges. I think it's normal that we make some progress in the North countries, for example, the assessment of environmental impacts as well as those directives. They were last implemented here by law on environmental impact assessments by the law in 2005. As I'm saying, I believe this material is pretty well placed in the law, but there may be reasons to review this important environmental issue when it comes to revising the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u156	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. It is very important that these laws work for Iceland and the Icelandic environment, the Environmental Assessment Act. In the case of the highest. According to Minister OECD, special attention might be given to the deadlines and to things that are involved in efficiency, complete approach, operations, etc. I'll be happy if it's the best. Ministers intend to look into the law in light of this, and in fact, I think it is always important to legal legislation that suggests that the law is as transparent. It's a great jungle, and it's often a great challenge to our rural society to go through these great processes and deadlines, presentations, etc. So it's just a constant and alert subject that we work on with our communities at any given time. It may be right next to the highest level. Ministers that it was six years in the beginning, rather than seven, but as the minister says, it was not the biggest case, but the idea that it was originally less than the ten years. V.E.G. It is true, of course, that the International Convention is open and flexible and that all of that, and that is why I think there is every reason to wonder if it is not right to write it clearly into the legislation on environmental impact assessments, i.e. That an environmental, outdoor and interest organization with a minimum of 30 partner organisations may request a review in addition to the recruiter and the permission of the Member States in accordance with the Worker's Directive on increasing participation in environmental decision-making by the public. [[The president calls.]] I think that would be a good and symbolic addition to our understanding of the Conspiracy Convention.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u157	A respectable president. Thank you for your excellent conversation. This will be a matter of repetition. This will review the factors presented in my previous speech at this review. It is also true. A senator could arrange, some rural communities would be lost in this jungle, and it is asked that all legislation be simplified so that it is clear to those who need to use it. I mean, with the Árose Convention, all I can say is that it's probably fine, and that's under here. We have received the request that an organization with more than 30 members have this right, and that will be considered.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u158	V.E.G. President. The worst - paying group of pension workers is those with reduced pay or partial payments from the State Department because they have been living abroad part of their working years. This is true not only of those who have been born here but who have been living and serving abroad as well as of people who have been born abroad but who have moved to the land in adulthood. It has increased in this group since 2008 and will see that there is going to be an even greater growth in it in the future. The system today operates to enable a person to earn full rights to pay from the social security system with a 40-year-old living in this country while he is 18◯67 years old. There is also a requirement for a three-year living in this country for a microenergy pension application and a responsortment of life as well. The individuals involved here are to or should have, the right to pay from their previous residence. The problem, however, is that the right is usually due to the payment of the eligible pensioner even if a treatable contract is in force between Iceland and the former home country. Thus, these individuals have to rely on long - term financial support from fellow rural society, making it possible for them to live in partial pay or in-house reduced pay all their life, while comparable rules also apply for pensioners and the relative pay of pensions take a relative amount of currency. I'm concerned about the financial supply of this group and I want to direct the following questions to the highest level. Social and housing minister: 1st Is there a minister of a functioning committee or group who has the responsibility of inspecting the position of a pensioner in the Icelandic social security system prepared in Iceland but who receive reduced pay because they have been living abroad? If not, does a minister consider forming such a committee or a working group? 2. Does the United States give depositors reduced funds to collect money from a social security system in their previous home country? 3. The Minister's careful review of 3 mg. Section 15. Regulation No. 1052/2009 with a cut-off of specific extensions for foreign living so that the minimum extension of all pensioners can be ensured?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u159	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir wants to know if an employee is a committee or a group who are responsible for inspecting the status of a pensioner within the Icelandic social security system living in Iceland who receive reduced payment because they have been living abroad. And if it isn't, whether a minister has any intention of forming such a committee. I know why. A senator is aware that jobs are called on a review of social security laws under the top of circumstances. paritaprevir Pétur H. Blöndalur. At the tenth meeting of the Committee, as shown in a meeting, the Commission was granted permission of the Supreme Court. President, that a special group of experts should view the status of immigrants as well as the implementation of those in this country who have only earned low social security and pension systems here and abroad. The Ministry's answer to the Qualifications Community from March 2 onwards, asking about the continuation of the expert group on this matter, whether it was intended to submit proposals to a minister or to a committee on the review of the Social Security Act, stated that the Ministry's evaluations were the right to direct the inquiry to the Commission in which the expert team operates in its agent. I thus assume that the Commission's proposal will take over the position of bio-employers living here but not fully paid because they have lived for such a short time here in the country. However, I have obtained information from the Ministry members who attend a meeting of the Committee and are in the above - mentioned expert group that the decision was made to wait for the Commission's proposal before making a decision on a decision regarding the rights of those who have limited rights in this country within the social security system. Their main reason is that the material content of the committee is of great importance to the proposal that the experts will make regarding this particular group of individuals. It is also possible to wonder whether there is a right to speak of damage in this relationship, that there is a decrease due to foreign living, where social security rights in Iceland work on the basis of Iceland's farms. Bumblebee, like what. A senator went over, for 40 years of age, 18How67 years old, gives full right to pensions, while less water gives the relative right to social security laws. The years leading up to 67 years of age are also taken into account in the decision of microenergy pensions under the same law. In addition to the legal rights of the social security system, the rights from legal pensions come on the basis of jobs here on the basis of the country's work and pay-offs. Those who have lived abroad are often in the position of not earning full rights in Iceland and may have earned rights in their previous residence, which come in addition to the rights they have earned in the Icelandic Social Security System. For this, there are similar rules in European countries and, in fact, Iceland is doing quite well with its pensioners in this respect, including extrapolation of disability to 67 years of age. It continues to be asked whether help is being provided to get the financial support provided from a social security system in your previous home country. When a mutual international agreement is in force with that country, the State's National Insurance Agency is mediated and assisted by a pension application to the relevant state, based on a Regulation from 2012, which includes the implementation of the Council of Europe's Regulation and the Council on the coordination of social security systems and the agreements made by Iceland in the area of public security. However, this is not appropriate when there is no contract. Whether to review certain regulations in Regulation No. 1052/2009, which provides the calculation of a specific extension for foreign living to ensure the minimum extension of all pensioners. As I told you before, I'm waiting for a proposal from the Committee to review a social security law. I'm hoping she'll come back with spring, although there may be some delay in the summer, and I know that there's been quite a bit of a follow-up there. Therefore, I don't think it's time to make changes in the regulations involved in this matter, but to wait for the proposals of the committee to take action thereafter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u160	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. A minister for the answers, but he needs to express a certain disappointment that I would like to see that there was more work to be done, and I would like to say more systematically with this group that often needs to rely on a huge amount of money. I've even heard figures down to 80 grand. K. which they receive from the government insurance agency, and they don't get any money from their previous estate. I must express concern that this particular case, i.e. exchange pay, not getting enough value on a well-known committee. paritaprevir Blöndalur H. Björns, and I also declare disappointments as not to wait until the committee returns. For the rest, I think - yes, well, insurance agencies are involved in the terms of a contract with a farm country, but it does not seem to be enough on the basis of how much people don't get paid, in their bank account. So I would like to use this opportunity to encourage the minister to take these matters more seriously and put them in a better position. [[The president calls.]] In my opinion, this can't go on so permanently. We need to make sure that the people involved here are able to live in a decent life - style whether by increasing the payment from our system or by spending more money to make sure that they are paying abroad. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u161	A respectable president. Thank you for word. A senator I view as an encouragement to continue working on this matter. I am confident that the suggestions and suggestions will be nominated. paritaprevir Pétur H. Blöndalur will soon return to us. The next goal is to put all the power into working in the so - called social security laws. A well-to-do has been working on a global review, which is more about technical implementation, and I assume that suggestions will be involved. In particular, as I mentioned, the extension has been a big part of the committee discussion, and how it is best to introduce a new system to the future so that there can be support for the 52 thousand head of pensions in a insurance institution.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u162	Madam President. I'd like to talk to the highest. Ministers for the services of disabled persons, the litigation party taken to the countryside in 2011. There should be no secret now that the transfer has been complained that enough money has not been supplied, but I have seen to it that it does not count as a minister. Criticism has been a bit cruel, even speaking about returning it to the State. I'm happy with the minister's answers that she doesn't accept it because I don't think it's wise, and I really think that's not what the locals want. Of course, they want this to happen because our service has been successful, as you say, as far as it goes. The idea was to move the service into the community and improve it, adapt to the needs of users, make it whole, strengthen the level of government, and ensure good management of funds. In the United States alone, a strong criticism was made on the part of the Icelandic community and the relationship is that it lacks as many as 3 billion in the lawsuit so that it will take place and that the service that is now being performed can be maintained and should be performed according to the terms of the agreements in force. They say there are more than 4 of you. The number of users in the service areas defined in the country and an increase of 15% has been observed at the time since transfer, a 6% increase in adult population and 30% in the paediatric population. Since then, the number of service factors to many users has increased, the level of service has increased, including quoted a program of services for disabled people. In spite of this, however, there seems to be no indication that the list of models was supported. Among other things, the relationship points to the prolonged presence of disabled children in schools that cost some 500 billion. K. and has increased considerably. In time, some 89 million were moved. K. by the state of this project and by the balance fund, this amount has been divided. According to current government spending, only 18% of the total cost share, which is well from the 50 percent of the total time spent. In this context, I would like to ask the highest. Minister: How will the Minister respond to the position in financing of spending on the affairs of disabled persons who have been found in the social critical of Western and Northern countries, especially in regard to the restoration of the JCC funds of rural needs for the cause of the problem?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u163	A respectable president. In celebration of the question of why. paritaprevir I think Olsen Gunnarsdóttir's daughter's bejesus should be merely a prehistoric. The transfer of services to disabled persons from state to country was adopted at the General Assembly on December 17, 2010. Earlier, the agreement between state and rural society on the development of the ministry since November 23, 2010, became valid on January 1, 2011. According to the agreement, in 2014 a joint assessment of the state and community should be conducted on the business and financial achievements of the transfer. Furthermore, if there is a major disorder on the grounds of the transfer, a discussion between the state and the country's members should be made about the necessary corrections. The protocols due to the reassessment are in 2011◯2013. Work on reevaluation began in 2013, and on springtime, I appointed a projector to supervise the implementation of the reassessment. The project board also represents the local members of the Three Advisorals. Work on professional assessments of the ministry ended last year. In the agreement on financial frames of the transfer, the budget was made by President: ◯ Their aim was to shift responsibility to disabled persons from state to country and to ensure fair financial frames which will take into account the scope of projects, the need for public management and joint plans to improve the quality of the public and thus provide the basis for a reduction in debt. In order to achieve this core information on the evaluation of financial progress, an overview of the income of rural society and the pantry funds in the years that I mentioned, 2011◯2013, subsidies from the state funds as well as contributions from a so - called estate fund set up within the Surgeon Fund to care for buildings used in the services of disabled persons in the transfer process and including the property of disabled persons. The real estate fund covered all the rights and responsibilities associated with that property along with other incomes because of the Party. The reexamination firm KPMG and Containment Fund compiled an overview of the country's annual account on expenses from the case of disabled persons for the same year. This showed that the total share of the services in the network network for 2011-2013 was positive about 490 million, and according to this, the target was generally met in an agreement on budgets to ensure a fair financial frame for the project. On the other hand, if you're talking about such a pleasant foundation, you should keep it up - to - date, that when you look at the foundation, it's negative about more than 540 million, depending on the payment of your rural funds on an equation. Therefore, one month is missing in rural development during the controlled period, which will be corrected in 2015. Like what? A candidate went through the talk has been changed since the seminary was over. The task management and reevaluation therefore consists of reviews of factors that can affect the decision of the final response to rural society. This includes assessments of increased service patients, assessments of potential costs due to increased service time and changes in habitats where the emphasis is on moving from home to home to an independent home. It also discusses what we are going to do about the job affairs of disabled persons and then the home places, and it is hoped that the report of the project on the reevaluation will be available on springtime. As a result, I expect discussions between the state and rural society with the final income of rural society to cover the costs of the service. In addition, I'd like to mention that the annual meeting of the state and rural society will be conducted this week and that it has been specifically requested by the Community to discuss the issues of disabled persons and the general housing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u164	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir for taking up this case and taking it to the highest. Social and housing minister, Eygló Harðardóttir, for a clear answer. It is important to remain in the case of disabled communities, since in many areas you hear voices that the service is very good and that it is successful and that people today are being served without service before it became available. It is often that when projects come into the community, the ministry changes in that way. As a minister said, a review of the transfer is being made, and voices have been heard within the countryside that it is important to harmonize standards and services based on these issues. I hope that secular work will produce the results of making peace with those in need of the ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u165	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. When she says that there are only 540 million left to go by, I wondered. Of course, there's something wrong with it, though, if our communities want to give us the job back, if they don't think they're out of the picture. Therefore, I would like to ask if the minister believes that with this correction alone - despite this summary from the local accounts and that they want to talk to her this week or the next week about these matters - there must be something that doesn't quite work out. I think it's a project that every community has more and less wanted, and we've talked about taking over the elderly, etc. But now everyone stops, and the Union of Icelandic rural society has talked about the fact that the State is adding burdensome demands to rural society, which, of course, is part of the non-employment campaign and many others. But I would've liked this committee to have been planned sooner, and we're about the results, but it's getting a little late in the ass as soon as it gets so because I believe it's done okay where it's worked out, i.e. otherwise than financially. Of course, the rural population has been paying for this. However, we need to remember not only to focus on the rights people see but also on the needs. Of course, they should take first place. I don't know if it's as simple as the highest. Minister likes to be left alone. [[The president calls.]] I wondered: " Is the Minister's opinion, in view of what I brought here on the increase and everything else, that in the funds we are putting in this, we are taking into account the changes in the case?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-13-87.u166	A respectable president. I appreciate the discussion on this subject. I'm going to get a report on the reassessment, but it often takes a lot more than the fact that we underestimate how long a big project takes, whether we're talking about evaluating it, like the big change that happened to bring this party over, or any other work we're doing at the Board of Directors. I mentioned some factors that can have a major impact on the decision of the final response to rural society. Now, for the latest results on the development of the rural society through the balance fund, people were shooting there, I would say better practice, professional practice, to base the decision on the distribution of capital capitals on the basis of the so-called SIS assessment. As a result, some societies who had been very disgruntled before became more settled. I felt that there was an recognition that the people would need more service while other rural groups were not at odds because the results of the SIS indicate that too much money went there before, in line with the need for service. Then there are factors that I think we simply need to discuss, whether or not we need to better frame the integration of social services laws and the affairs of disabled persons, i.e. any service the rurals should provide. This, in turn, has to do with the endless discussion of rural autonomy, which is more consistent in the service phase and which level of service should be exactly the same.
