ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u1	The president would like to announce that a change has been made on the program for meetings scheduled for Monday and Tuesday, rather than for committee meetings. This was determined, among other things, by consultation with members of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u2	Mr. President. In 2013 more roads were left out than ever since World War II, at which point the United Nations Refugee Organization felt that more than 51.2 million people were fleeing. By then, an increase of 6 million had increased since the previous year, and that problem was not abated. He's, you might say, all around us. According to the United Nations Refugee Organization, over 3,500 Mediterranean refugees were drowned on their way from Africa to Europe in 2014 and in 2015 are afraid that some 1,700 people have already died, including 800 on the weekend of 18,◯19. April. These people are fleeing tragic situations, wars, poverty, and we watch the European Union close their borders, which certainly have caused the crisis within the relationship, which must be a reminder to us all that such a course is not going to work. Me and the Icelanders can do a lot of things. We've already suggested that the General conclude to hide the government that the major efforts of Iceland to save the Mediterranean rescues by free loans on a patrol to rescue and with a plan to receive refugees in the area. We can do more. According to Eurostat, only 30 of 110 applications for asylum in Iceland in 2014 received a positive answer. It's 27% who get asylum here. In contrast, there is Sweden, which is, of course, very prominent among these substances. There, 30,650 of 39,905 inmates received a positive response. That's 77%. If we followed Sólvei's example, we would receive more than 1 of you. In Iceland, refugees. The reality is that only 30 people in the last year received asylum or additional protection. We need to step up if we're going to stay in Sweden, because these matters need a lot of effort if we're going to stand by the fact that we're all equal, no matter where we were born in the world. The children born just as innocent in Syria as they were in Iceland, and the picture of the little girl who drowned in the Mediterranean during the days should serve as a reminder to us that we can do much better in these matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u3	A respectable president. I want to be chairman of the United States Congress to challenge the President of the Generals. The prime committee is to complete as soon as there can be a code of ethics for the members of the council. It is not unusual for the council to say that we have not finished that task. Of course, those who set laws and rules for others need to make sure that we have to set rules for ourselves in this regard. Similarly, it is unacceptable to recognize the rules of ethics for the Ministers, since it has been about the conflicting statements of the highest degree. Prime Minister, let me say, on the other hand, that he has declared that in force there are the rules of ethics set before the minister of the government in 2011, and in another case he has declared that the rules are in order. Of course, there is insufficient evidence to explain whether the rules are valid or whether they have some kind of reference. I believe that in view of the situation in which the Senate has and the politics regarding the trust and confidentiality of the public in this country, it should be the priorities of the leading nation, both here and in the government, to execute this conspiracy and to complete the sentence of ethical order for the generals and to make it clear that the code of ethics of the government of Iceland as well as the rest of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u4	For this reason, the president wants to say that he agrees that it is not indiscriminate that we have not yet completed this code. A good deal of work has been done, and the president expects it and has faith that we will be able to complete that work completely in the near future and, at least, at least as much as he is afraid of it, will make an effort to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u5	A respectable president. Bioavailability issues have been discussed recently, preferring the availability of wheelchairs to public buildings. Among other things, a round trip was being made in the country where wheelchairs were accessed to public buildings. Last week, in the Environmental and Transport Committee, we were given several proponents of motor disasters at a very informative but striking meeting. In a memo given to the committee, 95% of Iceland's housing is an inaccessible wheelchair, while there is at the same time 65% of the facilities on the ground floor. Also found at commercial streets, the bioavailability is below 10% for wheelchairs. It was specifically mentioned at service and restaurants that this was not needed. Here's the problem twofold. On the one hand, it focuses on projects when building new or changing old housing. This morning at a meeting with the Committee of Human Rights, it was concluded that the problem is not in new buildings but in reserves to change old housing. In construction regulations for 1979, increased bioavailability was not expected; therefore, older buildings are not required to meet everything in new regulations despite new functions. Monitoring this is on the hands of a local partner or a construction representative. It may be necessary to tighten or control this operation, not only to place the responsibility of the owner of a home. The second factor is the monitoring of bioavailability, which is observed after the use of a structure, during the management period. It has been observed that people in wheelchairs have not been able to enter a toilet or elevator because they have been locked. [[The president calls.]] Of course, this is unacceptable, so we need to clarify our surveillance program better and get it into a proper process.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u6	President. I just wanted to talk about the international work of members of the Parliament. I realized a few years ago that there is no formal process for the job that senators are participating in in abroad, especially conclusions that they take to agree with, here at the General Assembly. I discovered at the last meeting of the International Parliament that we are behind a great many countries. South Africa and Kenya have developed a very good process on how to draw attention to and encourage the government to accept the conclusions we share in accepting international approval. I find it very important that we consider how other nations do this. I spoke with the president of the International Parliament when I was there recently at a meeting and asked him about these matters. He said that after a year a special focus would be placed on this at the International Parliament's Association; it will be about how to encourage the very important conclusions we make in 163 countries, e.g. ... atthewhere. I would like to ask my fellow members if they do not support me in making a professional career about how and what will be about discussion - only once a year the report of an illegal international work is published. If we're doing this work, I feel that we should do it so that it would return to our country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u7	V.E.G. President. Yesterday, it was 1st. About two of the top four housing plants. Social and housing minister of the Eygló Harðardóttir. Today, the primary points on housing and housing services are addressed to the welfare committee. Hv. A member of the United Nations, Kristján L. Möller, spoke of how long it has been since the beginning of the work programme for the development of a report made by the Commission. I can honestly agree with why. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller that the prime products had been often allowed to enter earlier into the council. To be reasonable in the discussion, it must be noted that there was much consultation within the Ministry of Health in the processing of the bill. There was a different perspective from many observers that needed to be seen. Because of these words. A senator would like to review some facts, such as to keep things on the table. The members of the United States were Ministers of Social Affairs, Later the Ministry of Health, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, and until the election in 2013. In the average period of time, the highest. The Minister of Eygló Harderdó Harðardóttir was a social and housing minister, and when she entered the Ministry and started working on the improvement of rent-sized bills, it was found that there were no primary signals relating to improved rentouts in the years listed earlier, not even to the lay of the bills. Yet, much work was done during the last term of committees and reports on these important factors, but the ideas never appeared. Last terms were four years like most other terms so far. To hell with it. A senator critical of the present government for slowdown in these matters comes from the hardest way, it's like throwing a stone out of a glass house.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u8	Mr. President. In 2003, the 1915 Armor school and the 1890 Operating School were united under the Polytechnology School. High school society, eh? They were assigned to run the school, but they were assigned to the Union of Science, Ehf. is an organisation in the fishing road, the Association of Industrialism, Union, and the Industrial Society of Reykjavík. Since 2008, the National School of Technology and Education in Reykjavík, founded in 1904, became the School for Technology and Education, ehf. They were assigned to run the new High School of Technology. When the then minister of education was questioned into this possible partnership early in 2007, she stated, among other things, that there was no need for a legal adjustment to unite the schools, and therefore there was no reason to go over the matter further at the council. And now it's time to continue working at the head of a training school. The plan is that on August 1 will be the Technical School and the Industrial School of Hafnarfjörður united and the Education Society will be ehf. The assignment is to expel the mother - school staff in the country with a total of 33,000 students. The financial bill shows that further unity and system changes, including academics, are being considered. We've heard of changes in Bifrost and agricultural colleges and that there is unity in the North. I feel that it is completely unacceptable that the performance of the enterprise is not mandatory in coming and discussing the changes in education policy as such when it affects the availability of education, education, and even the expense of students. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u9	A respectable president. Ministers and senators are regularly reminded of their responsibilities. The discussion is often unfair and on a low level. Two major projects are upset by problems. Water history is a buggy tunnel, but no ship has been able to enter the landy crew for 160 days, i.e. For six months. [[Up front.]] The actions at the expense of another tens of billions are in a state of confusion, and society's reaction is to attract politicians. Their responsibility is great, and I'm not detracting. But who is responsible for the institutions responsible for the research and construction of the projects? In the institutions of the state, the knowledge is in place, and this is the site, where the investigator and contractors are formed. The media reports that there has been a lack of research on the part of a guard tunnel. That may well be, and I wonder who is responsible, if that was true. The island has been shut down for 160 days, six months, with immense discomfort to the islanders, and this has seriously damaged the island's tourism and employment. A respectable president. I've directed to the Minister of the Interior that when it comes to any assessment of the basis for the Landing Sea of Ireland have been established, whether the possibility of a national service meets the expectations set before the harbor. If they don't stand up, they're going to be offered suggestions on fixing the land crew. It will be determined whether the harbor will be full, even with the appearance of a shallower ferry, and the results will be immediate. It is vital that we shed light on the future of the Marine and that all things will be done to ensure and improve transport to the island and that the responsibility of everyone on the case will be clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u10	V.E.G. President. I just want to make it a subject of a news report yesterday on the State Radio claiming that the Directorate-County Committee of the Council is going to provide information on the connection between the Minister of Education and the heads of Energy Energy Energy and take the case for next week. No other than the fact that this report is under way. Ingibjörg Sigrídídíu Ingadóttir, who served this meeting as an assistant yesterday, but I need to correct this story. It's simply wrong. Of course, Ögmundur's Jónasson, president of the Board of Directors and Control Committee, corrected it on a mlb.is where the main points of the case are made right, which is the suggestion that the committee will take this matter for review from the memory of the committee. No decision was made on whether such a course should come to an end after first checking whether the matter would be subject to the committee and, if it were, on the basis of available factors. However, it is necessary to correct this misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u11	A respectable president. I'm gonna be on the same line as you are. paritaprevir Einarsson was here. We recently met some of the general council officers of the WHO and MND society and they said they weren't going down smooth. As a result, they were invited to a meeting with an environment and transport committee where their language is now being discussed. This information was found in them: Iceland is about 7 of you. subjects in a wheelchair. Suppose the average neighboring family is 15 people, which means 112 you. individuals are in the families of those who are in a wheelchair or who are in a wheelchair themselves. Thus, the bioavailability of the disabled involves a third of the nation's population, much more or less. Bad access is the primary reason for those in wheelchairs to lose contact with loved ones, friends, families, family - in - law families, the workforce, and the community as a whole. In Iceland, 95% of the people in wheelchairs are inaccessible. On Icelandic business streets, there is an availability of between 15 and 20 percent for wheelchairs. This is how Arnar Helgi Lárusson, president of the WHO organization, describes his experience, with the permission of a president, and with his own permission: ▪ I experience as a burden, especially when plans are made for entertainment, such as bar mitzvahs, theater trips, cabin trips, etc. When someone finds out I'm part of this group, everything goes to a pit, and more often than not, it's over. It's totally unacceptable to live in a society like this, and I take my mind to the words of the Chairman of the Cathedral. This is unacceptable 36 years after the legislation on bioavailability of disabled persons in this country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u12	V.E.G. President. Hv. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter made it a subject here that a large number of refugees are on their way to Europe, risking their lives to seek a better life. I agree with what. A senator says that we Icelanders are required to share in giving individuals hope in this situation. On the other hand, we must do so according to our circumstances and reasons. Because this is why we should follow Sweden's path and let them all in, I warn them, of course, we must be in a position to provide help to those who come here and do so according to their means and reasons. There are various ways in which you can do this. For example, you can look for ways here for orphans. We can take such a group, but it's perfectly clear that it is not right to open up a free flow in here without being circumstances to provide people with conditions for living, care and assistance necessary. I don't think it's right to do that. We're supposed to help people, and we're supposed to be ready to help those who come here. But only in matters of land island crews because this was called upon to establish the responsibility for this project. I'm one of those responsible for this project. I am proud of her; I was in that control group who made a decision about how to go to that harbor. The task is not finished. Building the harbor and, on the other hand, a suitable ship was twofold. The currentphelf is not intended for this harbor, it has been placed in place since the beginning. We need to finish the job and it's being done at the State Department.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u13	V.E.G. President. A recent statement by the executives of the employment driver's community attracted my attention. He recently said in the press on that route, with the permission of a president: ▪ The trade is waiting to reduce the price to consumers. This is to say that the workforce has been legalized at the Department of Professional Railway for reimbursement on farm customs. This case will be expected to be paid in the courts, but it follows this fine executive, by permission of the president: Of course, the import companies will continue to seek their rights. The store is waiting to reduce prices to consumers. All that stands in the way of this is a paratrooper of government officials who cannot accept that consumers will benefit from the benefits of voluntary business. So many were words. But the store is not used to waiting to reduce prices to consumers. I think it would be very interesting if the head of the company of professional drivers publicly declared what paradigming officials prevented the store from making a profit to the consumers of the crown's funding for a year and a half, confirmed in the recent United Nations report, and what cross-cutting officials prevented them from improving the taxation reduction in the last year's cattle-hacks and any cross-cutting officials from avoiding the reduction of sugar products from coming to action immediately after years in the tax change of the time. I think there'd be a credible sound in this store's lawsuit if it did.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u14	Mr. President. Tomorrow, 10,000 members of Iceland's Personnel Association are working on a strike, followed by an untimely strike. On May 26, an untimely strike begins, but there will be morning and day in May until that day. No one goes to a strike for fun, we know that, that's serious. People go into strikes because there is a bread of distress to walk that path and a price to pay for those who go to strike, too, large sums, and the whole community. Gallup made a survey showing that 91.6% of the population is in favor of the Commission's requirements for minimum wage of 300 you. K. For a full-time job. Of course, it is a great pleasure for this group of employees to have such initial support, but they will continue to undergo crucial, in the absence of negotiations. Granted, meeting these reasonable demands is a strong message to the Association of Employment. I feel sad about it when it happens. Councilmen here have suggested that the right to strike has to be revised, the only weapon paid by paymen, in an effort to get better benefits. I feel that members of Congress as well as others must listen to the voices and support that come from society all over the country, that society does not accept that the people of this country live here living under the pay of lice and demand that people live in decent terms. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u15	A respectable president. Because this article discussed what the executive director of the employment drivers' society said, I think it's right to have it all together. He said, with President's permission: It is quite remarkable that more than a month after the renovation of a court order, in which tender fees are said to go against the Constitution, the Ministry of industry should refuse a reimbursement requirement with no logic. It's something that's not acceptable. We can have all the opinions on the subject in general, but I have to say that I feel that this is a moral and natural view that is expressed by the executives of the employment union. I'm not going to discuss it here. I'm going to discuss the housing issues I'm worried about. When it comes to housing, I especially worry about the position of young people. The rent here in the capital area is very high and real value is very high, and it's us politicians that support it. We do so because the camp loan fund holds up real estate, including Kadeco, on Keflavík Airport, and then banks, including the U.S.A. The state bank. If we want to make something of this, we have a normal market price on these assets, we'll reduce the price of these assets because we don't see that companies and agencies owned by taxpayers need to be paid in empty housing, and even if that means there's a decrease in time, it will come back. It's not just Reykjavík and what we call neighboring communities. We have lived long ago, with the largest part of the southwest corner, the Southwestern and the Southwestern, below and the key to helping these people. We also need to consider the fact that we set a law on payment that forces people to rent even if it was inexpensive for buying. It just can't get through payment. When the system is in such a way that credit ratings push people to higher rents than they had to pay, something is wrong with that system. [[The president calls.]] We need to take a look at that, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u16	A respectable president. First, I want to say the word with the question. paritaprevir For example, Guðlaugur blessed Þór Þórðarson with regard to the way we are responsible for the maintenance of shelters, both rent and sales, in many places. And that applies to the whole country. In my hometown, a large part of the home is empty, owned by an apartment loan fund or by a single bank and cannot be rented or bought at the market price there. I have previously described from this public assembly that I am deeply concerned about the development of cases involving the city of Reykjavík. Today, therefore, I especially want to welcome a letter of the highest order. Within the state minister of Ólöf Nordal to Reykjavíkurburg from April 17th. This letter is important for the development of events, and it contains important information that the city of Reykjavík does not comply with current organizational procedures or recognizes the current administrative treatment. The letter shows that according to current planning procedures adopted by the Transport Minister and published in the Law's Code on 7 August 2009, there are inhibitors on the landing lines of the field runway, including runway 6.2.4. The structure intended for the field of Valsmans is within the area of the guidelines set out in Reykjavík, and it is therefore forbidden to build monuments that are designed for a surface, as stated in 2 mg. Fifty-niner. track No. 60/1998, through air travel. It is clear, then, that the city of Reykjavík has issued a work permit to begin a course that cannot continue unless the city's regulations are first under way. While the results of the Agency's work and the committee on the survey of flight options under the lead of Ragna Year's Árnadóttir are not available, there is no basis for publication of marketing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u17	A respectable president. It has not overlooked anyone the opposing views of the government regarding what is actually going on in terms of insurance and its delinquency. In question class on Monday, the highest score was scored. Our prime minister should go to go on google.com and try to find it out there. There'd be some news there, and we could find the truth in it. I did, and there's nothing to find out that the government is about to cancel insurance. The only conclusion there is a committee ordered by the government to forbid one particular loan party, i.e. Forty years' worth of loan. This committee produced in January 2014, and it also stipulates that January 1, 2015, should implement the procedure. ban on 40 years of loans. Another thing we can find on the Internet is that in May 2014, the government adopted a plan of action and what is found in it is exactly the same, i.e. Preparing to forbid a certain loan party, 40 years' worth of credit. Is there anything in there that tells us that this government is going to cancel insurance? No. In other words, the one being taken by the highest standard. The prime minister is exposed by doing what he tells us to do, going into the Internet, and reviewing the decisions that have been made. A respectable president. V.E.G. The minister of finance may be honest in this matter, telling the people that there will be no bail removed during this election period. However, it does not make the advance party, nor does it continue to pass over this platform to eliminate the insurance policy. The media owes the people answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u18	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a change in national law and a decision to establish boundaries, lands and national boundaries. The point of the law is four. First, the work period is extended to this year's end. It is necessary to extend the work period to the Committee beyond what is expected by the current legislation. The project was expected to be completed in 2014 by the Wilderness Committee, but now the Committee estimates that its work will not be completed until 2018. There is, therefore, a matter of extending the appointment of the Committee. In addition, further revisions of the law later this year are expected and, in this light, the work period will be extended to the end of this year. National Farmers Association in Iceland has searched for the Ministry of Presidency for sources to resurgence the general practice. In part, the organization has referred to the fact that national groups often have very old data of many kinds, and they can be read in many ways, as they have come in the day. It is, therefore, virtually inevitable that after decisions or judgments have been made, important information, even a long time later, comes in the search. The Ministry of Presidency now has to consider the problem, including in cooperation with the Unauthorised Committee on the Management Board and Re-Election Committee regarding the findings of the courts as well as a state lawyer. That study is not complete, but it is clear that once a desert committee has completed its work and is subsequently submitted, as the law expects it, new evidence may appear in cases that have not been submitted to the courts. Since there would be no channel for such matters, there is a need to ensure that such a course will be established. The plan is also to reevaluate the laws of the proper committees with the aim that the members of the committee can continue after the age of 70, as the seminar is extremely specialized and important to the growing experience and knowledge of the individual members of the committee. It may then be noted that the national affairs and laws have been greatly increased recently, and they will no doubt continue at the next loss with increased interest in using land and land rights within national lands. This requires consideration for certain matters of opinion, such as whether there are demands for permission, such as organized travel by tourists into the country as well as for extensive film projects. Second, there is the reason why this bill is suggested that there may be some uncertainty as to how to describe the terms of property clearance in nationalities. It is therefore suggested that the authority to declare the warrants of property should be handed over to the Ministry. Since the State is a member of a U.S. Unsurpassed Committee and has the owner's authority within national lands, it must be reasonable to conclude that it would be in the corner of the Ministry to conduct a hearing and that if so, it would be reasonable to announce national rights granted to the state by nomads or judges. Third, national administration projects have raised the question: Is the use of various rights better in the state than in the local community? One is the usefulness related to wind and, on the other, to natural images. The bioavailability of wind wind is very much discussed here on land these days. In the law, energy efficiency depends on the permission of the Minister, not on the local government. It must be considered that new and changing emphasis on energy efficiency in this country calls for the particular mention of wind energy being mentioned as a means of permission by Ministers with other energy efficiencys listed in the law and incorporated under the permit role of Ministers right now. The increase in the number of tourists in the country and the desire to examine various natural bulbs has raised questions about the need for individual forms of nature in many parts of the country to be on the custody of the state, which has a possession as landowner. Great interests are linked to the use of such images and are vital to success. Therefore, it is considered safe to assume that a permit squad is on the hands of the State, including the U.S. government. to protect the country from harmonisation in terms of innovation, remuneration for such efficiency and use restrictions that may be needed to protect such areas more or less, as it can be expected that the use of natural images in this way would be related to the rights listed in 2 mgr. Section 3. The law and the penalties are under the permission of the Ministry of Presidency. Does such a change involve the ability to harmonize in the way such images should be used for the well - being of the nation? Finally, in recent years, experience has shown that there is a reason to clear up the sources of municipal resources for the use of national rights and not to limit it to the specific national nations where income will be used. The laws of the law may remain unchanged. Thus, large incomes could form within a country where the local community does not feel that much structure is needed, for example, in another country where there is a great need for a position that required a financial structure. This may be related to the fact that by 2012, land induction was involved in a financial payment of nearly 1 billion dollars. for use of water rights in national lands, as well as Brattaphis due to Krumbjón Healing. This budget has not been set aside, but the national law allows for such revenues to be spent on agriculture, oversight, monitoring, and similar national projects. It is time to consider disposition, at least Part of this capital, already important, is to begin building up key tourist facilities, many of which are members of the country. A respectable president. The main element of the bill recommends that a list of the authorised uses of national rights within the minister's domain of power would increase natural images. This takes into account the regulations of the 53rd chapter. Natural protection laws, which include the creations that are scheduled for the Ministry's license role as the bill. These include waterfalls, fire stations, caves, and droops, as well as meeting places of fossils, rare fossils, rocks, and rocks. It is suggested that wind power be dropped under the permit role of a minister, as well as water and ground rights, mines and minerals, as changes in energy efficiency are essential to its ability to use 2 mg. Section 3. as I could before. There is no reason to limit the provision of income companies from the current law we allow. In this regard, there has been some evidence that money will be more useful if a rural government is possible to organize a complete structure of the countries of the rural community. I gave an example of this before how shocking it can be for a rural society if income falls into one part of the countryside, but the local community cannot arrange for it where the need for structure is urgent. It also provides a basis for setting priorities. Two. The bill is suggested at 8:00 a.m. will be changed in a way that will allow the work period to be extended to the end of 2015 and is intended to review the law before the end of that period. In the 3rd. The bill is suggested that the minister take the initiative in announcing national property clearances and thus all projects in the state of Congress should be entrusted to the Minister responsible for national matters. V.E.G. President. I have now traced key elements of the bill and suggested that the bill be followed by this discussion referred to 2nd. ... andwhat. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u19	V.E.G. President. It's named as the highest. The prime minister speaks of, as the Wilderness Committee, has been a bit of a debate in rural areas, for after being established, the national boundaries of the country have not always been so easy to find clear boundaries throughout the country and possession, especially those that have been owned by the same family for many generations, since they may not have been asked much about where the border is located on the land that is supposed to take place. There's been disagreements about land, there's been trouble with neighbors, and it's been hard to find old and even lost, even if people know where the line is. Thus, they need to be careful that a noncombat committee is not working hard. This shows how difficult and costly it can be to prove possession, but this evidence is mainly in the progressive extensions of the Committee's work period and the outcome of the cut-off procedure. In this context, I would like to warn the prime minister that the line between state and rural society is sometimes too vague and that it is also a matter of less satisfaction that it is possible for any member of the council to report a legal issue, since the right of citizens to protect their rights of possession must be very clear in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u20	A respectable president. I thank you for this urgent and practical indication. This certainly is one of the factors to consider in the future work of reconsidering these laws and evaluating how successful they have been. I got it. I got it. A senator to promote these views and, in fact, encourage all the others. Congress members of the work ahead of you on this bill to come up with tips that can be used to revise the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u21	Mr. President. I was just looking at this case to prepare this meeting, and I decided to say goodbye because it beats a man when he sees the home page of the Wild Committee, where there is a map of the population that has already been determined, to cover much of the country's territory and a considerable portion of the central highlands. In view of the highest. A minister earlier said about the changes in our professional life in recent losses and years, with the huge increase in tourism to view natural spheres and the mines, you'll be surprised to see where the population is located. It reminds us of the demands we have in the community on national parks in the middle of the country, that we take the step of forming a national park in the middle of the country. We took the initiative at the time to put down a Lake Earth park. For a considerable time at the council, I have had a proposal, and before me more senators from my movement, for the establishment of Hoftyk Nation. During the days, a great conference was held to ease the middle of the nation's population. There, people came and were delighted to see that they were on the contrary to the political spectrum, the traditional political lifeline that we may all be in this hall somewhere, which described support in the demand for the peace of the central highlands. I come up here because of the highest. Prime Minister mentioned this with the tourists and the change in land use. I think we need to start to develop a change of mind as we discuss how to use the resources of this country. For example, when we discuss what fees to take from those who have the opportunity to use the resources, people sometimes forget to mention that the unmoved nature, the vastness of which we have in the middle of the country is, of course, a vast resource. 80% of the tourists that come here because of nature, because they want to experience nature, part of it comes to experience unmoved nature, the largest continent of Europe, nowhere else can you sense the unique feeling of being a man in such an environment. You can see as you fly across Europe and across different squares of a country all organized and humanized by the amount of riches we have. But it is important that we take up a future policy in that matter, how exactly will we direct access to the central highlands to ensure that there will be no previous damages, how exactly will there be disappearing services around the highlands? Is it not best to do so, and I know that not all agree on this in this room but we need to get this out, by preserving the breadth, by not building roads, not by laying electrical lines or such things, by preserving the unsettled and securing them not only because of tourism or tourism which are, of course, an important economic argument but also in themselves? In effect, the evidence goes up, knowing that we are aware, that we will take this step and step forward to appease the Middle East. I think it would be a tremendous positive step to the future, a step that would be remembered by future generations as a step of vision. I think we can all agree here that we wouldn't want to be without the national parks we have today. Consider the Middle East as a resource, where governments and the Generals have a unique opportunity through the fact that they are the peoples. I was going to give, not a long talk, but just to share those views. I think we're holding there on a special occasion. We do know, however, that there are many who want to go to another structure in these areas. There are ideas about the continuum transfunctioners, as I said before, roads, lines. Therefore, it is far more important that we take these discussions and roads and appreciate the views that exist, not only the economic but also the social and environmental. That's one question I'd like to direct to the highest. Prime Minister, who may be able to answer later at the end of this discussion. I notice that in 1st grade. The law speaks of nature, and the report quotes the 1999 nature protection law. Now we know that there was a law approved here, but their arrest was delayed in 2013. They're in progress, in a review, so they're likely to be law by this council, a new nature protection law. They've been working between the highest levels. Environment Minister and what. Environment and Transport Committee. I wondered if this bill needs to be examined since the estimated new protection laws have become valid when it becomes a law, it will be a law in ours, because as I know it, the deadline is until spring or summer, in order to complete work on new nature laws, and it will probably need to revise this phrase. This is mainly a legal point, but I thought it might be appropriate to draw attention to it, considering that this is a 1999 - based witness but is likely to accept new laws prior to July 1, 2015, perhaps an explanation for this in a report somewhere but I could not figure it out. I think it's important that there's a line between what we're talking about. I reiterate my challenge that members of Parliament agree to discuss the possibility of the peace of the central highlands and national parks in the central highlands.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u22	A respectable president. I think it's possible to finish at the time you give in advance. Thank you. A senator for the speech. We share the viewpoints it described regarding the importance of protecting the highlands where possible and its importance to the nation in various ways. About the question as a boy. A senator at the end is the answer to it simple; it is merely a matter of referring to the definition existing in nature protection of what is meant by the word nature... what word was it? The nature of the natural images, so the definition of a concept that does not change by change in nature protection laws, is only being used in the present definition. [[Take it up in: Videos.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u23	Mr. President. I hear the highest. Prime Minister has an understanding of the viewpoints I presented here on the peace of the central highlands. I think it is urgent that we use the time we have at the council to discuss these matters at the same time as we see this growing tourist activity, and it is very important that we discuss them from the view of the future. I'm stressing that this may not have an impact, but if there are other definitions in the laws that go into effect after the cooperation of the Environment and Transport Committee and the Supreme Agents. The secretary of the environment makes it important for me to be aware that it may have an effect, but most of all, it is about terms and definitions.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u24	A respectable president. Yeah, I'll be back with what. Senator. Regarding the central highlands, I believe that there is no major disagreement among the politicians or the people in general on how important it is to protect it as far as possible. Of course, man's approach to nature and its passage to enjoy nature or to use it in various ways will always have some bearing on nature. But I don't think there's much political controversy over the importance of unnoring Icelandic languages and the importance of protecting them where possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u25	Mr. President. I welcome the highest words. Minister. However, it is clear that energy companies are very interested in adding activations in the central highlands. I think there's 15 ideas on the fortresses in the middle of the country, so I'll be happy if I do. The prime minister estimates that there is not much political disagreement on the central highland peace and national parks. Then I'm going to take a look at the highest. The prime minister that my ally in this matter until then reveals, for it is clear that many people are interested in using the central highlands to do other work than in protecting it. I think, as I told you before, we have an enormous resource there, and it's our best use for the future by peaceing it. It is the best use of the untarnished territory we have.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u26	A respectable president. I recommend here for bill to legalize health insurance legislation, No. 112/2008, with subsequent changes, and administrations, No. 93/1994, with subsequent changes. This is the main objective of implementing the European Parliament and Council Directive from 9 March 2011 on the patient's right to cross-border health services and the Commission's 20 December 2012 directive on measures to facilitate the recognition of prescriptions published in other Member States. At the same time, the induction is suggested to make changes in the law on regulations 23 and 33. The law will be given a new chapter under the term "National Health Service, " which will include all the laws on the rights of individuals to seek foreign health services. In addition, the bill suggests that a single definition will be added to the definition of the law, which is the definition of the term "Internationally Acceptable Medicine', which, if necessary, has to be explained more accurately. The bill includes changes in the provision of health insurance to provide increased rights to attend health care in the European Economic Area. The target of the directive is to provide access to a secure national quality of health services, provide free flow of patients within the Union, and contribute to the co-operation of health care between Member States. However, this does not affect the definitive authority of the countries to organize and provide health care. By the implementation of the Directive on the rights of patients for national health care, health insurance is authorized to choose to seek health care for other EEA countries and to obtain this cost paid by Iceland's Medical Insurance as if the services had been given in this country. The requirement for reimbursement is that the same type of service is part of the service that health insurance is involved in paying in this country. The current requirement for the public and for the undisputed condition that always be applied for a precontracted agreement to attend service to another EEA was considered a barrier to free flow of service within the Union, and by the phrase of the requested directive, they were excluded. However, it is permitted to require a pre-contract agreement in certain cases and to suggest that all the sources given become new. Therefore, it is suggested that pre-compatibilities be required when health care especially requires planning to ensure quality or control at costs and to ensure that the best use of capital, equipment and human resources is used and consists of hospitalisation for at least one night or use in special and costly equipment or facilities. In addition, pre-contract agreements should be applied when therapy carries a risk for the patient or the general public and where there is reason to doubt the quality and safety of the service provided. In addition, it is suggested that prior consent be denied when it is possible to provide health care in this country within the time range to be medically justified if the patient's current medical condition is taken into account and the more likely progression of the disease. Furthermore, it is suggested that a minister be granted permission to limit the reimbursement of costs on the basis of important public interests. The bill suggests that there will be a change in pharmaceutical laws to implement the Commission's Commission Directive on measures to facilitate the recognition of prescriptions produced in other Member States. With this change, a prescription will no longer consist of a valid prescription for the physician, dentist or veterinary surgeon who have a valid medical license in this country, but will administer prescriptions by physicians, dentists and veterinary surgeons with a validated medical license in the EEA Member States, although it will always be applicable to the prescribed and dispensing policies. The current bill stipulates the right health care provider to choose to seek health care for another country in the European Economic Area, where health insurance is made to reimburse costs, as if it were a similar service to the health insurance services involved in paying in this country. There is little need for individuals to travel abroad to seek medical care in the European Economic Area, and it is thought to continue, especially in peripheral areas such as Iceland. A large proportion of patients within the EEA Convention receive health care in their own country and prefer to do so. However, in special circumstances it may be more convenient for individuals to cross-border service, especially for areas close to the border of shorter lengths to cross-border service than in relevant Member States. The nature of the matter, according to the country, is not the case. There may also be situations in which individuals choose to be close to their partners and therefore want to attend services in another EEA country. Such cases may arise in this country, and it may be expected that individuals who have moved here from other Member States might consider attending services in their native home country near their relatives. However, the extent to which this might become is unclear. A respectable president. I have now explained the basic principles of the bill, but the changes proposed here are legal benefits for health care professionals who intend to attend medical services to other countries in the European Economic Area. So I'll allow myself to suggest that the bill be after the 1st. Refer to the welfare committee and to the 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u27	V.E.G. President. I've been trying to understand this bill, and even if it's not very big or giving up a lot of weight, I'm having a bit of a hard time seeing how it's going to work if the laws given here were to take effect. V.E.G. In his background, a minister said that the government's policy is to use all the authority we have in advance, and he also said that it is not necessary for individuals to go from country to country to search for health care and to believe that it will continue. What I'm trying to do is, how is this going to work, if we put this in the law, into the praxize for the user? I can't quite imagine it when I read the bill. What does that really mean? For example, can I knock on a door in Denmark and have a medical service there, and then come home and apply for a reimbursement to the State? I can't quite imagine when I need an advance consent and what the consequences will be for the person who goes to the health care provider if he has not yet received this precipitous agreement. Could be the top. A minister further explained how it actually works toward the general public health care?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u28	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. There are different rules about how the North countries have brought this in, for example. Denmark - we are creating the same system as it is. Norway has it completely open, so individuals can simply cross borders and attend services. We took the option of installing this pre-communication requirement for the simple reason that we do not realize in what kind of amount this might be in the country and as indicated, both in the bill and in the cost of food, we are running a little blind with the use of this provision. It is unmistakably, however, that the right person or person is being strengthened to travel from country to country and to enjoy health care, but with the conditions outlined in the bill, which are actually defined in very gross terms, in the 5th chapter of Deuteronomy. par., the key aspects of pre-contraction that need to be met. I then assume that the central organisation involved - both for Icelanders, who may wish to cross-border services or other factors that will be considered valid, and for foreigners who live abroad who want to serve here - they need to prepare the information for Iceland's Medical Insurance that will handle performance and management.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u29	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. And, yes, I think I'm a little closer on how this is going to work. V.E.G. A minister came in part of what I was going to use my second answer to ask in. It's about the information for which the public would be able to use this system and would be considered as an advantage. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister only more deeply about whether he or she feels that it is not very important that in order for this induction to work that should be given very clear information so that the public and those who take it in use know what they are doing. This is new, and I would likely think that many people will look at these curious eyes to see if it is something they could benefit from, whether there is something very serious about when people need to be applied for in advance, what they can expect, and whether something like that will be considered.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u30	A respectable president. Yes, as with the bill at the expense of the bill, it is assumed that the cost next year may be about 39.5 million. K. which, in this way, be sure, in terms of staff management that two employees of Iceland's Medical Insurance and one place value at the National Medical Center, and then part of the cost at the Land Hospital, are expected to work on the bill if it had to be legal. As noted in that article, it is quite clear that there is a regulations to be made in which this information supply is being carried out, how to answer requests for an advance agreement. It is clear that the surgeon general also needs certain quality and safety requirements, etc. It's an early job, so we're not getting anywhere with how we might work with the law column. We simply wanted to see how this case was done here at the council before we fully started the regulations.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u31	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for the story. I have to say something. paritaprevir Árnadóttir Þóra Auradóttir that, despite the fact that I've passed the bill, I find it a little difficult to figure out exactly what it is, and I feel that there's a bit of a complicated text to cover. But what I see quickly and think is positive is that they are individuals - because in recent years, the world is reduced and people are moving around, both here and our people are going abroad - if I understand the bill correctly, it's a good thing that they individuals can follow certain rules and get health services close to their clients, if I get this right. There is one thing I can see about having consulted certain parties in the final meters of the bill's construction, such as the organization of single children and other members, some organization. Does this bill apply to individuals with certain diseases who need medical services outside the country that are not given at home? Because we have had a little question about it: How do subsidies apply to those who carry diseases, who do not need medical treatment in Iceland? Are there other systems for those individuals?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u32	A respectable president. Thanks for the inquiry. I share the senator's opinion that this is a very elaborate text and is really a bit exotic to look into it because we have simply been in our closed system and, in fact, had relatively little to do with this. But because of questions. For each of these matters, see page 5 of the above article. 6 In the report with the bill, the changes the bill calls to turn only to the right health insurance to pursue cross-border service to another EEA and request a reimbursement of costs solely according to the cost paid for a comparable national service. This involves, in effect, that the bill as it is designed here gives only license to restore health insurance to the services that are already paid in this country. The onset of the episode. A senator mentioned the same procedure as we do so, i.e. through a cruise board that decides on the aspects of health care. A senator asked about.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u33	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. A health minister for the answers. I'm not gonna keep this far, I just want to thank you. It will be interesting and beneficial to deal with the bill on the Senate welfare committee where I sit.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u34	V.E.G. President. This bill isn't big, but it means we're going on new tracks. We are increasing the access of Icelanders to health services in Europe and can be said to have their origins in that many European countries have borders on one another. People are being helped to seek medical help in their neighboring countries. Iceland, who is not sitting at the table when there is no such directives and regulations written and therefore had a limited impact on this matter as a convention and an independent party now serving here on our table and it's somewhat fanciful. We officers, and it's not our intention to conceal that we are very much in favor of the international cooperation, the taking of national sovereignty and national independence as seriously as we would have liked to have more to say what we have to produce here in Icelandic law and in what ways. I'm gonna say it, chief. Mr President, at this moment, I am deeply concerned about the case. We have a health system that has been in surgery, not just after a crash, but actually since the turn of the century. Everything's on fire in strike trials. At present, the Landspians are nearly inaccessible within a year because of the number of employees'labors and waiting lists being extended and the need for health care is increasing, and then we are opening on those ports. Yes, it is good for people to be able to go to health care if they do not get it here. But who will be able to attend such a ministry? It's not the people who are now making the demand for about 300 yous. K. Minimum wage, because it does not get the fliers paid to attend this service abroad. But it can, if there is a chance of attending extraneous services, get back what the cost would have been in this country. I'm actually better to say, in view of the recent history of the Council as EEA case--this is not the kind of scheme to make a case, now there has been no such sharp reversals in various other matters, but obviously there is a great deal to it, and we are giving very extensive regulations to the minister to shape the rules of these changing priorities. We on a welfare committee will be very comfortable with it. In the case of a minister, it was shown that the way to introduce this has not been molded. It is also that by agreeing with this, we are enforcing that authority to the minister of Regulation how the people of the land can apply themselves to this service. In fact, I came up here to express that in view of the conditions that exist in the health system, in view of the lower income level, and in view of the hard times both within the medical system and especially outside, I feel very questionable to share in providing so broad information to a health minister who is not prepared to tell us at this moment where he intends to take this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u35	A respectable president. I recommend here for bill to correct animal import law, No. 54/1990, with subsequent changes on deck. 1106, 643rd. The growth of beef production and the position of the human flesh stock in this country has been discussed in recent years. There are several reports on the potentiation of beef production and the status of the live organism and the risk analysis of the genetic import preparation. There is also a report on possible measures to reduce the risk of transmission of infectious diseases to the country for the import of genetics. It has been of interest among farmers for some time to import DNA to improve the stock of objects of flesh. In accordance with current laws, it is forbidden to move to the country's DNA. A minister can depart from the ban that the father of a chief animal physician is following the instructions in the Member State on the import of the animal, No. 54/190, and regulations in accordance with these regulations. In contrast, animals that have grown from imported genetics must never be transported from a disease - control center. This bill, written in the employment and innovation department, is suggested to simplify the import of the individual cattle and to allow the Food Agency to allow the import of the genetic material to produce certain conditions. It is then suggested that metal items of the human flesh be transferred from an imported unit to a available license and, according to the conditions of a chief animal surgeon, which have grown from an insulation station. Thus, efforts are made to promote genetic progress in the local bullies. In November 2014, a team was appointed to recommend that the rules for the import of genes for human partners and the disposal of isolation centres are required. The team is appointed representatives of the Food Agency, the National Association of Cows and Research Centres for Iceland's University of Pathology at Köldum. Rules made on April 1, 2000, returned to the group. which are now under investigation in the Ministry. Then, in the bill it is also assumed that a clear legal license to be paid for monitoring according to the rules of the law No. 54/1990 on the import of the animal. This indicates that the current directive does not guarantee access to the Food Agency for collection for monitoring, management and identification of documents on import according to the requirements of the Treaty. In recent years the production of domestic beef has not been another market demand. In 2005, the total production of beef was 3,540 tons, while the consumption was within the country about 3,550 tons. In 2013 the production was 4,082 tons, while the consumption was 4,338 tons. The first six months of 2014 were 1700 tons of beef production and the import of beef during the same period was about 540 tons. Therefore, there is a trend toward a continuing shortage of Icelandic beef on the domestic market. The objective of the bill is, then, to create a facility to import new genes in order to promote the human organism and to increase the production of beef in this country for the benefit of manufacturers and consumers. If this bill becomes legalized, it will be possible to move to the land the DNA of items of flesh, and it will be permitted to meet certain criteria for transporting items of flesh that have grown from an imported DNA facility. A diet clinic and a head veterinarian are well equipped to handle the tasks entrusted to them according to the bill. Similar rules apply to the import of the deepest pig seed and therefore there has been experience in treating similar situations with the Agency. It is important to note that the risk of transmission of the virus, and to set the requirements for the import of the import, selection, and isolation, as well as that of the head of the veterinarian, is aimed at minimising the risk of developing disease to the land of genetic import. A respectable president. I have now explained the key points of the bill and the reasons for its contribution and suggest that it be referred to a 2nd cover. ... andwhat. Business committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u36	A respectable president. I'm glad this case's taken care of. If I understand correctly, these last few years will be a requirement for farmers to accept if not decades are allowed to import DNA in order to increase production, as is possible. I'd like to ask a minister because I really miss how little is made by veal meat in Iceland. I think it's a market for it, but if the demand for beef is very high, you might not kill the calves, but you should move in veal to meet the market. It is a question of whether increased production will result in increasing the sales of veal that I miss in Icelandic foodflakes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u37	A respectable president. I really hope that, with the growth of cattle farms, there is an ever - increasing potential for meeting the needs of the market. About the veal I expect to see. A senator is referring to, i.e. The white meat of calves has had a view of that. In fact, the calves in the vast world have been prevented from accessing milk and corn other than milk in order to keep the pigment in the meat unchangeable. It's a little conflicting with the animal traffic and moral values we in the Western world have established for us in the past. Nevertheless, there is a possibility of producing veal meat, although in situations where meat will not be as white as one recognizes a cookbook from the French kitchen, for example; it would then be done under normal animal traffic and moral standards. That's right. That's right. A senator says farmers have asked for this for a very long time. There are three main members of the human family in the country. Since it has been a long time since DNA was introduced, it has become a bit of a problem to produce them. The genetic material has become more than 20 years old, the oldest, even older. As a result, the progress that has been made in the source of local farmers has not been used to promote its production of meat, and with this bill we are responding to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u38	V.E.G. President. I come up here because this bill raises some really big questions. After thinking about it for a long time, I still feel that it is difficult to do so, even though it has been tried to make a good impression on them. First, I want to express my joy that this is merely a bulldozer, and I want to make it clear that it refers only to their genetics, so I will try to speak only from it but not to another bill that was mentioned as the subject of milking. I want to point the top. A minister should stress that he needs to set requirements for the genetic and animal testing that have grown from the imported DNA of isolation time and health status and the equipment of the farms who wish to import the DNA. Also, an immigrant carries the actual cost of extra checkup. It says that the matter can be brought up by a local interest organization. What about those who are not involved in a business organization? This isn't part of the team for recent action. What about those outside the organization? The changes and new development of farms need to be taken into account. A group of workers working on the expansion of beef production here said that there was considerable potential for furthering beef production on the land and the import of a new DNA from a member of the human body there was a key to this. A group appointed to provide suggestions on the growth of beef production said that a thorough risk analysis needed to be performed. The analysis concluded that there was a low probability of transmission of infectious agents to this land. Every time you put your penis on your toes like this and say that there's little chance of doing this, there's still a lot like this, and there's a lot like that that that scares me. All imports can be associated with risks and infectious agents can be obtained by genetics. The spread of infectious agents to the land could lead to serious consequences. It was also the conclusion of the group that carried the risk assessment. The bill declares that infectious agents that are being spread here could have great consequences for local agriculture, but according to the declaration, the unique status of Icelandic livestock and their good disease status. This bill suggests that the gene import process of the cattle will be simplified. I'm very afraid of it if the simple should include shortening the process to which the DNA is to pass, i.e. Research, waiting, and so on. However, while beef production in Iceland is largely practiced as a side section of milk production, the situation in human beef production in Iceland is just not good today, and there is nothing merely a shortage of genes. The situation today is, if we just talk right out, that I know that farmers are taking fertilses when they are born, leading them out of a butterfly wall and shooting them and growling, because it's cheaper than raising them. The condition of beef production does not really improve, although DNA does come. We still have the same system. Not long ago, the domestic production of milk was said to not meet market demand, and the bill speaks of the production of domestic beef without a market demand. You'll see how familiar those sentences are. However, there is no improvement in the environment in the bill. Farming will be the same as production does not pay. We, who produce beef, still have to pay much for food on the cattle, still get the same price for the weight. Therefore, I feel that this bill is a primary factor in the use of only those who go to beef production but that it gives them larger pieces of DNA. When milk production was not demand, the environment was added to us. As we were making milk, we started getting more money for production, we were able to produce more. But I haven't found out that this side is fulfilled in the bill, because it's the same thing. Throughout the bill it is repeated that the risk of genetic transmission is critical, but it is also called the need to simplify the gene import process and aim for real cost so that studies cannot be done out of focus. So I say, if I could see in the bill some improvement in the manufacturer's situation so that they could see the advantage of going into beef production, I could partly stand by it, although I'd rather stand by with diseaseless agriculture on the land and not increase the risk there. I believe more is needed in this case to get good results and to increase production of beef. To me, the bill carries a particular risk for farm stock disease status and I don't think it's a great incentive to go into beef production. It is, then, a question of whether those who are now with a bull and struggling to keep some beef production are those who should then receive the DNA and try to build up.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u39	Mr. President. I'm one of those who supports this bill, and I've had a place of word before. Agricultural minister at the same time as it's being tore up. As much as I'd love to talk with a boy with words and passion. A senator could not reach any other conclusion than to guess that it was an opposing bill. I'd like to ask you what. To put it simply: Is it not a unity of our own good enterprise on this subject? At any rate, I'd like to inform you here that in the Navy's agricultural wing, there's a lot of support for the Senate case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u40	Mr. President. It's good to be a top dog. Agricultural minister is supported in that direction. As a young farmer, a dairy producer, and a beef producer, I would like to say that my attitude is a little on the same line as that of a nice man Dýrmundsson Ólafur Animalmundsson, whether the import of milk or carnivorous production is subject to high requirements for disease prevention, the necessary risk of disease. I think they're way too relaxed in this bill, so maybe I'm more calling for reform, and then there's an environment for beef producers like I came in earlier. The environment is completely unchanged. We still receive the same products, there is no greater support for the article, so I may even be calling for reforms on the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u41	Mr. President. I just agree with what. A senator, as well as Ólafur Dýrmundsson, has to be very careful about this portal when he is contemplating the import of animals, even if it is embryos. Yet, I believe that all scientific evidence goes so that it can be made so that the next guaranteed, and that is the basis of this bill. On the other hand, I'd like to make sure. A senator says that every time it's the highest. Agricultural minister gives me good business, and I'm behind him tight. The only thing I have to do with this case is to get to the top. The Minister should not have moved this before. But you can understand why. A senator has the impression that it is the highest. Aggressor does not show sufficient caution on this bill and on the other hand. A senator will then support it only if it becomes a significant improvement in the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u42	V.E.G. President. I have to be convincing in this matter. Like I came in earlier - and what. A senator was saying that it might be possible to prevent this today by research and technology. I have often asked, " Is the reason why the Icelandic sheep farmers don't call for the import of DNA is because they've gone through the shock, they've already had to deal with the diseases that became due to the import and whether we're supposed to relax more? ' I believe, therefore, that I have the right to call for, when this goes to the committee, that the bill will change, and I'll take care of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u43	Mr. President. We're here to discuss a bill to legalize the animal import law, i.e. DNA of particles of flesh I'm gonna say it like hell. paritaprevir I was impressed by Skarphéðinsson's speech. paritaprevir Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir here, a young farmer who knows what she's doing and knows about these matters. I think there's good reason to note her words that we must not let down too much in the care of the imported cattle genetics, and we need to make a lot of demands. I'm one of the many people who want to protect Icelandic cows and Icelandic cows, but as we have seen, this is not the DNA of dairy cows. I still think there is a danger, as one good veterinarian told me, that free love could be somewhere in the field, and then some things could happen, even on the West. [[The point is, maybe on the West.]] There are things to be careful about the risk of disease and other factors. I found what was presented in the Sermon on the Mount interesting. paritaprevir Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir, that there was really not a great incentive for growing beef production in this bill. So I'll finish whatever turns on the Icelandic cow, probably one of the few or even one sex in the world that has remained unattracted or not mixed with other people for so long, from the age of land. So I think it's very important that we protect them from the diversity and uniqueness of the Icelandic cow sex. V.E.G. The minister entered the beginning of this case, that there had been a very long discussion within the class. It is stated in comments to this bill, to import this DNA, that by 2011 the current marine export and agricultural minister has appointed a group for beef production and the position of the human flesh in Iceland. The results of the group were that there were considerable possibilities for the development of beef production in this country and for the import of a new DNA from human components there were key factors. In the meantime, a professional and innovation minister continues to order a team of workers to review this report and suggest measures to promote beef production and to strengthen the position of the European member of the flesh. The group returned a report in 2013. The results were consistent with the results of the first group on the status of the bullander population, the inability to improve the breeds of human flesh used for breeding and a single hybrid culture without re-instruction. A thorough risk analysis on the import of the gene was suggested. The Council asked the Food Agency to perform a risk analysis on the import of the hereditary components of the human body. The analysis concluded that there was a low probability of transmission of infectious agents to this country for the import of DNA from Norway. It also stated that all imports were associated with risks - that is, what has been mentioned here - and that infectious agents could be transmitted by genes. The risk analysis points out that if infectious agents enter the country, the consequences can certainly be great. The disease status of the local population is very good, and many diseases endemic in neighboring countries are not known here. I think it's a very important agricultural sector and to minimise the risk of transmission of infectious diseases to the country of the import of genetics. I'm going to include only a summary of the risk assessment report made by the Food Agency for the import of the bull seed. It says that a summary of the data for 16 transmissible agents was included in this risk assessment. The conclusions of the probability of carrying semen from Geno Global Ltd. in Norway are the same for all of them. It's considered a low probability. As a result of the spread of infectious agents to this land, two of the infectious agents were considered to have little consequence, three of them a great number of several and eleven. Thus, at the final risk assessment, five of the low risk groups were classified, 11 moderate and non-high. At the end of this risk assessment, it is mentioned that most of the employees of the Food Agency were employed and reviewed by many in the Agency. It is recommended that this report be sent to stakeholders and experts for information, e.g. At the University of Iceland's Laboratory at Köldum. I think there's a great deal of caution to be taken. As I understand this, there is a considerable compromise in terms of the isolation of animals, as was the case in Piglet. In comments to the bill, by permission of the President, we say: However, it must never be moved from a disease - safety center. I get it so it's like it's today, but there's some change in it. It also says, by permission of the President: It is the responsibility to transfer these animals from a solitary station to a controlled animal surgeon when it is guaranteed that they are free of disease. The import of pig's genetics, however, must never be moved from a solitary station. - Then it's on its own. It says that this bill aims to create a facility for the transfer of new genes to strengthen the human embryo and to increase the production of beef, which is certainly needed, I can totally agree. It is only natural that this article has the potential to grow and expand and serve domestically, but we still need to exercise caution in this matter. Of course, the committee will review the matter and call out experts in this field and send out a plea for review. I know they'll take care of it. It is not as simple as it appears at first glance. paritaprevir Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir. That's why we're on the job committee, the legislature board, adding what comes in here into the form of a prime projector. I believe we should carefully examine whether this needs to be squeezed in any way to ensure that there is a minimal risk of disease following the import of this DNA product. The bill also shows that there is a clear and fixed deposit for the import control of the Agency with living animals and genes, as well as a provision for document review and other enterprises for the import. There's something right there. Otherwise, it would be nice to hear from a minister whether there is any danger that by importing these genes, there will be some mixture with the Icelandic cowkind. I would like to hear more about it and what alarm bells are calling on this case or whether a minister feels that there is no need to worry about disease, that the risk is negligible, and that is just to promote beef production in the country in order to continue the demand for markets. I'll do this for a while, and I'll look forward to discussing the matter on a job committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u44	V.E.G. President. As I said before, I don't see any motivation in this bill. Hv. A senator entered the free love, I mean, of course, can get mixed up. What cows are to carry the DNA? The powder hasn't gotten that big yet. What rules should be applied to cows that are not qualified for milking and may be used for this? The rules now concerning the equipment of bullies have been tightened. It is a question of whether those mentioned in this article are prepared to work in harmony with them and are in a position to do so. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether she sees any incentive in this bill, whether it is being found to improve the availability of innovation in the article and in the individual facilities of the article or whether or not. A candidate believes that the bill weakens the state of Icelandic agriculture to import other animals and even agrienvironmental products.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u45	Yes, it is a question of whether this could lead to greater pressure on the import of living animals. I know that me and what. A senator shares that view. We're against that kind of import. I don't think it's a question that pressure can increase in that subject. There is a particular gap being opened in these substances. In fact, importing Norwegian embryos to cowkind can also lead to the discussion here in 2001. I'm a little mixed up in this case, what that really means. I'm not an expert in this field, so I can't tell if it's possible to see in the bill that it will strengthen your recent development in this article. Of course, you would like something to do it. I don't think the agricultural system is, unfortunately, as if our fishing system were too shut down and saying good - bye, and it's a real problem for young people to have a good time in this article. Anyone who knows how difficult it is for young people to get started in this article, even though they are fully interested and educated in agriculture because they are so costly. I'd like to hear some attitude. A senator, if she comes up again, how would she see that the article could be enhanced and that new farming could be increased? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u46	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answers. This is exactly what I think is the flaw of this bill. We're just talking pure and direct about semen, we're not talking about farmers being able to keep up their braking around in the middle of nowhere and give them some special rolls and grouses. We're talking about this supposed to be some big promotion of beef production in the country. Besides, I don't see that it is making it easier for new ones to get involved in this article, since those who have come to the evaluations quoted in the bill are already the ones mentioned in this article and already have a better advantage. I believe this bill would also have had to talk to younger ones and hear their viewpoints, how they visualize it. Power stations, we can't influence them directly here at the High Council. I believe too many still remains. I believe some of the support in the bill is that I have to maintain my convictions in this subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u47	Mr. President. I'm worth what. A senator for his convictions. I think it's good for all of us to do it at all times. Of course, it would be very interesting to get the comments of young farmers on this very matter and to hear their attitude toward what they say about how you could do, as it sounds to me at the mouth. A senator, something more than merely importing this DNA from the Norwegian bullies, it takes so many other things so that the branch can grow within the country, as I hear it. Senator. This may lead to strengthening and strengthening those who are strong in this article, but those who need support and who would have needed more than this alone may be at the same site and may not have much opportunity to promote and increase their production. It is sobering to consider whether this bill is a bit tailored to those who are strong in this article and not to those who are interested in growing up in the article and needing more. I am prepared to take this side of the case for discussion on the job committee with the people we get to discuss it, who may at first appear to be a simple procedure, but on many sides and are far from simple.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u48	Mr. President. At last, the Allied Parliament brings up a serious matter. I think it's a matter of great importance to agriculture. This is a bill that I believe is a success of Icelandic agriculture. I am one of those who want to strengthen him, and perhaps at times I have been reproved by my party for being far too loyal to him. However, at the beginning of my speech, I would like to make clear that I am in the same line as the one. Housewives, my companions, who have spoken in this regard that the import of living domestic animals is not at all exhilarating. I'm against him. If we look at the story, we can see that here farm animals have been more and less connected with the outside world since the conquest of the land. There are many consequences, including. that they have not been exposed to various types of bacteria and viruses that have developed resistance and resistance to strains in other countries. As a result, Icelandic pets are weaker when they receive some form of infectious material. We've seen of the story, as were remembered here by the wind. paritaprevir Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir. The sheepfold has not been part of it over the past few centuries. That's why I want to make it perfectly clear that when I had a prelude to Iceland's applying for membership in the European Union, it was totally set by our side as it stood that there was drawn a line into the sand. It was clearly stated on our part that the import of living animals would not be accepted. And just to have said that and recall here, it is true that in March 2013, I recall a statement by the European Commission after our meeting in Brussels that he respected this view and thought it was normal. This does not mean that at the bargaining table, the European Union would not provide such a requirement, but it does indicate that there is an understanding of these substances, including those abroad, including those who are looking to Iceland. Experts there realize that the Icelandic species are different, and they have not built up through centuries the resistance of farm animals in other countries. This is what I would like to say, however, that it is contrary to what is suggested here. The bill goes on to allow the sperm import and DNA that I interpret as an embryo. Today, we have technology that can ensure that large amounts of infection can be removed, but perhaps not entirely from some form of infection. But I, like many other good technical instruments, believe that such experts should be listened to. And if it is so that both farmers and the health - care professionals of the Department of Agriculture will conclude that the bill will create a channel that will keep this danger from the door, I am ready to accept that argument. I notice, as if in any case, that the bill reported that among those who were sought for reviews, the National University of Iceland was Turuna University of Köldum. For more information, see chapter 10 of the book What Does the Bible Really Teach? 4 The bill does not say that the ideal agency has returned a review. I'll allow the unannounced case to assume that Iceland's Test University didn't see any reason to comment on the bill, but I might be wrong. I think it's the highest. A minister would not have appealed to report any negative report there. There have been some arguments against the bill. I agree with what. paritaprevir Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir that humans must walk safely through these materials. This may be true in the case of the issue. A pro board knocking defenses stuck in a mess. The bill treats them lightly and is short. It is, in effect, protected by the use of food agencies, the head of an animal doctor, allowing the import license to be granted in the order to which it is yet to be set. I don't think there's anything wrong with that. Councilmen on this subject wish to see some kind of creation under that rule. Perhaps it will destroy someone's doubts. Also, in this regard it is assumed that this import will be carried out in exactly the same way as in the case of pigs. I remember that not a long time ago, a few years ago, we adopted in this hall a law that allowed this exactly for pig farms. Of course, a short period of time has passed, and perhaps it is not possible to say that there is insufficient experience, but there is a consideration of the matter, and I don't think it would have resulted in any major harm. So, at the same time, I would like to reject the reasoning that was presented, at least by reason. paritaprevir Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir, in some way weakened the defense of importing foreign food from foreign meat. Why do I say that? Because he's already there. For example, the import of beef is increasing. And why is that? This is because there is an increasing difference between production and consumption, although as reported in the bill report, both production and consumption of beef have increased, but the consumption has increased more rapidly. As a result, in the first half of the last two years, men moved in in more easily, if I recall correctly, 600 tons of foreign beef. Therefore, this argument can be turned around and it can be said that by promoting the European production of beef in this way, the import of such meat is more likely to be stopped. I make it clear that I make a clear distinction between the import of living animals and the import of meat, so it is perfectly clear. So I don't think this is a strong argument. The other arguments mentioned are somewhat distant from the subject or the bill. It involves not seeing anything that will strengthen new ones in this article, and of course it is true. But I think it's hard, and I'm having trouble because they both have a bad time. In view of the fact that the market is calling for more, elders mentioned that this could possibly strengthen the position of the existing and strong ones on the market. It is, of course, the possession of the import. The market is asking for more meat, and we know that people want Icelandic beef, so they see how sales numbers have grown. Therefore, I believe that although these foundations will be plunged into the production of beef in Iceland, there is no way to say that the position of those who may not be strong on the market is being reduced. They can sell their production anyway while the demand is so high, but this may well be the case. A senator sees them in a mirage of a future where production is more than the consumption in Iceland. Mr. President. I want them to believe in the highest. A president for me to wait for such a time because I believe that in the future, if Icelandic agriculture has a way of managing its affairs, both products and markets, it will be possible to sell Icelandic beef at a good price on foreign markets. Meat produced by the manufacturing process of land, which at worst can be called eco-friendly, and some would say it's a great deal close to organic farming, although I know, of course, that the definition of Icelandic beef cannot be applied. On that basis I believe that there will be a clear basis for exporting Icelandic beef. And those who have doubts about it should only talk to the excellent pioneers who have been trying to market Icelandic meat on foreign markets with excellent results. It is clear that their opinion is that it would not be difficult to sell Icelandic beef produced by these wonderful conditions in Iceland in foreign markets. To this I believe, at the same time as I agree with those who have participated in the past, that we should be careful. Hv. Council members of the National Committee are required to review this matter thoroughly, and I think it will be considered as a further explanation of the changes made by the Committee as to the rules. However, the two evidences that have been specifically presented against this do not seem to me that the bill can be accepted in some way to weaken the status of existing farmers or of those who do not have the situation. A senator felt that future production of human pleasures would be required. And yet, I think it can be reasoned that this is a risk to prevent import of the food of this kind. Now, in my speech, it has been said that I do not agree. paritaprevir María Sigmundsdóttir on that subject, but if I look at this from the point of view of the reasoning that she sorely fatigued here, I still think it lacks the sound for that argument.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u49	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for his speech. He said that I had reasoned that this would be Iceland's weak position in import. So I wonder why. paritaprevir My daughter's Magnúsdóttir Rafney Islands, Michael, felt that this would weaken my presentation, even though I have no more to talk about. Also, I was talking about the fact that there was nothing new about this, and I was talking about the fact that I think that the main evidence that we should go to geneticization is that we are building beef production. But I also don't see an environment for those who are in the article today, I don't see any motivation. It also needs to be a catalyst, it's not enough just to come by genetics, for, as the situation is today, I don't know which way. A senator heard it here earlier, and they're getting rid of cattle at birth, whether they shoot them behind the river or send them to the slaughterhouse, because it doesn't pay to bring them up. That's what I'm talking about. Although we're bringing DNA to the country, I don't see that this is the catalyst to the increased production of beef that the bill is largely based on the process of starting. Then I also have another question, saying, Is the slaughterhouses in this country equipped to receive that increase, for today it is difficult to get bulls into slaughter? You're gonna have to wait with a herd at home on your farm. So the question is: Are we in position for the great increase we believe will be?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u50	Mr. President. Hv. A senator should now read the questions I have asked to the highest degree. Agricultural minister for changing the operation of the slaughter and construction of cattle in Iceland. I agree that the production of beef is far behind the sheep's flocks. We have seen how the sheep'flocks have reorganized in the last 15◯20 years, and the production of beef is going to go through the same evolutionary process. So I believe that behind this bill and the wishes behind it, not only does it come out of the highest part of the world. Minister, rather directly from a group that farmers took the initiative to set up the staff at their time, shows that farmers feel that there are possibilities and opportunities. And those interested in taking advantage of these new opportunities that the bill opens will likely have prepared themselves, made themselves seaworthy, and not attack on the cruise unless they have the means to do so. I don't completely agree with what. A senator, although I understand what she's saying, must be the motivation in the bill to justify its approval. The bill is created by setting up a special group that is to be directly involved in finding suggestions for promoting cattle farming, and this is one of them. The group would have been the only one to exist because farmers themselves wanted it. There are many farmers who feel that there are opportunities in the future to make beef. I'm among those who believe that Iceland should produce as much food as possible and that it will become a growing market for it in the future. [[The president calls.]] I count, too, and have things for myself in it, e.g. OECD reports that Icelandic beef can be completely competitive at the price of beef from other countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u51	V.E.G. President. I am fully aware of where these ideas are coming from, so I have taken this conversation as far as I can remember. I agree with what. A senator I believe is a possibility for Icelandic beef. But although these aren't the only two points I've listed as a failure on the bill, I consider number one, two and three to be the relax that's being made on hand and the loose we're giving to the import and protection of our farms. But I still think it's important and I have to hold hands, that it's not enough to be here with a new sperm to start producing completely if the system itself is not prepared. I'm in a position to raise cattle, but with increasing demands, I have to take this into account, and I also need to see them some potential benefit from being raised. So I think if I'm going to be using a bill that's about the import of any pieces of flesh, I'll also have to see some changes to the job, because she started calling for this for years, many years ago, as the evidence shows at the time of the first investigation. So it's a question: Are we too far, so can't you take into account the problems I'm talking about? Had we not had to take them from the beginning?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u52	Mr. President. Some farmers will see specific opportunities in going where the bill opens. In case of a moment. A senator who is a young farmer does not see the benefits of following that path to himself, but the reality is simply that it does not leave it. But others will if they believe that in it it, they will. And should we not just let them decide? The other thing I wanted to make a note of at what? A senator says that she is not ready to accept the lax protection found in the bill. Now, I've said before that I can accept that in the bill, you might be able to strike in a trap in what way to make rules, they didn't come out, but it's said that you should give the license to meet specific criteria. And if it is found that the requirements are not met, a chief veterinarian can remove the gene, cancel the license, or if animals are available because of this import, he may order that they be laid down. At this point, I may feel that it must go so far as to claim to the highest degree. Agricultural minister is relaxing. I don't read it out of the bill, but repeat what I said earlier that maybe it could be clearer, and then it will. A senator and others on this subject will likely see to it on the committee. It may be the prime fault of the bill that it is not clear enough about the coming rules, because this is a basic point for a lot of people, which I understand well that need to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u53	Mr. President. I'd like to say, in the beginning, I'd like to celebrate a forward bill. Agricultural minister. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that I have cows that could benefit from this matter. And as a result of a community discussion and even in the committees of the Generals for proper and incompetent people, I wanted to draw attention to it so that no one could doubt it. [[Up front.]] I'll refer them to a topic debate. paritaprevir Páll the Jóhann of Paul, Pálsson's son, would like to again confirm that, in my mind, there is reason. A senator perfectly qualified to talk about the matter I am referring to. You may not be able to maintain large control over the state of agriculture and outlooks and conditions from this small bill, but I take it primarily as an effort to promote the production of meat and promote European agriculture. The situation has simply become so that we move in according to numbers published by up to 20% or about 20% of the meat we market and sell on land. It's been reported in debates. Senators, we're bringing in a substantial amount of beef. We should therefore look beyond the field and discuss the growth of meat production and agriculture, since I believe that the ground should be a priority, so we do not necessarily sit in this position. I have great faith in human society, and the bill is part of strengthening it. I've often wondered why we haven't really reached that level anymore, since we have many rural areas in Iceland to have and keep large flocks and produce this species of beef. I often watch the average country and the Skaftáreppa as an ideal area to keep large flocks. Now I admit that I don't know all the locations there, but I'm sure it's the thought of driving through the countryside that there's a lot of potential. But I'm not going to hide it from the subject of the bill that I want to be very careful about changing the law and the sentence of the principles here to guide into law. I am a conservative in my nature, and conservativeness is usually good, caution is virtue. We have a tragic experience with import, in fact, in living animals, and we must be careful. For a short time, in the office of the old cost manager, in his desk at the Farmer's Hall, a certificate was stored that was to be shown. Health of sexually transmitted rams was transferred several decades ago. How that story was all and how it developed is a hell to avoid and learn from. The words of the Witnesses can be valid, and it is important to acquire them, but not all are obtained with them. That is why I agree with many points presented in the Sermon on the Mount. paritaprevir Acquiring Össur's Skarphéðinsson about caution, about the more clear rules, about looking at better grounds in the back. Hv. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson pointed to changes in law made in the past because of the import of DNA or sperm for use in pigs. To me, the basic differences between pig farms and human society are fundamental. Pig farms are essentially isolation centers. Pigs farms are very closed. In this regard, the ambition of farmers is to maintain good health in their farms. One way they do this is by limiting excessive traffic around their farms, by keeping strict hygiene and vigilance in these materials, and by seeing that pigs are visited that they have very high levels of infectious diseases. In nature, therefore, there is a fundamental difference between bullies and pig farming, so we need to carefully review how we make isolation centers and handle imported DNA. That's why I've made public notice of the bill of my council, so I'll inform you, because there's a lot of things we need to understand and talk about. That's not what I'm saying. We're supposed to shut us down and not do this. I remind you, we've previously moved in genetics to improve the quality of the pieces of flesh and it's only done well, let's not forget it. But this was also done with great difficulty. In this discussion it has been attributed to the fact that farmers have long waited for this matter to be donated, and long before they were allowed to import DNA. Then I'd like to remind you that this was really the way for farmers to move forward in the once used channel. And if the time had been spent that has passed since this discussion came up, it would have been expected to have the DNA today, using the methods that were once known and practiced. So it is not that the refusal to present this matter resulted in a greater challenge for the cow farmers than they could have been in other ways and more efficient to achieve the results they are seeking to achieve by supporting this matter. It may also be wondered, though, that there is a much more delicate issue in both the nation and the farms, why we should limit the matter to a member of the human family, why we do not just have general legislation on how we are importing the genetic code of cattle. Is it not enough for us to arrange the case in such a way that it is a general law that allows humans to import the DNA of other sexes, such as milk petals, as an example? Let us not ignore the fact that if this becomes a law, we begin to work, the pressure goes up from the direction that requires more efficient cowkind, and we are likely to point them to the example of this case. So I think it would be an advantage, at any rate, to take that discussion, even though I understand the politics behind the mention of only the pieces of flesh on the case. This is to meet certain viewpoints and extreme views, both among the people and among farmers. There are many opportunities to promote beef production in Iceland. I would like to refer to the fact that there is now an extremely extensive study of the growth rate of the Icelandic cowkind. We have a lot to do in improving feeding and equipment, achieving growth rate, and I believe there's a lot of access to farmers to increase their efficiency. Hv. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson spoke here about the method of manufacturing and the possibility of beef on foreign markets, I agree with that, and now one of the most growing sectors of agriculture is in the area he discussed here, i.e. In the world of beef production, where there are grass-fed things. This is mine to know something we should put in the sprig when talking about the growth of agriculture and the growth of cattle farms in Iceland. There are a number of other teams. Hv. paritaprevir Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir discussed equipment, and now farmers have a very strict need of equipment. Not all of these are directly designed to promote agriculture and to promote agriculture and how we have made their induction. For a long time, I completely agree with their main thoughts, and I would like to state that it is the rivalry of every farmer to live in his best interests. But the door to joy could be slower there, especially because we have so extremely far in the country, with the demand in the country. There are also reasons for doing so. paritaprevir Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir traced, prices in this article, and the goods of this article. I've been getting a lot better in the past few months and loss. It is also noteworthy and thought - provoking, without us putting on long talks about it, why it is difficult to market lamb now for a time in increasing tourist flow, but it is simply a fact that people are more accustomed to eating beef and therefore order themselves to eat beef. It may be less likely for the reasons this could have set up between the demand and the production in the country, but I don't want to belittle the point of view that for too long, in too many years the survival of beef production in Iceland has been sad. It's hard to discuss the situation, and we're simply reaping now, by this hole that I so mention, in the difference between the availability and demand of the domestic market, the result of having let too long drive on our shoulders to create a proper setting for beef production. Finally, I'd like to reiterate that we need to make it happen fast and well through a professional committee. We may be able to handle it at this council, but we need to, as others have warned in the preceding talks, understand the risks we might take, try to calm down, and be careful. I have not changed my mind about the material I've been talking about in public, about the risks in these topics, and about the important work we have to do, to protect the health status of Icelandic livestock.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u54	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for his speech. As the senator considered, this bill is good for those in the article, for those in the production of beef, and for those in human society. Also, I would like to agree with what the senator went through, that it is good to learn from what was before. I would also like to agree with my colleagues here that there must be some caution on this matter and that there are clear rules. That's what I've been most critical today, and I don't think it's clear enough about the rules that follow, only the possibility of setting rules and procedures. I wanted to go over that something has been waiting for this, and also what I was talking about earlier, the incompetent ones who were made up of, and we have to take some notice and go better. I would have thought it was the best opportunity to introduce them to this bill. I agree with what. A senator that there is an opportunity to produce beef is a question: Do we engage in further research, on a pair at the speed of research, along with the import of DNA for the best performance? Finally, with regard to existing policy measures, such as winter. A candidate came up to see, their adaptation period along the article, an increase in production, and a faster production, as we need to see if they are best equipped to do so. Otherwise, once again, emphasis must be made on the need for a better guidance on the disinfectants and import options.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u55	Mr. President. I have great respect for the viewpoints of others. paritaprevir Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir speaks of being cautious about such things. I believe it and agree that, of course, research on the field of beef production or older fish for beef production, etc. Well, I hope that's what we're doing, and I'd like to remind you on this occasion that we have increased funding for the research contract of Iceland's Landing University, which is why we have new and more opportunities to promote these research. About recentization and any view as valid. I'd like to say first: I'll be there right now because of this demand and the tools you see, that many people are thinking of moving, building special farms, beef farms, or changing old houses with much more specialized farming in mind than they may have been before. In the past, it was very common for sheep farmers to cook a bull's farm as a side bloc. With the change in sheep contracts and rising prices in the foreign markets of lamb, it changed, so that instead, the animals were pushed out of their formulation and specialized in the flocks, and there were not many who actually came into their place. The nature of human society is, in effect, very good for building up and having part - time work in rural areas that are convenient. In our neighboring countries, it is really a hallmark of human survival.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u56	Mr. President. We have a very dangerous situation here at the council. The socilic agrienvironment wings have been in support of both the independent party and its agricultural guru and its highest. Agricultural minister, so I don't know if my career will be much longer after the discussion today. On the other hand, I want to thank you. A candidate for a very fine talk presented by a psychic man. I have no interest in it, I like meat, but I put beef in third place, I'm a horse meatman, and then I get my lamb. But I completely agree with what. A senator that there is a special opportunity to produce beef, and I see that we are on the same line with the possibility of plowing a field for Icelandic beef abroad. I think the future will show it after men gather to reorganize the article, in particular the processing of the product and slaughter, and will also need to be taken into account in the future market. I cut by one at what? Senator. He asked a body of Congress, such as by chance, whether a person should take the step to the full, and whether it is not reasonable to make a knot so that the channel that is being created in the bill goes not only to flesh but to all cattle. I find it worth more than one Mass to consider, so I would like to throw that question back and ask why. A member of the council to see if he intends to tear the idea into the process of the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u57	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. To address the question that he ended up with, I think -- or I don't think so, I'll ask a client about it when they're in trouble. A professional health committee may have wondered if it would just as well be good for them to take care of the legislation, in the sense that there are good laws and regulations on this subject. By this I do not make known to be brought in by dairy whelps at the proper time: therefore the cast itself shall answer; I will not answer the Allied Council nor the Council's Business Committee. Because we're going to speeches and stuff. A senator mentioned the potential market of beef on a foreign market to say that there is much to change, and he mentioned it, in slaughtering and processing so that we can take advantage of that opportunity to a great extent. This situation has been in Iceland for a very long time to produce farming prices, whether we look at lamb or beef, it has been lower or very similar to our Icelandic farms and neighboring countries than to the sale - we'll become more incompatible, so to speak, Mr. President, when we have gone through the process and through the slaughter and I don't talk about the store where these costs change dramatically. That's why I'd like to ask why. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's cousin asks him to respond: "How can we tackle that part? There's some things that kind of drive us into a ditch in comparison, but there's behind Icelandic farmers who have for a long time, at least in the lamb, had a very low product prices compared to our colleagues in other countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u58	Mr. President. Ask questions that arise. A senator throws up on me about the store, and I just want to say that I agree with everything that is highest. President, Þorsteinn Sæmundsson, has said something about that case from this chair. Just to review my own political history and my own, I mention that at the time, I proposed to apply the principle of a competitive, partial, disintegrating large supply companies that had become a monopoly on the market and had been submerged before and nearly decomposed from office as the head of the Union at the time; I just review it. On the other hand, I insist that that that part needs a careful look at it. Hv. A senator says that it is the council and the professional committee to decide whether to import milk's genes. I'd like to ask you what. A senator straight out: What's his opinion?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u59	Mr. President. I notice why. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson has played many dangerous games. He began his answer earlier by referring to his arrival in ice when he had not only agreed with agrienvironmental minister but also with an independent people. Then he added more and began to recall his past as chairman of the United States, offering radical suggestions for the dissociation of commercial powers. In fact, I think it's very interesting suggestions, I've thought for a long time that there's some action that we need to sharpen here to greatly enhance prices and transparent prices. Before we decide to import a new cowkind, Mr President, we have a lot of things to do. My examination of how to import new cows or not - I see many benefits of importing dairy cows. I'm not saying that I'm going to fight for it, but we have many valuables in the Icelandic cow sex that at least we have to take a serious talk about, even though it would be only a discussion of how we're going to protect the cow race, which is then under international definition of extinction, and we have a responsibility to protect their interests. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u60	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Haraldur, the son of Benediktsson, has a great desire for good speech and for the courage and courage he manifests by having the courage to express himself on agrienvironmental matters, even though they are only related to them. At the same time, I thank him for the support he showed me, that he agrees with me in that I can only express myself on the seaside. I'm not going to tell you how much better I feel about speeches here where people speak with knowledge, where you hear that people know things, instead of having talks where there is trouble. Some people here speak for hours without having anything to do with it, just to talk. [[Up front.]] I'd like to ask you what. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, because he knows these matters. I remember a time when we had the flesh in Piglet, and when the seed and DNA were passed through it: What is the difference between this method and the way it was?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u61	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I just want to say that I have felt that those who have participated in it all spoke with great knowledge about the matter and had a sound view. [[Up front.]] About a question why. The senator's distinction between what we did before was so that in Piglet, he was expelled from a so - called solitary station. We brought in fetuses and had them in solitary confinement, and then we took the next generation ashore. I mentioned it in my talk earlier, and that channel is known. He is in my mind the One and is the best way to go, but he has a huge cost. I think that's the main reason why this case is at hand and what is suggested here. Then I'm going to say again: There may well be complete evidence to say that this is a completely safe and acceptable route, but I think the isolation factor from an old age and the cost of it, the generation gaps it had and the cost it would be the primary reason for which we chose this way beyond the old and known.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u62	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. It has now been a long time since the transfer of DNA. I'd like to ask you what. A senator would be able to mention some numbers in this regard. When do farmers see results in this change? Is that after one year, two years or five years? What's the difference between what's produced in this? How much more are the products, if we can say so, by percent? I know it's also quite better meat. Our visits with a professional committee on a farm like this have shown that a long wait is left for steaks of such a cattle breed. [[The president calls.]] Well, maybe. A senator gave us some numbers in this regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u63	Mr. President. I'm just going to admit right away that I can't talk very accurately about the figures I'm talking about. We're talking about some other type of beef, but we fall from Icelandic sex, a flesh-filled steer. Some say it's better than food. It's a very special meat, and it's very desirable to have it here. About the first question why. The senator could take two and a half years to three with the traditional British way of using it, at a cost of 1,295,140 million. A jar that would follow, so it would take a really long time for farmers to obtain a new DNA. I'm certainly not suggesting with my warnings that we need to follow that path, I make it clear again and again. On the other hand, I'd like to understand whether this route is safe enough, in the opinion of experts such as the Tiluna Center for Iceland's University, that it is about the security we need to show to the Icelandic livestock. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u64	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for the interest of the senators and the objective discussion on this subject today. I'm going to try to answer some of the questions or thoughts in the Senate and perhaps have a little bit of trouble about the situation and the prospects. If I recall correctly, almost 1/3 of the beef eaten here was transferred in the country last year. Iceland's feed market has reached over 5,000 tons of beef, but the sheep market is 6,600 tons, and there is an enormous rise in beef year after year, including a million tourists, as observed in one senator, and many evidence that the growth in recent years, even 20%, continues. So there is a probability that the demand for beef for food in the domestic market will grow very rapidly and, if you look forward, approaching the market of sheep meat, but as members know, we'll move out about 1/3 of the sheep. Clearly, then, for farmers who want to go into new habitats or expand themselves growing grass and meat, it is a promising market to go out in producing beef. Last year, it was about 900 million, the part that was brought in, that we paid into the currency instead of producing here within the country. Clearly, then, for young farmers and older ones who want to have a good time producing food in the local market, the bull market is the best. It was also a question of whether young farmers would have felt that way. The Ministry strengthened young farmers to study organic cattle farming during the past year, where they are deeply interested in taking the step further - like that. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson spoke of the worst-time interpretation of eco-friendliness and that's right. Although he can certainly not get a witness unless man goes all the way, he is inclined to be organic. The premise of young peasants was the transfer of DNA so that such a business would be profitable. There are no new tests, but what? paritaprevir Haraldur Benediktsson pointed out that such research is being carried on, but earlier research, when import was being imported in the 1990's, indicated that there was about 25% more profit in pure Aberdeen Angus or Limousine pieces over the Icelandic cow stock, which were said to produce beef. Thus, it is an enormous number of opportunities for growth and growth rate. It is based primarily on the practice of killing traditional Icelandic bulls at about two years of age, i.e. At the age of 24 months, and at that time, for those feeding the best, and for many, the comparable items of the pure Aberdeen Angus or Limousine sex may be 1,71⁄218 months, so there is a clear increase in profit in being able to produce the same amount in shorter periods. So this is truly an opportunity. The report on these working conditions and the implementation of beef production made several cases to the European Commission, to the legislature authority, and this is one of them, namely, to present a bill allowing the import of DNA - we are answering it with this bill, nothing else. Last year, the council adopted 5.5 million budget proposals to introduce so-called Euro-meat food on beef, which we've started, it's also one of the conditions on the state of state to stand up for, and we've done it and we're incorporated it. There, the classification will appear much more clearly. This system was recorded in the sheep's flesh a while ago, but today it is all too common for people who are producing beef to be classified into too few categories. Good products can be produced by the Icelandic cowkind, even very good and very desirable. The meat is more delicate, as has been discussed, and many find it much better if it is successful, than the meat of an object of flesh that is coarser, but it can be done very well. At that time, however, the classification will be far greater than those who do well will receive a higher payment for the product than those who do less well. Because of what? paritaprevir Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir admitted that there were other factors missing, so I agree that much more is needed to be done. Here, though, we are primarily concerned with one of the conditions on the State's authority to meet in order to develop better working conditions for the production of beef in the country. We then face agricultural contracts, and in most Western countries the most fortified industry is beef production. This may explain why farmers have not been producing enough quantity in the past, which is one of the reasons why environmental conditions have not been good enough. We're dealing with it with a new carnivore, we're dealing with it by presenting this bill, and more things have to be done, and in the livestock deal, it's definitely going to be examined. I think it is very important not to mix up the information on the import of this genetic material and then to import the potential DNA due to a new phrase or the incorporation of it. That discussion is somewhat shorter. A special risk assessment for lactation has not been made. The question about biodiversity needs to be answered, how do we live up to the international commitments to protect the DNA of the Icelandic cowkind? And, in fact, there are a number of other questions raised by members of Congress today, including those of the class's will, how to perform sexuality, etc. But it is very important that we finish this case now in spring, for if we don't, it's late in the year; because flesh boils in cattle farming are placed primarily in the spring, or in the early summers, and until the fall, they're in the spring. For example, if we were going to finish this in the fall, we're late for a year, so in fact, this is a date issue that we need to finish before spring. It also showed up. paritaprevir Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir cheeky about mixing in milk petting. The Icelandic milk cows can produce about 10 of you. A quart of milk and has tremendous efficiency, the best, and the best have average products of between 7,000 and 8,000 litres per year after one cow. A person's diet does not produce milk that much, so there is no danger of mixing it in to produce milk cows, but humans are using it to strengthen beef production. And we've done it before, here have been Galloway jewels and here have been Aberdeen Angus jewels and here have been Limousine jewels and this has all been going fine. However, we need to think about the story, and it tells us that we should be careful. Here was the import of karapus in 1933, causing all kinds of problems that we are in fact dealing with, resulting in an adventurous cost. In the last decade and a half, we have seen the virus enter and even bacteria that do not cause disease abroad in the Icelandic horsekind, which is causing epidemics in Iceland. It is clear that this has cost us a considerable amount of money. So in this case we need to be careful, we need to have shoulderbands and belts, and learn from experience. It has been called for lack of direction, in Article 2. The D- force of law, 3rd. mg, considering the possibility of import, to the metre of conditions listed in Article 8. The conditions I entered in my case - there is a group that returned to the Ministry at the beginning of April, and it is more than likely that the results there are, there are two suggestions, for a job interview. It explains the conditions that need to be available for import, and there are, in fact, two different ways, and I think it is important that members of the Parliament study this in a public convention committee and discuss it. At the same time, when we say that we are going to have shoulderbands and belts, we need to realize that we are going to improve the conditions as quickly as possible. We don't need to give a discount on the risk of disease. It has been evaluated many times, it is small or even insignificant, but we can never be 100% sure, as with the karapus, which was brought in with Witness talks that had a boy. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson spoke of. I remember it was from the prestigious German scientific station Halle that was then considered one of the most respected ones in Europe. It was all at the back and back, but we got all sorts of pawns we've been dealing with since our sheep. It is also true that the import of the DNA in pigs or cattle is not exactly the same, because, as noted, pig farms are more and less closed than the pieces of flesh will go outside and mix with other cattle, not only of cattle, but also of sheep and goat breeds, and some diseases may interact there. I agree with you, too. paritaprevir Snatcher Össur's Skarphéðinsson and others who came on that opportunity, if they keep looking, and they are going to turn more and more to use land quality in Iceland to produce beef and we're going to produce from abroad, this product is being exported. There is an ever - increasing demand for grass produced meat that will be well paid for. A respectable president. I'm going to finish my case by saying that I think it's important that a professional committee handles it well, and I trust her completely to do so. I want to remind you that it's important that we finish this case now in spring because otherwise we're delaying progress in cattle farming for a year.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u65	A respectable president. I recommend here for bill to correct law change, No. 99/1993, the manufacture, prices and sale of farms, food agencies and customs legislation, on deck. 1168, No. 694. The bill of this work prepared in the industry and the Ministry of Development usually responds to criticism in reports published by the Kingdom Accounting Agency from 2010 to 2014. The reports included comments on the lack of law and contracts of the employment and innovations of the European Farmers Association that the Agency is bound by the management and information legislation in the implementation of agricultural projects. In December 2013, between the Ministry and the National Farmer Association of Iceland, it was decided that the transfer of administrative projects from the organization and to the institutions of the Ministry, including those of the United States, would be accomplished. The initiative of the Coalition. It was the Ministry's assessment that part of the work was best set up in the Food Institute, such as the registration of the payment market and the handing of bone pay and the payment of bone payment. The bill therefore contains changes that include simplifying the implementation of agricultural legislation in such a way that the administrative activities as outlined in the regulations of the Member States will be on the hands of the official bodies, i.e. Food Agency. The bill also contains changes in agricultural products that deal with the release of the prices of farming, the disposition of reduced and ruined bone grafts in sheep's sheep production and the collection of information on farming production, production and sales. It is also suggested that the laws of the law involved in housing checks in the quality-controlled sheep product because of changes made on law No. 55/2013, for the well - being of animals, and for the law No. 38/2013, about livestock. It is suggested that the price of sheep and horse flesh be canceled in section V of the law. It is suggested that the vow of the law be continued by law, which is generally used over the laws in spoken and written. Il. chapter 5 of the bill discusses changes in law No. 80/2005, about Food Institute. In this chapter, the role of the Agency is clear according to the regulations of the livestock. The chapter also contains provision for provisional activities that focus on the workers of the National Farmers Association of Iceland, who have taken care of the administrative projects proposed to be transferred from the organization to the Food Organization. In III. chapter 6 of the bill contains a modification of the rules of toll law No. 88/2005, because of the change in the name of the law suggested to be future agricultural laws, as mentioned earlier. If the bill is legal, it will affect the activities of Iceland's Farming Association, which have taken control of agricultural projects, but by transport of the projects, the administrative and interest services will be clearly set aside. The work of the Food Agency will also be affected by the approval of the bill, as the Agency will now be expected to perform the administrative work done by the European Community. Then the bill, if it is legal, will not have a burdensome effect on farmers, i.e. individual and lawgiver, under the law of the livestock. Instead, they will contribute to a simpler, clearer administrative program. A respectable president. I have now explained the key points of the bill and the reasons for its donation and suggest that it be referred to accordingly. The pro board and the 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u66	Madam President. At this point, I'm not going to make any comments to the bill. I'd like to ask the highest question. Minister to Level 3. The bill, it states that a minister is obliged to set a regulation in which further recommendations are made regarding the need for reduced and thwarted bone payment. According to Article 3. among other things, it is to identify the official party that hires them. Then I'd like to ask the highest question. Minister: Who is the person to whom the arrangements have been made?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u67	A respectable president. It is a so - called agricultural action committee that deals with this at any given time, requiring confirmation of a minister in accordance with current agricultural laws. In a better way, this article explains a minister's approach in order to set up regulations that can be followed by humans. This is one way to meet the viewpoints that have been published in Kingdom Accounting reports.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u68	Madam President. We'll discuss this bill to correct the change in production, prices and sale laws. The minister did well in his case as to what was going on here. I still want to come in for the bill. This is due to the criticism of the State Reconnaissance, which felt that the implementation of domestic contracts would need to be intensified. In March 2011, the National Review Report Execution of Public projects to Iceland's Farmers Association and in the conclusion of the report stated: The European Commission of the European Union and the United States have established the European Commission and its national competent authority. The Agency also supervises the work and economic implementation of agricultural projects that governments and the Council have committed to them by law, by regulations, by contracts and by various administrative decisions. Thus, in part the agreement has been committed to public authority, which includes, in part, the United States and the United States. in decision-making on public payments for farmers, calculations, payment and monitoring of their implementation. All of this is what I think needs to be maintained, because, in fact, it overlaps interests, let's say, and that is, of course, the criticism of the State Accounting. This report suggests that neither the law nor the agreements of the Ministry with the National Institutes of Farmers (EICO) require that the organisation be bound by the regulations of administrative law and the regulations of information in the implementation of projects. That is why it was the National Reconnaissance opinion that the Agency should observe the regulations of the law in the implementation of the projects. The report also lists the main projects established by the National Institute for Food and Drug Administration in 2010. I'd like to state that I believe the Farmers have carried out this project in a unique way, but it's only natural that Government Accounting makes comments on this arrangement. Public Research Report was followed by a follow-up report: The provision of public projects to Iceland's National Association in March 2014 can be studied both of the reports on the website of the Agency. It is stated in the bill that the Ministry had responded to the comments made by the State Accounting Office, including the U.S. with a contract with the National Farmer Association on a project on farms and livestock contracts, and then Iceland's Farming Association and Food Organization made a contract for a project for the Food Agency. As noted above, the objective of the bill is to respond to the criticism presented in the state reexamination report and at the same time simplifying the implementation of the livestock so that administrative projects specified in the law are in the hands of one member, the Office of the Ministry. So the bill is part of another milestone of the Ministry's Convention and Iceland's Farmer Association to transport administrative projects from the Bavors to the Ministry Substitution. The bill is primarily relevant to the work of Iceland's Farmer Association and Food Agency, but it also involves farmers and the individuals, lawyers and institutions, who deal with Iceland's Farms Association and Food Organization for administrative projects, under the legal requirements. If the bill is legal, it will affect the work of Iceland's Farming Association, which has carried out administrative projects, but the transport of the projects will be made clear between administrative and interest services. Am I right to underline it? The work of the Food Agency will also be affected by the approval of the bill, and the Agency will be expected to continue to operate on the administrative projects that have been used by the European Commission in the past. It says that the Agency will be authorized to hire workers of the Bavors Association who have been involved in administrative projects. I think it's very good to say this, because there's, of course, knowledge available to those who have done this job. According to agricultural law, a food agency is holding the front payment for sheep and milk production, while Iceland's Farm Association has carried out this project in its contract for the past few years. According to the Department of Employment and Development, over the past few years the Ministry has paid the National Institutes of Iceland a fee for handling these administrative projects, and this fee has been based on the total expansion of the individual financial resources that the Agency has provided for its payment or provision. In accordance with current agreement for 2015, it is expected that the fee will be 59 million. At a rate, this amount is withdrawn from the entire subsidies of the budget. The next year's costs are not expected to be largely altered, and if the bill becomes the law, the same amount is expected to be 59 million. K., moving to the Food Agency for transport on this administrative project. At the end of the bill, I want to celebrate the bill and believe that it will face the general criticism that has been presented in the society of administrative decisions and interests when it comes to a lot of money and would love to wake up. The senators thought it well for a long time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u69	Madam President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Lilja Electrical Rafney, the daughter of Magnúsdóttir for her speech, will come up here just to say what's happening. Senator I'm celebrating the conduct of this bill, it's long time. I believe I have a certain knowledge that for a long time the local community was waiting to be cleansed of the suspicion of mismanagement of government funds, as it has often been in public discussion. Hv. A senator correctly stated that in the opinions of the State Accounting, there has never been any such thing or any doubt about it. We'll give you a fine talk. I think the senator may make it up to you to know a little bit about this subject. The community is composed of three units. It was produced in 1995 when Iceland's Farm Association, which once was a semi-reliant state institution, joined a rural relationship, which was the project of the agricultural policy, which was, in effect, a semi-reliant state or agricultural development agency, moved in 1999 to the Farm Group. That's why these projects are in there. I'm not gonna ask you what. Rather, I wanted to correct this prehistory only as soon as I agree with it. A senator's progress is to make clear the separation between him and a number of such steps that we need to take into account.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u70	Madam President. I agree with what you're saying. The senator's concern is that we need to look to other factors and institutions so that we are not in the same position to do the same. I also know well that the local community was not necessarily impressed with having these projects, though. A senator introduced the prehistory of their acceptance. They have had their assignments in their arms, but not necessarily because they have sought to earn money from them, that is not the case. Of course, a report by the State Review Centre encouraged the establishment of this separation and the implementation of projects under the Ministry's Office of Health, Food Organization, or the process. I believe this has worked out very well, and it is also not good for the peasants to be overly critical of these things. All too often, I believe that farmers are being subjected to unfair criticism, and it is good for them to be equipped so as not to be critical that they themselves are getting income from carrying out these matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u71	President. I appreciate the discussion, and I want to come up here to make sure that they were right. Council members here have mentioned that the arrangement has been almost unfounded, very practical for the government, but because of the indications which have repeatedly been made by the Government Accounting on the precise status of the Council of Prayer as to the administrative legislation and the information legislation, it is most understandable that the National Association, with which their initiative, wants to remove this mission to explain the better part of the separation. We would like to take that step so that it will be clear. I remember in the 2011 report, when a great attendance against the peasant organizations was launched during the last term by the last district of government groups, that a representative of the Government Revision came to the local employment committee and when the report was reviewed, it did not have much to do with this, which we're reacting here, and then a representative acknowledged that there was a wide pot broken on projects that were still at state institutions, to form a child protection firm which I clearly remember. It is true that the work has been done conscientiously, but it is both wise and modern to cut the knot between them separate. About the answer to the oar. Skarphéðinsson I'd like to add this, and hope that the members of that council hear my case, that these reduced and thwarted bone pay has been set aside for the last few years of the Commission's contracts, and they confirm these decisions and have been arranged for marketing of sheep meat. The local community has set aside reduced and thwarted bone payment through the Coalition, the National Association of Sheeps, and the Land Association of the Masquerade on the affairs of sheep breeding, i.e. Through the Market of Sheep's Diets. It is our assessment that it is better to have further instructions on the disposition of affected and ruined bone repairs, and it is suggested in Article 3. that a minister may be allowed to recommend the procedure for the implementation of laws. It will then consider what projects in sheep's sheep'flocks will be assigned and which government bodies will be assigned to set aside the funds in line with the aim of making sheep products as described in Article 36. The law of the law, whether money or money, will be taken into account for marketing or for other projects that will be most useful to the article. So it is our evaluation, if the bill be by law, that the provision of damaged and impaired bone repairs will become clearer and clearer. This is explained in an explanation of Article 3. in the bill. After that, I thank the delegates for their careful discussion on this subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-29-98.u72	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to correct the change in animal diseases laws and protect against them, No. 25/1993, with subsequent changes, No. 644 p.m. 1107. The bill is bringing a permit unit to the Food Agency. It is also a change of law on the implementation of EU regulations. In 1st. 10th par. The law is a list of products that are forbidden to import into the country. This import limit is to prevent the spread of animal diseases into the country. According to current regulations, a minister has been allowed to extend the import of the product as listed in the 1 mg group. 10. ............................. to specific conditions filled up and to the father's references of the Food Institute. According to the current law, immigrants who apply for permission to import the products mentioned above need to send in a request to the Ministry, and thereafter the request has been sent to the Food Office for Enlightenment. At the request of the Agency's testimonials, the Office has issued a declaration for import. In 2014 the Ministry granted 350 permission to import raw meat as well as to sign 350 transport reports on meat imports. This bill suggests that the application procedure will be simplified and the Food Agency can allow the import of the products listed in the A◯e team 1 mg. 10th par. The law is that certain conditions are fulfilled. It is suggested that the whole process be transferred to the Agency without the permission of the Ministry. Therefore, the presence of the Ministry would be unnecessary. This arrangement will save the administrations and importers time and money and make the system simpler and more efficient. This adjustment is in accordance with the government's work programme for simple and more efficient regulations for the industry. It focuses primarily on the internal administration organization. It means better management because decisions that have so far been taken at one administrative level will be taken at a lower administrative level, and therefore dear to the Ministry. On the project of the bill, the Ministry sought out the information of the Food Agency. The Agency believes the change is for improvement. Other adjustments in the arrangement are changes in wording to conform to the wording of the law and make it clearer. This bill also suggests enforcing clearance in 29rd. Should a new application be changed. This change is necessary because the current legislation does not allow Ministers to implement new regulations into national rights according to Iceland's commitments according to the European Economic Area Convention and therefore it is necessary to update the legislation so that a minister has such a warrant. This law is generally expressed in order to avoid the need for legal adjustments every time new rules on these matters are established in the European Union. The text of the law in the bill speaks of the European Commission regulations to address the European Commission's regulations as well as the Council and the Commission's Regulation. A respectable president. I have now explained the key points of the bill and the reasons for its donation and suggest that it be referred to accordingly. The pro board and the 2nd.
