ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-07-17.u1	Borist has a letter from the 7th. That's the north side. "Kristján L. Möller, that he will not be able to be a member of Congress in the near future. So today, the company's 1st deputy is taking over to the district list, Erna Indriðadóttir. The letter of Erna Indriðadóttir's daughter has already been investigated and agreed to believe, but she has not taken her place before in the Council, so the commitment to the Constitution is to be signed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-07-17.u2	Indriðadóttir Indiadóttir has signed her commitment to the Constitution and is welcome to serve at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-07-17.u3	A respectable president. Yesterday, there was a noise under this team. paritaprevir Sigríður Ingadóttir, Ágjörgärður, noticed that he was the leader of the country. The prime minister would not now have missed her request to discuss the insurance and her resistance to it. A senator. It is simply so that we cannot be accepted as members of Congress that the prime minister of the country does not fulfill his basic minister's obligation to have a word with members of Congress about a matter that the members of Parliament would like to discuss with them. According to the council, this obligation is unconvinced, leading directly to the Senate's check-up with counsellors who are written into the constitution. I need to draw attention to this, now that we see the day's program, that there is no special discussion there. All we have to do is send the mail to the highest level. Secretary of State wants to carry in here from Brussels in new adaptation projects. [[The president calls.]] Then you must ask: Why can't a discussion of this kind, which has been long waited for, and where is the will of the governments to discuss some material issue here at the council?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-07-17.u4	A respectable president. It's normal to have a good time. Prime Minister does not want to discuss the fraud of the forward party's campaign campaign to defuse insurance. It is natural that, now a month after loss, he has not met his solemn duty to address the discussions that have been asked for, for months, to be done here. It is embarrassing, dignified president, to see the day's program where there is no special discussion. There's a wish. paritaprevir Sigríður Ingibjörg the daughter of Ingadóttir is discussing the main campaign of the advance team with the head of the party. This request has been available for a year and a half when the request is made that the prime minister's report on insurance be discussed here. It has not yet been realized, and there is no discussion for today's program. Government inactivity and lack of affairs from government officials are also shocking, for today it is reserved for the induction of some form from the European Union. [[The president calls.]] There are no diplomats, no initiatives from the government on the council program. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-07-17.u5	A respectable president. I think very much that last January, a member of the United States Parliament, Sigríður Ingadóttir, asked for a special discussion with the prime minister on insurance. That request was not realized throughout the previous council, i.e. ... fromJapaneseofJapanese. Now people are running from that discussion again. I must also ask a respectable president: Is this okay? Does the Senate allow a person to fail to answer requests for such a discussion? This is what we senators have, i.e. Unprepared queries, special discussions, we also have written queries. Ministers must answer such requests and inquiries. I wish, sir, a respectable president, that the president would immediately approach Prime Minister to request that he grant this request immediately, if not this week, then by the next, if he is far beyond it in some way. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There's something serious about this. It's not possible anymore. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-07-17.u6	Mr. President. You can now recall that this seems to be a little limited to the highest. Prime Minister. Hv. paritaprevir Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir, Brynhildir, also waited many months to have a conversation with him about matters that are dear to him, subjects he took to heart in his Ministry. When men decide to do that, they have to answer for it, that's just the way it is. It's very unusual that a minister should allow himself to be treated this way to the council, and you don't really understand why. Why is it that the prime minister does not want to discuss matters that please him? I'm going to assume that he cares about housing and insurance, that there were two of his main issues in the campaign. After both, it seems that it will take a very long time to wait. A respectable president. I will answer the request that it be heard, and it shall be discussed why the minister is not here to answer. It's not enough to say, like the highest. The president has said that the written request has grown to such an extent that the Ministry is losing weight. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] If this is not a conversation, it needs to be done in writing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-07-17.u7	President. Like the rest of them. I am amazed that the prime minister is not coming to this special discussion about the insurance policy. As far as I can remember, it was a big deal with the Agency, and it's strange that he can't answer for it in a special discussion. I also wonder at the convention program today, which is all about the EEA types, as someone says: Brussels photocopies, and reviews that last year there were no issues here until the last few weeks of the council or at least in the past few months, and we were here until July. I would love to encourage the highest. In order for a president to be driven after the government, he will bring in the issues he intends to submit in order for them to receive their proper treatment. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-07-17.u8	V.E.G. President. Fortunately, I have seen in general the progress of a relatively large number of people. Senators are requesting a special discussion with the Minister of the Supreme Court. A government, but with one large exception, it is already at the highest level. Prime Minister. It is absolutely unacceptable that the prime minister himself does not come and have a word with the council, with members of the council, when they seek to have a conversation with him. So I'd like to agree with what's been said here and wishes to the highest degree. President, he's talking to the highest. The prime minister, making it clear that he has obligations to the council, and he comes here to discuss matters with him. Senators ask to speak with him. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-07-17.u9	A respectable president. It is appropriate to initiate this debate by referring to the big news this morning that the government had decided that about one thousand hepatitis C patients should receive new medicines for the disease. The decision has been made to cooperate with the pharmaceutical company Gilead, which means that the company will submit the medicinal product Harvoni to about 1,200 people, whose hepatitis C medicine will almost always be used. The health minister calls this a major pre- and public health campaign, and it's not aggressive. All persons diagnosed with the virus will be offered instruction, treatment and follow-up and are expected to minimise the risk of new infections through human transmission. The campaign is three years old and the government has agreed to contribute about 150 million. K. During a year that will be used for blood tests and other services related to treatment. This is likely to mean that hepatitis C can be eliminated in this country and is a major event. Each year, 40 in the U.S.A. alone,70 individuals with hepatitis C are diagnosed in the country. The disease can lead to cirrhosis, liver cancer, liver failure, and liver transplantation in patients. The right medication is vital. This new project is not to be costed by individuals. The product is offered free of charge, including those not participating in studies. This is an enormously important step and much satisfaction that the government has taken this step this morning. It's time to finish with Fanney's Ásbjörnsdóttir on the news today, but she got infected with hepatitis C 32 years ago. She then appealed against the State to receive the medicine Harvoni but lost it in court. Fanney says it's great to experience that day. Let us be clear that this program of treatment is globally unique.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-07-17.u10	A respectable president. There is every reason to rejoice over the vital effort that is taking place. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson used to shave here and be happy that this step is being taken today. A respectable president. I made myself known here because of the assembly of members of the board and made it possible for a tax stability in foreign demands or, rather, efforts to help them avoid paying steady taxes. At the beginning of the week, a bill of the highest degree was measured. A secretary of finance to reduce the demands of our exchange rights, apparently to help with the government's assistance that the stocks of the fallen banks can avoid paying the tax that has been legalized and thus get in a much more inexpensive way from business so many hundreds of billions. V.E.G. The secretary of finance explained what was behind the bill on his behalf, but I miss the fact that the Parliament party of the Agency and the High Priests recognize why they have agreed to a donation of this case and why the government has chosen to use it specifically to help with these changes in law, especially that the wornouts could avoid the tax. I had understood members of the Superficial Party, so they emphasized the need for stability here with the pressures of a stable tax and that there was a full reason to listen to the Invenge's warning of climate conditions that would certainly not be ensured for a sufficient length of time or in a careful way according to the information being presented. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-07-17.u11	V.E.G. President. Week 12,◯17. In the United States, with the support of a high school student partner throughout the country, stands for the initiative. The goal of the campaign is to call attention to a loss of speech in mental - health matters of young people and to work against prejudice. If there was an appropriate paediatric service with psychiatric disorders, it might be possible to prevent needless pain, distress, high school evaporation, disability, and suicide. Children with psychiatric disorders are entitled to support and immediate help. The situation in this category is that 13◯22% of children and young people need help from mental illness at any given time, but only 20% of these children are given the help they need. Less than one in four girls in the 9th grade of Breinholti screens above the criteria for anxiety and depression. Waitings in the mental - health system are far too long. For example, a child with ADHD or ADD will need to wait 12◯16 months after diagnosis and it is practically impossible to obtain time from pediatric psychiatrists, especially for children in the country. Symptoms of psychiatric disorders occur in 50% of cases in children below 14 years of age. 75% of cases before 25 years of age. Suicide is the leading cause of death for young men in Iceland. A respectable president. The situation is unacceptable, and the Council of Youth demands that governments take action immediately, which is obligatory. I would also like to remind you that on Saturday, October 10, we will enjoy a global mental - health day throughout the world. The day is an important time to encourage all of us to work toward promoting prevention and access to mental - health, especially for young ones. Increased access to the health - care providers, as the health - care minister announces, is in line with the future's policies, and we welcome each step in that direction. It is imperative that mental - health prevention be promoted, where instruction and support of young children's parents are especially needed. Then I take up the good news, and rejoice in him who has it. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson mentioned the first talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-07-17.u12	V.E.G. President. In fact, the most common economic benefits considered are positive; decrease in unemployment, high employment level, economic growth is high and higher than in many places, debt overall declines, and demand prices have been, in particular, sustained. It is not unusual for us to fight when the economy is heating up and the loose that includes ruined production factors such as the workforce is gone; for us to look at the goal of maintaining stability together with economic growth, that we identify what is involved in the responsible management of economic issues. It is important to keep returning the treasure of the Kingdom with the leftovers, requiring the priority of money and the savings of the government anywhere. At the same time, we have to look for control of money. There, Iceland's Secret Bank has been responsible for working on legal inflation goals. High agreements and intensive growth of the economy and increasing inflation will put increased pressure on the Federal Bank to raise interest here in the months to come. Resuming and making a wise provision for the increased purchase capacity and cohesion of public and business life and for holding back prices can have an effect. I'm here at the end, with the permission of the president, to quote economist Lars Christensens, who has previously been involved in the economic situation of the nation and the analysis. He finishes a fine analysis of the visi.is today on those words, with the permission of a president: ▪ Iceland is now one of the few European countries with a powerful growth in the value of spending and the need for money policy management. [[The president calls.]] Well done. Now let us be careful not to repeat our past mistakes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-07-17.u13	A respectable president. People who are 67 years of age and older will increase by 65% over the next 15 years, from 38 thousand to 63 thousand. It's a different group of people. Happily, there are many who make it quite acceptable and some even fine, but all too large a group of people can hardly survive the pension they receive from the government insurance agency. In effect, these people are forbidden to enjoy rights that we feel so self - righteous, such as being able to go to the dentist, to receive us hearing aids if we need them or to seek justice from court. In the last agreements, a recognition was made that minimum wage would have to be raised to 300 you. K. It seems in the government to give senior citizens the same increases. Perhaps we have discussions with older citizens who are now standing up, such as the talks that are now having with government employees. Mr. President. Does anyone in this room think that older people don't need a minimum wage for a living like others? Many of these individuals, who even have to live on some 190 fars. K. In a month, it seems that politicians have let themselves down. Professor of Economics Gylfi Magnússon has shown that each generation of Iceland has returned to a better farm than it did. The older generation in Iceland today owes nobody the right and the right to live a decent life. Discrimination and prejudice against older people are seen more frequently, e.g. When trying to get older employees at work or to stop working at 67 years of age, even though they are in a fit of fun. This, for example, makes Istavia a seafaring organization and an apartment loan fund, both owned by the State. They are waiting for community action to change this condition. It is not enough to keep an inspection for months and years. Older people no longer accept being at the end of government priority when it comes to an elected period of time. Let's get a list, and let's choose our own, and a warm older woman recently told me. Is that what it takes? [[The president calls.]] Is the government pushing older citizens into business?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-07-17.u14	Mr. President. Iceland is a huge country, often difficult to cover, and very crowded. Air travel should be the most efficient means of transportation in such a country. Those who most have to rely on domestic flights are those who live the longest from the capital and attend various meetings, courses, sports, service, and culture at the southwest corner, often costing their taxes. But it is not always possible to use the domestic flight to get between parts of the country, since the costs are so high. Sports people are trying to travel at discounts called ISI pay. Only those fare costs are limited, which means that more often than not enough groups of sports are not able to travel together if a part of the joint needs a full fare. Because of this, travel costs are very taxing for local sports companies. I tried to book a couple with two children, aged 12 and 15, from Eglsports to Reykjavík and back this weekend. The flight cost the family 189,200 bucks. This enormous cost has forced people to use their private car and spend countless hours on the journey. The government must be prepared to give up money in order to level its status. Last year, an international payoff group, appointed by the Minister of the Internal Affairs, feels that it is important to reduce the cost of flights. This year's report, presented in February, points to services and reimbursement. These are passenger fees, landing fees, flying history fees, carbon dioxide emissions, tax and cost of airplane fuel, and valuable extra tax where appropriate. Don't we have to find a way to reduce these charges? One way is to consider, for example, whether children are normally paying adult fees when they are 12 years old. Children are under law until they reach 18 years of age, so they should pay the price of a child until that age. You might also discuss whether we should record some sort of juvenile fees for 13◯18 years of age, but this needs to be considered.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-07-17.u15	Mr. President. It is certainly good news that those who need medicine for hepatitis C receive the medicines they need and are appropriate. But I'd like to discuss the medications in a larger context. According to budgetary bill of 2016, a contribution to the S-labelled medicinal products is expressed by 210 million per year as a result of a projections on gang leaders. In turn, there will be an increase of 3% in the number of costs due to growth. In the latest issue of the Gröndal Gunnar, the Ragnarsson wonder whether this amount is sufficient to provide adequate medicine for the next year, in an article under the title Bjarni New Medicines for Patients in 2016? In recent years there has been a marked improvement in medicine. It has improved life expectancy, improved quality of life, and kept people employed. In this country, animal medicines are carefully used, surveillance is high, and the Landspians are only asking for drugs that have absolute value. There is a risk that a new drug used in neighboring countries could not be used due to a low budget. After the changes made during the last council, S-labelled medicinal products are no longer handled at the hands of a land hospital but some S-labelled medicinal products can be given to any pharmacy. The physician points out that the S-labelling is at the heart of the Marketing Authorisation and that this change may lead to additional costs without any increase in medicinal product therapy or improvement. As the budget, we have to take this indication seriously. If Iceland is to have health care on a global scale, the budget and arrangements must be in place. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-07-17.u16	A respectable president. Yesterday, the U.S. and State Summits of the Convention Committee failed to bring anything new from a financial minister and are clearly not authorized for further action. Accordingly, the Reykjavík Police Association, who said that the government does not want to negotiate with either the National Association of Officers, Iceland's Hospitalist Association, or the SFR, would be a serious situation and would not be a problem. The police union says the secretary of finance is disrespectful to people. We are faced with the possibility that medical personnel will be on their way to a strike. We know that after all that happened in the winter, the national hospital does not live up to this. Throughout history, we have built the Icelandic health system into the spirit of Norwegian values, where everyone should be able to use health care without paying too much for it. Today, however, we can talk about consumers'wages, for this is sad to say that a doctor is approached and if a study is needed, it often costs a lot of money. Remuneration is under treatment of a living point, and many cannot afford to see a doctor. This repugnant policy that we have witnessed in the process of personalization is something we need to stop. We are the most well - versed taxpayers, and it has been shown in research that the nation wants to establish priorities for welfare and to live under the health system. People hold back from going to the doctor, and they may even have to wind their purses if they are going to use medical care. Clearly, the financial system is designed to maintain good health care for those with whom we are in charge today. We now repeatedly read about the money paid by those who have taken care of medical services on behalf of the State, and there are no small amounts of money. It's fun to remember a story about 265 million. K. The pay of the medical facility or EVA Consortium, the mother-mate of a company such as Dr. Sinnes' home nurse who runs the Hospital Hospital in the Aarhus. Last morning, it was Flös who sold his shares in the above EV Consortium. All these parties have paid a lot of money. The most painful thing to do is that the pension fund's investments, the Quantum, are the shareholder of the New Year's Committee EV Consortium. I don't like business, and I know that many people are sorry to have nothing to say that their pensions are used for such investments. [[The president calls.]] We need to rethink and set up social interest goals and on such projects, the pension fund should invest, for sickness and illness should not be an option or market.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-07-17.u17	A respectable president. I'm here to make a subject of the comments made by the U.S. Marshal of the Council at the Councilship of the Bank of Iceland. It is stated in the statements of an agent that it appears that very serious offenses are in Iceland's Federal Office and that serious offenses have been identified in the management of confidential information. A respectable president. There must be a committee of administration and monitoring to review and review the opinions of the Allied emissary's emissary on the affairs of the Federal Government. These comments made by an agent must have touched the surface of a very large number of tests made by special prosecutors regarding alleged violations of currency policy. This is once so that the government is supposed to be to protect its citizens, not the opposite. If it turns out that these serious violations of the Federal Commission were to involve studies in individuals and businesses without valid logic or legal requirements and violations of Iceland's Secret Bank, we are in serious trouble and Iceland's Seldabanki and Iceland's Government is well beyond the limits of well-being.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-07-17.u18	A respectable president. I would like to bring the decision of the European Court on Saphre Harbor, where he was judged as being so good as invalid. The Saphre Harbor Treaty is simply about that the U.S. and European Union, including probably Iceland, if I recall correctly, may be hosted by personal information in the United States, allowing it to be granted. Under normal circumstances, this information should not be exported to non-EU legislation unless it meets the European Union's requirements. This agreement, Sapherbor's 2001 contract, has been repeatedly criticized. After Edward Snowdens's inventions, evidence showed that everything going through American services, such as Facebook, would also pass through the U.S. National Security Institute of the U.S., NSA, so we were being searched, and it's probably true for everyone in this room. The current legislation on data protection in the United States has therefore been considered insufficient for the European Union. I strongly welcome this decision, since it will be such a relief to the European and international personal protection.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-07-17.u19	A respectable president. On Saturday we received the terrible news that the U.S. Army of the Atlantic Community had launched an air raid on the hospital aid department without a border in Kunduz, Afghanistan, with the latest reports that 23 died, 10 patients, and 13 workers. Reports of air attacks and wars are always terrible. We who have lived in peace as long as most of us remember find it difficult to imagine ourselves in the shadow of a conflict and even have to put ourselves in special positions in order to be able to identify with those who need to live in such horrors - if we succeed. We all know that aid organizations and social organizations such as doctors without borders are often the only assistance and only medical services available to the public in war - torn areas. Therefore, the more important it is to consider the privacy of such a conflicting operation. The bombs that rained on the Kunduz hospital will not be sucked back into the aircraft that threw them. Those who died in the attack will not be brought back to life. All you can do is do everything in our power to prevent such a recurrence. Iceland is a military country, but we're members of NATO and that's how we're responsible. I challenge the Icelandic government and the Allied representatives at the NATO Parliament to draw attention to this, to call for explanations, to protest, and to make clear the message that this sort of thing is simply not available. We look forward to hearing of more such events on our own.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-07-17.u20	President. Last night we broke out on contracts with the police, the orderlies and the SFR. Yesterday or early, negotiations of the so-called SEKK business that will be adopted in Iceland will also be made up of negotiations that will follow the way of what happens in the countries around us. This is not to be expected to be a negotiation in the countries around us because there is nothing comparable here to those countries. The road system here is not comparable to those countries. Today, inequities are increasing by day and before there is any way to blame for the storm clouds that all of us see in the nation's economic affairs, the executives must take up residence. They cannot constantly demand that employees receive 2.8%, but they themselves are on a heavenly reward and do not do what is necessary. The problem here is that there's too little pay in this country. There's been some correction, but the three groups I listed initially haven't got it. Now people are to be intimidated by the inflation and to blame all the employees. A respectable president. I object. The problem here is a low salary. They need to be corrected, and then we can proceed and adopt alternative methods of collective agreements that we have today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-07-17.u21	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 28/2015, change of XIII. Annex to the EEA Transmission Treaty, and enter the Convention of Airflying Officers from Third Land, as further stated in the proposal itself. The protocol contains detailed rules for third-land pilots as a third-land aerospace vehicle registered in a third country or in a Member State that has committed a third state of legal security monitoring and is used by an aerodynamic aeroplane from a third country of the Community, within or since. The European Air Safety Agency is authorized to issue clearances to pilots in third countries based on the Air Safety Specification and will be provided centrally for the EEA. Still, each country gives its own permission to fly within the relevant state or to fly within the same state, provided that there is already a source of the European Air Safety Agency. With law No. 76 of 9 July 2015, about a change in law No. 60/1998, through air travel, was created to improve before bringing in the Regulation under administrative instructions. As the decision made by the joint EEA committee required a legal adjustment in this country, it was adopted into the EEA Convention and taken under administrative notice. This resolution is submitted by law No. 55/1991, according to the General Assembly Assembly Assembly, it is recommended that the government's orders should be removed by resolution. Therefore, it is requested by the General's approval of the change in EEA contracts in the decision-making process so that the government may be removed in advance. The induction is expected to have a positive effect on management and to improve flight security. I suggest, more dignified President, after this discussion, the proposal will be referred to. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-07-17.u22	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 122/2015, about the change in XX. Annex to the EEA Convention on Environment, and enter the Commission's Directive on recovery of gas vapor in the fueling of motor vehicles at gas stations as further indicated in the proposal itself. The directive deals with new standard requirements for steam disposal at fuel stations to prevent increased emissions of non-efficient organics from inexhaustible fuels damage human health. Standards for minimal production of steam equipment and the test method requirements are set up in standards. The type changes older ones to the same subject in a way that points to above standards. Implementation of older ones on the same topic required changes in chemical law, No. 61/2013, this change was made by law No. 63/2015 which developed also improved prior to the implementation of this directive. As the decision made by the joint EEA committee required a legal adjustment in this country, it was adopted into the EEA Convention and taken under administrative notice. This resolution is submitted by law No. 55/1991, according to the General Assembly Assembly Assembly, it is recommended that the government's orders should be removed by resolution. Therefore, it is requested by the General's approval of the change in EEA contracts in the decision-making process so that the government may be removed in advance. I suggest, more dignified President, after this discussion, the proposal will be referred to. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-07-17.u23	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 143/2015, about the change in II. Annex to the EEA Convention and enter the contract of three vehicles regulations on two or three wheels and four wheels that are detailed in the proposal itself. The purpose of this Regulation is to strengthen the regularity of driving equipment, as well as to promote harmonisation in the development of automobiles. Further technical requirements and measures for the testing of vehicles are set out in this issue, their production and their marketing surveillance. The big change is that producers now have the opportunity to provide for their own testimony and the fulfillment of documents. In some cases, there will be failures to detect. As a result, the United States is made up of laws against such offenses in its own laws. The implementation of the Regulation calls for legal adjustments in the country and is assumed to be the highest. I. O.R., I.R., I.D., No. 50/1987, at the current council. The implementation of the Regulation is not expected to have a major impact on the environment. Because of the decision made by the joint EEA Committee that calls for legal adjustments in this country, it was taken on administrative notice and is therefore requested by the General for the change in EEA contracts in the decision to defuse the administrative court order. I suggest, more dignified President, after this discussion, the proposal will be referred to. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-07-17.u24	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 15/2015, change of II. Annex to the EEA Convention on technical regulations, standards, testing and certification, and entry of the Commission's Convention on Pharmacovigilance procedure detailed in the proposal itself. The conduct of the procedure requires the format, content and content of the basic pharmacovigilance system laid the basis for the earlier regulation of medicinal products intended for human use. Pharmacovigilance is the monitoring of the safety, efficacy and quality of the medicinal product in the post-marketing setting. Defined are minimal quality systems for performing the pharmacovigilance procedure. The minimum requirements for monitoring of data in the central database are then set out to record suspected adverse events. This Regulation is an important part of a new pharmacovigilance system already included in the Member States of the European Union and is aimed at improving the effectiveness of the pharmacovigilance system in the European Union. The Regulation requires the implementation of EU Regulation No. 1235/2010, which has already been recorded in the EEA Convention. Their induction required a change in medication, No. 93/1994, performed by law No. 52 of July 8, 2015, which also restores an improvement in the induction of the above type. As the decision made by the joint EEA committee required a legal adjustment in this country, it was adopted into the EEA Convention and taken under administrative notice. This resolution is submitted by law No. 55/1991, according to the General Assembly Assembly Assembly, it is recommended that the government's orders should be removed by resolution. Therefore, it is requested by the General's approval of the change in EEA contracts in the decision-making process so that the government may be removed in advance. I suggest, more dignified President, after this discussion, the proposal will be referred to. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-07-17.u25	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 117/2015, change of XX. The Annex to the EEA Convention on Environment, including the Convention of the European Parliament and the Council's Directive on the impacts established by the public or private bodies may have on the environment further developed in the proposal itself. The directive, among other things, changes the older definition of environmental assessments and the factors to be monitored for environmental impact. The directive aims to simplify management and to facilitate assessment without reducing existing environmental rights. It is then designed to strengthen decision-making and environmental protection and simple regulations. The implementation of the directive calls for legal adjustments in the region and is assumed to be the highest. Environment Minister will provide the bill for the legal adjustment of the law No. 106/2000, assessment of environmental impact, in current Parliament. As the decision made by the joint EEA calls for a legal adjustment in this country, it was taken under administrative notice. Therefore, it is requested by the General's approval of the change in EEA contracts in the decision-making process so that the government may be removed in advance. I suggest, more dignified President, after this discussion, the proposal will be referred to. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-07-17.u26	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 9/2015, change of II. Annex to the EEA Convention on technical regulations, regulations, testing and certification, and entering the contract of the Council of the European Parliament and the Council on the recognition and marketing monitoring of agricultural vehicles or forestry, as detailed in the proposal itself. The directive replaces older forms of the development of the tractor theory for agriculture or forestry and involves a new modeling method for these devices. By the Regulation, regulations are simplified with the view that there is no constant need to update existing technical legislation. Instead, the type applies to existing international standards and regulations that are available to the public without being published within the code of law. The implementation of the Regulation calls for legal adjustments in the country and is assumed to be the highest. I. O.R., I.R., I.D., No. 50/1987, at the current council. The implementation of the Regulation is not expected to have a major impact on the environment. As the decision made by the joint EEA calls for a legal adjustment in this country, it was taken under administrative notice. Therefore, it is requested by the General's approval of the change in EEA contracts in the decision-making process so that the government may be removed in advance. I suggest, more dignified President, after this discussion, the proposal will be referred to. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-07-17.u27	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 25/2015, change of II. Annex to the EEA Convention on technical regulations, standards, testing and certification, and entering the contract of the Commission's Commission's Commission's Commission's Commission's Commission's Commission's Commission's Commission's Commission's Commission on the traceability systems that are further presented in the proposal itself. The Commission's directive provides a tracking system for fireworks that is designed to increase the safety of users of fireworks and the public by clearly identifying manufacturers and immigrants of such products. The directive outlines the structure of the tracking system for the marking of fireworks products. The Commission further states that the implementation of an older model has already been adopted in the EEA Convention. Their introduction called for a change in weapons law, No. 16/1998, by law No. 77 from 9 July 2015 as a result of the initiation of the procedure under consideration. As the decision made by the joint EEA committee called for a shape-change here on land, it was adopted into the EEA Convention under administrative notice. This resolution is submitted by law No. 55/1991, according to the General Assembly Assembly Assembly, it is recommended that the government's orders should be removed by resolution. Therefore, it is requested by the General's approval of the change in EEA contracts in the decision-making process so that the government may be removed in advance. I suggest, more dignified President, after this discussion, the proposal will be referred to. Foreign Affairs.
