ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-73.u1	Borist has a letter from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs asking for deadlines to give a written answer to a letter on the spell. 908, on the cost of correcting the prices of insurance loans, from Sigríður Ingibjörg Ingadóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-73.u2	V.E.G. President. I recommend the Committee of General and Education Committee. The committee has discussed the matter and has contacted its members from the Home Office to review this matter. It is now being suggested that a request be made to delay the forced sale of an apartment facility in the situations where tolerance has applied for correcting real estate loans, awaiting the final result of the application either for the governor of the tax or a case entitled entitled to state taxpayer's decision. In the treatment of the Commission bill, it was noted that working on applications was much longer than originally expected, but the five applications were required. individuals are still unsolved by the government tax manager. At that time, some 200 individuals have reported their findings to the decision - making committee and the final outcome in those cases is not available. This change is made up of a requirement for postponement to be granted, to demonstrate that he has applied for correction but to await the results of the previous tax adviser. This is not appropriate if tolerance has received the results of the head of the tax and not approved of it. Two o'clock. A member of the Committee is taking notice. paritaprevir Heissson, Guððu Hannesson, Guðbjartur. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir, who has been warned, shows that they lack the resources the government has issued, such as the key bill, etc. And these are also counts. Senators need to reach out to groups outside, unable to apply for correction of the privatized mortgage loans. The committee proposes that the bill be accepted as unchanged. That's why the one here is writing. Councilmen Árnason Guðbjartur Hannesson, Linika Vilhjálmur Sævarsdóttir, Svandís Svavarsdóttir, Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir, Vilmim Ájölmnarsson, Guðður Hannezsson, in advance, and Birgitta Jónsdóttir, daughter of advance.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-27-73.u3	V.E.G. President. I took notice of this payment, but not because I would not agree that this case would be resolved. I will pay for its progress and will vote for it in addition. Still, there is reason to pause. We are repeatedly extending this case because it has been more difficult than expected to handle matters but also because many other matters have been considered in solutions to home debt problems have not yet been identified in the council. This morning, in an unsubstantiated question period, we discussed the key bill, the implementation of the bill adopted by paying for failure, i.e. received the cost of it. The action has gotten in the way, and there are other factors, in fact, no leases, etc. The precautionary tip is primarily indicated in this respect. Besides, we haven't had a clear answer about one thing that wasn't time for this process, is there any group that was going to be applying for, but has been left out for some reason and has not been determined whether or not he will be allowed to go along? This bill is entirely conditioned by the fact that the person has applications for correction and has formally completed it. I know of a person who applied through an accounting office or who was helped with it, but then it turns out that it was not done. I haven't received confirmation that it will be corrected. Of course, this is not easy, but it is sad if this is to prevent some party from working out or to get them out of the way if the correction had done so. This is also reflected in a law ahead of our Birgitta, in the opinion of the Committee in general, that it is important to be consistent and equal in matters that have not been concluded. We're asking that the rules be as general as any.
