ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u1	V.E.G. President. I'm really thinking about it after yesterday and, in fact, a lot of other jobs. A few of them. Instead of criticizing the methods or issues, members of the government take a firm and steady look at one another. While the senators play this game, there are several others. In the halls, members of the board of directors laugh scornfully at the words that have been spoken about certain individuals. This is a group that enjoys these activities together, and it seems that these are organized behaviors. This is an ugly game, and it is merely designed to hurt and demean others. While we discern how to walk, there is nothing that justifies speaking against one another. Such practices say more about those they engage in than about those to whom they use their words. This work would never have been done at work other than the General Assembly. Other areas of work would be people who did this and would not be called to the carpet and had their bag taken. Someone may now say: But that was no better during the last term. That's just no excuse. Sadly, for years I worked as a primary teacher, and in my work, you had to work on subjects and handle cases related to harassment. I never, never, never will, ever approve of harassment of any kind, and I think it's a very bad excuse to say: this is okay because somebody else did it once. I believe that the Council Board must sit down and see how we can improve this workplace as well as our relations here. Perhaps the only way we can call a human resources specialist or someone who has been involved in some form of harassment and who is working on some form of harassment to cooperate with us here. Until then, I'm asking all of you. Senators to examine themselves to see if there is anything in them that can be done better. I will certainly not leave mine behind in that matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u2	A respectable president. I'm gonna be on the same line as you are. paritaprevir Elsa Lára Arnardóttir and discuss the activities of the council. I have to admit that you don't open a media or show up at work, I showed up for one of three, four this morning, without people wondering how we are, I say to senators, get back to work. Here's the worst type of skin game, it's pointed out, as shown here in the opening talk, that it was practiced during the last term. I've also said it from this chair here before that there's a disgrace to the way it was. It's not gonna make things any better today. I feel, my dear friends in this hall, that hatred and anger continue to lead members of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u3	Don't be ridiculous.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u4	Yes, it is, it's just anger that crushes people, and I think that those who were here during the last term are filled with anger toward one another, and it makes a difference in the matter of Congress. [[Up front.]] I have to say right now, I think we all have to take this to ourselves and try to make things right in the house. The conduct of a dignified president of the council is also completely unscrupulous and unsurpassed. I don't know any better than that he's trying to do his full - time work. It is difficult when the objections are intense, and it is difficult to keep the angle straight. I trust in him, and none more, that he may continue to make peace at the council. I call for it from all sides, I'm not blaming one or any other people for it. It's always both to blame when there's two differences. I strongly emphasize to us that we show the nation that we are worthy of our place in this workplace and that we give it back to him that it is a decent thing to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u5	A respectable president. I would also like to discuss the activities of the council. I think it's disappointing to all of us how difficult it is to negotiate for the council. I don't think the president of the Senate would be upset if some insist on it and say that he could try more or do better. The president of the council was not born yesterday and knows exactly what peace belongs to him. I have to say, I'm not a basic school teacher or a high school teacher or anything like that, but I've been at my place of work, and someone's being harassed. It was accepted. But it is also so that if everyone comes up and says that someone is being harassed, people will begin to believe that someone is being harassed. I have not seen it here in this council hall, a respectable president, that one or no one is being harassed, for all of us have volunteered to be here at this council. We must expect our work to be criticized and the higher we are on the social ladder, the most natural thing in the world to be criticized. If they are harassed, people should get another job. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u6	V.E.G. President. I'd like to talk to you again about something I talked to you about a weekend ago, i.e. A new control raise for the Sensitive Bank. Among other things, the late bank manager says that this increase, in many ways, and the subsequent ones, are due to increased inflation. It seems to me that the Secret Bank is doing his utmost to create them with this rise, inflation. As far as I can see, they're detracting from an enterprise that is now taking on pay increases that are deserved. I wanted to quote an article by Gunnar Þór Gíslason, a director of economics that he wrote in the Morning newspaper on Thursday last week. It says, with permission of the highest power. President: This first growth increase increases the growth rate of enterprises by 5How7% and puts a big bar in the business of many companies. [...] Higher growth also reduces the impulse to reassign projects, which will inhibit economic growth in the near future and thus adversely affect the growth of money. It also says that the rise in driving growth is not a way to hold back personal consumption because most mortgage loans have fixed prices. So this does not affect them, and there are many other ways that you might better keep back from taking personal advantage than from maintaining growth. It seems somehow, Mr. President, that the SERVANT had no choice but to go to a series of shifts instead of using other methods, such as increasing the volume - related banks and affecting the development of serious savings, for example, to buy housing. Sadly, the lack of courage and failure of the Council Bank in this matter seems to be absolute.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u7	V.E.G. President. I asked a recent secretary of the state how it was possible to hand out prison punishment and special service to prisoners. I have recently spoken with people who are familiar with these matters and have suspected that things could go better. I'm still shocked by the minister's answers. This includes the fact that last year, an average of 383 days passed from the date of judgment to the start of penalties. A year and a half. However, it is unmistakably that no prison punishment can contribute to the improvement of a prisoner's counsel. It is vital that he take out his punishment as soon as possible after judgment. And a year after judgment, some have actually improved their ways and have even formed families but have pulled them out of it and put them in prison. What's in this? A minister's comments also state that according to a new study, less than 60% of prisoners suffer from substance problems and that about half of them had symptoms of attention deficit and hyperactivity. And how do we help these individuals cope with the drug problem, the attention deficit, hyperactivity, and other disorders and other mental disorders? The minister's answer indicates that the important and difficult task of two psychologists, two sociologists, one student counselor and two specialists in the treatment course of Little-Real. The two psychologists and the two sociologists were 600 of them. Is it humane toward people who often feel very bad and may even be ill, people we shut down and therefore cannot look for another with their problems? And how does it feel for these people to know that they're like this? Is this likely to contribute to the footing of prisoners in the community after penalties and delinquency? No, of course not. We have to secure the funds for these matters so that it can be handled well. Until we've fixed this, I suggest we totally control ourselves using the word "prison punishment" in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u8	Mr. President. I'm gonna start by talking about harassment. I think it's a violation of the term'salvation, 'cause the President of the Council has it,' and talking about harassment when people criticize members of the council at the assembly, it's reprisals of the term, because we know very many people who have a real pain to bind because they've been harassed. People who have worked and worked in elementary schools or high schools should know better than to make it my own. What I was going to draw attention to, however, and I encourage those in more parts and may have something more to do with it than we do in the smaller parts, that the work has been advertised as the study centre is supposed to have. As we know, they're trying to anti-employ the Institute of Education that's supposed to take over their roles. All of these work, at least ten, should be located here in the south. This was an attempt to transport Fish Room with a man and a mouse that failed. These are supposed to be five years old, and I'd like to ask if it's not an idea we should contribute to, for example. One of those jobs could be connected to the University of Akureyri, where they could be located. Not everything must be in the same place, a team can work together, we know what has been involved. I encourage the local community to speak up and encourage this to be brave, but the deadline expires June 29th. Of course, I encourage the majority of the people to discuss this with their minister, the Minister of Education, who has to do with this, to make sure that these jobs can be located to some extent in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u9	Mr. President. One of the biggest issues at this summer council is the mackerel and is really the subject that I think is the most important thing in us who are trying to negotiate the end of the council. The people in the country may not always be involved in what they say, and there have been 51 of them. signatures on thrift property.is where the President of Iceland is challenged to set up the case in a national bill if the fish resource is set aside for longer than one year. The changes that have been made on the job committee are now being made that are assigning collections to an indefinite period of time, just to the future. Actually, this is even more serious than the bill originally submitted by six years of age. Today, it is untimely, in the laws on the control of fishing, which, of course, have been highly critical of the community. On this basis, it is certainly unacceptable to accept such a thing. I'd like to call attention to a press release from the sources at this gathering of signatures. Although they can never represent 51 points. This text, of course, stands for a man. They say here at the end: ▪ It is in the palm of the hand to remove any doubt by putting in the bill clearly that the distribution of the panorama resources of macroil will be only one year at the same time. Therefore, the signature collection of thong share will continue until the result of the macrollar bill is seen. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to underscore it and encourage people to study these matters and put their name under them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u10	Mr. President. Many times I've adopted this business of savings. While there are many differences between us at the council, I'd say that all the political parties will be united in the wish to rebuild the savings system on the remainder of the funds that survived the collapse. But now I want to draw attention to what. According to members of Congress, over a few weeks, the three banks have lifted off their street and have set three of the largest savings. It began with the savings reserve in the Western Islands, AFL was taken next, and now, at the last weekend of the Safari Fund of Northern Europe. It's amazing to see the pattern. What distinguishes this scenario is that as soon as it brings investors either with domestic or foreign money and sees business opportunities in the savings, the big banks come and swallow them. And I'm asking, "Where's the Fed? Where's the League? The banks will receive them free, as we have seen in the reply of the highest. The secretary of finance for my inquiry regarding the Land Bank and the Western Bank of Savings, the Lands Bank is paid with him hundreds of millions in the form of overcrowded losses, tax losses. Besides, banks get the customers that come with them. The most important thing for the banks and the most important thing for us consumers is that the banks are pulling out potential rivals in the future. A savings bank would have become the only objection to the banks that, according to an overview of growth in the UN's last financial stability report, have the highest interest found in Europe. I ask: Is this the case, the suggestion and how it all grows, not something to be investigated by the Senate's economic and tax committee, if not the board and board, because it doesn't smell so good about how the banks have behaved? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u11	A respectable president. While men spend their time here in ganging serious things like bullying, it's happening in our society that 198 health professionals have quit their jobs because of a law recently committed to them, 167 of them are nurses. Is there someone here at the Council? No, no one's interested in it. We've invited the government over and over to discuss these matters with us, but it doesn't. There are long waiting lists in the medical system that need to be handled, and the governor of the Land Hospital told us yesterday that this will cost a substantial amount of money. Is anyone talking about it here? No, there's nothing to talk about here. Do people have any plans, or do they learn how to deal with this situation? No, no one is. They're not doing anything about it, they're not interested in it. We've had a conversation about this for the last three months, has anyone answered that call? No one has answered that call, neither the members of the government nor the government. This is a serious situation. Now, for the first time since June 10, people are meeting today, nurses, and the state. What kind of work are these? What kind of government do we have in this country that are driving our health system in an area that has such behavior toward the staff that sustains it? We have workers on a worldwide scale that can go wherever they want to go. And what do we do? So we treat it disrespectfully, don't talk to it for weeks and months, and then we put a law on it. That's how the government treats these people. A respectable president. I think people should pull over and start talking about things that matter, and stop minimizing those who have been harassed by calling them bullying when they are being criticized. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u12	V.E.G. President. I'd like to turn the workplace into my publicity today. We are all gathered here, generals. All of us were in office in April 2013. After each senator, there are people who believe in him and in what he has to say. That is a fact that we need to have respect for. I calculate that each of us is hereby guided by the benefits of winning a country. But this is not always obvious to those who monitor our work, and the people have some opinions about it. I have, too, but I am fully aware that I am not authorized to raise others or reveal to them about my actions and relationships. But I would like to share these thoughts with you that many things going on here in this hall I would never pass by in a classroom. It seems that somewhere, some have been assigned permission to go through most of the stuff that comes into their mind, without restraint, as it seems. I don't know where they can be given, and I don't want to get them. Contract search for Congress is now under way. There have been some comments, but it has always been clear that the complete package will be negotiated. It's not classified. Now our bosses will meet and try to resolve a matter. I wish them good luck and hope that their meeting will be successful. V.E.G. President. Again, I would like to make the words of the late late son Páll Skúlason to my final comment, with permission of a president: ▪ The point of improving the world is to deal with the corruption in themselves, to be a person is to try to improve himself.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u13	A respectable president. True, it is true. paritaprevir This was the speech spoken by the Egilsdóttir of Þórunn; she quoted Páll the Skúlason of Sahili at last in her speech. In fact, a person can be responsible for only himself in the work that we are privileged to do in this institution. I've been here for over six years, and I've had a regular crisis that has been difficult to solve. Yet, this has always been accomplished because men have been willing to sit down and talk together and respect one another's opinions. I have full faith that we will solve the present problem, although I have rarely seen it blacker than it is, so it is now just as it is. Nevertheless: The conversation must continue. But I don't agree with anyone who says this is a very bad picture of the council because I think people have long since stopped watching what's going on here. I'll have the privilege of telling people about mountains and fjording in my spare time, doing so in Western islands this weekend, and getting out of the middle of a hike. When I told people that I was going to work, they were asked: Well, is the council still active? Although it may not be forcible, I think a lot fewer people are watching what's going on here than people imagine. This does not change the fact that we have to complete Congress, and we need to realize that when we're negotiating about how things ended and how things have been done late at the council, we're always negotiating that matters will go through with as little discussion as possible. We here are among different individuals and groups of society, the kinse is to represent their viewpoints. So it is with great responsibility when a person agrees to go through without much discussion because that is what the work is all about. [[The president calls.]] We must respect that fact, a dignified president. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u14	A respectable president. When you hear something that makes the blood boil with anger, it can be better if it comes from someone you still respect. Well, I hope you're not sure about that, then, before you say anything, you're gonna calm down. The majority of the members of the body have been suggested here by individual senators that the prime minister of the country and the president of the council is being harassed. They will not be thoroughly discussed with those who endure them without tears falling sooner or later. As a result of childhood harassment, the feelings I don't know how to describe too honestly here when people pay the term mobbing in the way this has been done. That the council thinks they're being harassed tells me two things about them, i.e. if they were here to talk about it. 1st That they don't understand the concept of harassment. 2. That they do not understand the nature of their position, their privilege, and their authority. I'll keep talking about it for a second. Senators mentioned earlier and anyone who wants to talk about this, but I'm going to do it for a while. There are solutions to the problems we face here. This problem is hardly evident in the fact that except for the high General Assembly, there is a gate that people go through and suddenly become bad people. It can't be that way. The problem we have here is systematic, part of the rules we follow and the arrangements we work for. That is where we should try to find solutions rather than shame one another, whether it involves more or less - that we can do and do because we are all people. We're supposed to look at the system, we're supposed to look at the rules. How can we change the arrangement so that it is easier to resolve very difficult disputes? Again and again, I suggest that the way is more democracy, making it easier for the nation to call for national law on controversial matters, for the lesser part, and more ways. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u15	A respectable president. I want to agree with that with what. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Acquireson, how the big banks seek the savings and how they work without, apparently, the general role they play is the two kinds of surveillance. When the big banks swallow up the savings fund, it doesn't mean much to the SEC, either. The FEC declares that it agrees and doesn't see a reason for anything else, but in this process it is, of course, a conflict in a financial market and that everyone is being directed to the three big banks, plus that now one of the agreements became still between MP- Bank and Straums. The fusion is also approved by the FDA, so we're, and it's got to be all of us concerned, getting a bank system as unique as it was here in a collapse. It requires an opinion, and it requires that the F.O.P. go to a great deal of weight on this takeover because it is not a merger, and look at exactly what it is and why it could not be dealt with the wishes of domestic investors who wanted to take over, such as AFL on Siguts. There must be bells in this room, at least for us as sitting here in 2008, when the banking system collapsed; it appears that we are in the most unique banking system in the past. A respectable president. With all due respect, I'm starting to freak out.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u16	V.E.G. President. We are here at the Council recently rejoicing at the celebration of women's 100th election anniversary, but we can say that this year is also characterized by a women's revolution. Women are breaking the wall of silence and shame around sexual violence with an icon display, yellow and orange, on Facebook. Young women are taking the definition authority over their own bodies, with the Free the Nipple campaign, but most important, women in the Icelandic labour market are rising against sexual agreements. We see in BHM strike and Icelandic nurses' society that women no longer intend to accept the fact that they are rewarded on grounds of gender. In addition, in this hall it should be noted that paying women is strictly forbidden, under Icelandic law. Matthíasson, director of the Land Hospital, has noted that there has been no increase in serious incidents involving land hospitals between years in spite of strikes. He says that if someone has been hurt by the strikes, it might be hard to see, and he hopes that the damage will not be irreversible. However, the damage could be irreversible because of the laws given here, causing dozens and hundreds of women to quit their jobs and men, even though they are in much lower numbers in these large groups of women. It is noted in a fine article by María Ósk Gunnsteinsdóttir of Nurses, in the News magazine yesterday, that if nurses were to accept the offer they would remain on the table with a salary of 143/425% lower than the standard male class after four years of study. I certainly hope that the U.S. Convention Committee will be on the counter with the intention of destroying sexual pay so that the damage will not be irreversible from the government's legislation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u17	V.E.G. President. I'm not going to speak down to the public in a manner like that. Magnúsdóttir It's good to review why a mackerel is checked, or the record is now so true. That's because he's a shareholder for a year's Regulation. It is so that the common people are often misled by what is said here from this discourse, so you may be trying to correct it. You are now being assigned a macroil with a perfunctory year, and apart from that, there will be 2 of you. tons to sell to those who want to get laid in this article. It has been observed by the presidents of the signing work recently conducted in Iceland that the changes that have now been made in the macropolitan bill meet the demands and expectations that the best officials had toward the government. Why is this sharing phrase applied? It is put on because the agent of the Generals'commission indicated that the High Priests of the last government had violated his law. Hence, a mackerel must be shared in order to stop following the site of lawbreakers that had gone there. In the latter part of this year, likely there will be differences in the way people will conduct lawsuits against these same governments because of the actions of these same ministers. This is now the time for the mackerel to follow off this path, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u18	Mr. President. It is difficult to live up to such humiliation, as it did when it happened. paritaprevir Sæmundsson speaks at the end of the conference's discussion in such a way that I was speaking to the public in the country when I discuss matters at the top of society and review them. Here, a person who believes he can afford to speak like the one who has the power and the presumptuousness; he explains to the public how he feels about the long - term occurrence of a mackerel. There is no difference that by sharing mackerel, as this mackerel bill appears, macroil is being grouped for a long time. It has a Regulation to one year at a time, but it has a greeting. But on the macrollar bill we argue about, we are sharing in the long run, and that is the truth of the matter. [[The president calls.]] I don't like the use of the General Assembly chair to belittle other senators to the public, as it were. A senator does.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u19	V.E.G. President. I come up here to wish for the highest. The president and the Presidency Committee of Meetings for the indignities presented here for organized harassment by certain members of Congress, but not even one by name. A senator has been so tasteless as to impress another man. A senator personally wants to talk down to people. I'd like a prime committee to review this case, to see if it's true, because it's a case of silence, it's a pain in the ass, tops. President, to be expected to present some form of harassment to the grammatical criticism of the minor part of the council. [[Up front.]] I think we need to get into this. If this is the case with harassment, it might as well come up onto the surface, for the law is that it should not be tolerated.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u20	A respectable president. I must make comments when a senator who is on the 15th end of the conference's book on the subject points his words in a small way to another senator without her bed being turned upside down. It's an intolerable, respectable president. I wish to be examined specifically, and to be reminded of the good order that should be natural to be known and to be well aware, the last time I knew and should know the basic principles of these customs that we would like to perform within the council. But it seems that those in attendance are so ill - mannered that self - exaltation and that I do not say no to leaders that it has become so, in fact, that they are above all the usual manners around here. Then they come here crying at one another and allow themselves, this company of power in Iceland, to call it harassment. [[The president calls.]] Call harassment, as serious as it is, a grave case of harassment, when the opposition to the government brings its natural resistance and its natural criticism of power and superiority. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u21	Mr. President. I noticed earlier in the winter that a member of the council was left green, talking about the whale. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur - fearing son of Thor Þór Þórðarson was in charge of the council, but he did not give Guðlaugur Þór the opportunity to answer. It is common courtesy if you are talking about another person or have some indignities toward him to give a man a chance to answer, it's just common courtesy. Well, Guðlaugur Þór came up here under this angry team. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u22	The Senator should give the second column. Senators, full name.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u23	Hv. paritaprevir God-awful Þór Þórðarson came up here furiously and complained about this, and Svandís Svavarsdóttir. A councilman left green, got up in a chair and apologized, said, "Yes, of course we have to watch out for this in the council. I've had this conversation with Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir, too. The party of Independence Party. She said it wasn't her policy to disrespect this rule. So it seems to be a rule, a general rule in the community, something traditionally held at a council, and perhaps just a good thing. The senators of the forward party are worth it, too. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u24	V.E.G. President. My comments here can be taken into account in the context of a speech given here. The senator I quoted earlier, and I suggest that if men feel that I've overstepped in this case, we'll be sitting over the print on this speech, and then it will be revealed that what I said was perfectly normal. I thank you for many efforts to teach me manners that came from various sources. I'm sure I'll take it to the extent that the person is capable of having such a fixed patch and will make sure that he doesn't go ahead, but they will. Councilmen here have made the most urgent efforts to criticize me for this. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u25	Don't you care where good things come from?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u26	A respectable president. Well, it seems to me that this is going to be the case if I get the last thing I want to do. A speaker right. I'd like to mention that here we often have a discussion about the President's conference board, and so on, I want to rephrase the idea that I have often brought up, which is that we will discuss it as a special subject with full speech time, with answers, and so on because I feel it is fully needed. We often complain about how much we use these teams. The truth is, the Congress itself, the way it works, needs discussion, it's not that people come up here just because people are so mean and boring. There's a clear disagreement on how to manage the work here, and I'm sure we'll talk about it honestly, and hopefully we'll have more than one minute at a time. Finally, I just want to say that I believe that. A senator who spoke of mobbing earlier spoke out of humility and sincerity. I have a lot of respect for them. A senator, but I think it is important that we observe this word as a very serious word that we should not use about the rulers of the nation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u27	V.E.G. President. I come up here to say that if I went too far and crossed the line in my speech in the past about the activities of the council, I'd like to apologize for my words. It was not my intention to report harassment to those who have suffered because I know it quite well myself. The atmosphere here at the councilroom in the past few days has been really difficult, and I find it really wrong when I see and listen to the council world making little fun of other people, and a lot of people laugh and agree with it. I may have taken too much into my mouth, and if so, I'd like to apologize for that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u28	A respectable president. There are certain things that are relevant to the unregistered rules of the Assembly Hall, such as that men do not act in the frontal or post office when they come in here and deliver their virgin talks. Similarly, when they do not have the opportunity to give an answer, as happened here under these circumstances, they do not receive material or political criticism into their political opponents in a chamber. These two points should be a reason. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson is taking a special look.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u29	V.E.G. President. I don't necessarily come up to complain about the conference board but it seems like this day is about to start like most of us just recently at this game here in the Senate meeting board of presidents. There was an open house here on Saturday, which was really fun and went well and it was nice to find what a good spirit there was in the house. I sat here in a side room and talked to one of the council officials, and we were discussing how the situation had been here recently. Then she brought me the most excellent suggestion, that I thought, to the highest. The Speaker should begin every assembly at a song, that we should sing one song together before we began a meeting. I think it's a great idea. Then we should consider five minutes in silence. I can assure you that it would be a charm, and maybe things would be better here, and we could invite people to a good assembly. Schools in the United States have been tried, pondered for 15 minutes in the most difficult schools of Los Angeles, and it worked. They're with the best today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u30	V.E.G. President. The man standing here is a weak man. He makes mistakes. He often says things that are thoughtless, sometimes rashly, sometimes things that he sees behind, but that man is not there for him to take polite guidance from his mouth. In this chair, a senator should call his opponents bald, reptiles, and so forth. [[Up front.]] That's why I'm sorry for the politeness of their conversation. Senator, please.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u31	President. I have to make a note of the fact that the president's invitation to his appointment is at hand. 14 and haven't stopped attending meetings until that meeting was over. We didn't get lectures that the President couldn't make it to the meeting. I don't think it's a good work ethic. How wise it would have been to have simply a meeting until this chairman's meeting was over! Then I would like to say, as a parent of a child who has been harassed, that I have no comment to describe how shocked I am about the use of this word for office and government. I want people to think only about the real victims of harassment before they use that word in this context at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u32	For this reason, the president would say that he had intended to retire immediately after the council but was not too busy. A senator immediately asked for the word after the discussion about the President's conference board, and the president, of course, had to do so. Then this word came out of a man, a man, and it has been spoken here by 15 in the first century.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u33	A respectable president. I wish for it. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson comes to the conference room and reads from the council speeches where I have called men in this hall a reptile. My wish is: Hv. paritaprevir Sæmundsson will come in here and show me where and who I've used this word. Of course I know I haven't said anything like that. A senator himself knows. Therefore, he should be a man greater and let his final talk fall under the category he started on earlier, i.e. a word that he says unappreciated, and apologizes because I have not used this word here, and it is something to eat.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u34	Now the president hopes that this discussion will soon be concluded so that there can be a pause in order to hold a meeting of the officers whom the president had hoped might begin at the time. 14th
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u35	A respectable president. The president would have been in the palm of the track to tap the bell at the time. 14 and pause at the conference, regardless of the condition of the Senate Hall. Now, however, we have been waiting for 20 minutes like bad things in the Presidency Room, and I believe that most naturally the president will schedule a new appointment and invite us back to the meeting. Now we're all out and south because we had no invitation to change for a while.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u36	The president will recess at this meeting until the end of the week. 15 Congrats regret that he has done what is always done. Councilmen ask for the word for President's conference board, that he have dealt with it. Clearly, it is not possible to make anyone like him well.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u37	The President has received the following program proposals and the following letters: ▪ We signed it, making our suggestion in line with 1st. 77st. Conventional protocol that the next meeting will be as follows: 1st The job of the Senate. 2. The situation in the labour market, the oral report of the prime minister. 3. Special discussion of insurance. A verbal vendetta, Sigríður Ingadóttir, answers to the question of prime minister, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson. 4. Special discussion of planned tax changes and balance in the community. Painting is Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, and to answer, the minister of finance and economics is Bjarni Benediktsson. 5. Specific patient safety reports following the number of healthcare professionals reported. An apocalyptic, by Jón Þór Ólafsson, to counter this issue, will be the minister of health, Kristján Þór Júlíusson. We would like this proposal to be presented for release in accordance with the above terms of engagement. Under this letter, Katrín Júlíusdóttir, Jón Þór Ólafsson, and Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir. This proposal will be introduced at the beginning of the next meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u38	It has certainly been a special day and interesting to pick up a discussion here at nine o'clock in the evening. We had had quite a discussion on this subject, yesterday came the highest. Secretary of education in a pita and discussed certain issues that involved it and explained things, including It can be understood that schools in advanced music will continue at least far and wide in certain places. But in view of the discussion about high school and their status, I now have a problem with myself. The person I came from work and had been very busy in the relationship that was said to be a misunderstanding in times of trial. I'm worried that this won't stay, and here will be one music school in the national capital area, not necessarily state-crowding in a personal sense, may as well be the private advance of state, which should be received as a minister mentioned by seniors and those who intend to engage in music even as a professional. But there are many students who are learning music in high school. I have made a comment and have been concerned about the contribution made by a local branch partner. So I didn't feel that there was any particular answer yesterday. Of course, the rural communities took this over to them, certainly doing so in accordance with the 2011 agreement, and putting into it a reserve of housing. I come from a community where I'm going to sell a considerable amount of apartments. It is also in the West and beyond, and the millions of loans that the fund can give up are important to the contrast between sales prices and the greedy loans that are now not present. The rural communities received a letter by the end of May 21, of which they are told that the funds were removed. I know that the European Union is indeed an entire organization for rural society and may not always be able to speak for each country at any time, but when you come from a rural society where each dollar counts and the population is not very concerned, you worry about it. Among other things, Dalíkíkjörður and others have booked information on how to ensure the continuation of this project. There's actually been nothing other than what we've received from the Department of Social Affairs and Health at the Department of State and Education Committee on the other hand and from the Union. They just think it's more important than the other job. Then I say that this is, of course, the main problem of the concert schools in the capital area because the city of Reykjavík has decided to interpret the agreement differently from the rural areas. That's where I feel the country is paying for it. It is currently taking 30 million at least twice to fill this agreement. Of course, I criticized it and asked a minister yesterday about it because there are billions of dollars now being added to the budget because the government decides on roads, infrastructures, and so on. Here we are referring to a small amount of money in that context. Why can't the government just take it and continue holding up housing funds? A respectable president. I'm here for a second speech and I don't have much time, but this is something I would have wanted to get an answer to, at least ... fromtheconnection. We were not told how the committee saw to it that these issues would be solved by rural communities to the future, which are being brought under attack on the price of living and the like. This is a case for us on the Committee because it's important to the schools. [[The president calls.]] That's why we're here, but it's not because we really want to, we would've wanted the case to have been resolved in a different way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u39	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. This fine talk, of course, was presented by a member of the body of elders. A senator on the board. First, I want to thank the senator for his cooperation on the Committee because a traveling overseer was willing to thank for the fine cooperation the case was recommended. I wanted to ask you what. A member of Parliament, because at the council, representatives of various classes are at the same time in the city of Reykjavík, there are doing a majority of the work: How have they viewed themselves here during the discussion on the subject of music school? It has crystal become part of our work on a full - time board for many years, or the two years we've sat together on the World General Committee, that it is the city of Reykjavík alone that understands this agreement in a completely different way than any other community in Iceland, quite different from anyone else who was behind it. We have received descriptions of the position of the committee as to how people feel about the stand taken by the city of Reykjavík. Know what I'm sayin'? A member of the Parliament explained to the other members why the city of Reykjavík handles matters in this way so that at the council we need to be making a case like this? The reason is simply that Reykjavíkurburg has interpreted this agreement in a way other than other rural areas in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u40	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. In itself, I do not know why members of the council who are now involved in the mayor, rather than in previous comments on issues discussed at the council at one time. Regarding the fact that the General Committee now makes this issue clear, I don't think that there is a lack of communication between state and rural society or anything like that, that is primarily that a minister did not solve the situation at the right time. Of course, doing so was in his power. But I agree with what you're saying. Senator. My category of participation in the majority of the work in Reykjavík now and has chosen to interpret the agreement differently, those in both power, I think, more part and less have done so, and we have not been able to understand this differently. It was stated in the case of the former minister of education yesterday in contrast to the current education minister that they understood the same thing, i.e. The bottom line, the basis. I agree with that understanding, and that's why I've said that I think the conversation needs to take place. We could have asked those who feel that they can answer for why the city officials of all the major categories now understand such things. We can also wish for them to answer the educational committee and, of course, have received some of them. Above all, it is the Union of Icelandic rural society that will represent every member of the country and say this and take this position. That's what I don't like because Reykjavík City alone chooses to interpret in this way. I certainly wanted the relationship to say: The small rural communities out in the country that need the reserve should enjoy the doubt and not the interpretation of the city of Reykjavík alone.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u41	V.E.G. President. That was an excellent answer, but we know exactly why this case is here and why we are offering it. It is simply because the large knot in which the matter is not able to be solved. The basis for that knot is different interpretations of this agreement. I'm completely and completely incomprehensible why one person can have a whole different interpretation of the agreement than any other person involved, so we're stuck with the issue that's in such a state that we have to solve it in this way. This is not a solution to the matter but a temporary solution that will last only a few months, which, of course, is not exemplary. Nevertheless, all of us on the committee agree that there is nothing more to do than to be on this matter here. Therefore, we do this and hope that there will be a highway march in the council. My question was, would any of these classes have come up here and explain to us why Reykjavík's interpretation is this way? As I understood why. No senator has come up and answered that question.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u42	Mr. President. No, no one's representing Reykjavíkurburg or the people who represent the government in Reykjavík, have come and explain this to us, and it can be very well done, as it were. A senator knows that we do not necessarily agree with the interpretation of our fellow members in rural governments wherever the country is at any time. As I told you before, and I think it's very important, the Union of the Icelandic rural states is an employee of this matter. It's the relationship that goes with the agency, and I feel that the relationship is taking sides in the largest community, and I'm not taking the less late rural communities, and I need the less than one dollar and the millions, for example, the reserve that I made up of the publicity in my speech needs to be enjoyed as a major topic. Indeed, I am moved by music schools in the capital area and want them to continue their ministry, as it were. I am one of those who consider the cultural background of music and music to be very important and who need much more support than perhaps it is. However, the understanding that Reykjavíkurburg seems to agree, that the State has absolutely meant to pay for higher education, is not according to my interpretation. A senator arguing. One member of the council showed that it was a shit turn-off with a full-of-the-art Board of Education to deliver this case. I may not take that word into my mouth, but we agree that we would have preferred this cooperation to have had a certain success ending, whether in the form of some sort of agreement, such as this one or anyone else, so we wouldn't have to do it. We certainly hope that a year or several months later, we do not have to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u43	Mr. President. Listening to what was happening was touching. Conventiones in reply earlier bring praise and compliments to one another. I'd like to state that I agree with both of them. I believe that it is a generous and generous act on the part of the committee to stand together to deliver this issue as a matter of course. The head of the committee was right in saying that it was just reding to a few months. Isn't that right for me to the highest? A minister has had two years to solve the matter? The differences between Reykjavíkurburg and the State were immediately evident on spring days of 2013. The minister has had two years and hasn't solved it yet. More importantly, he came here to submit his policies on the wishes and demand of the senators, and it was informative. V.E.G. One minister said that he had high hopes of providing a bill that published his policy on music issues next fall. It turned out that a team of workers is working at a job that works on certain ideas as the highest level. A minister described. I'll think about it before then. paritaprevir At the end of his speech, Bjarkey's Gunnarsdóttir arrived. A minister when I asked him about these matters that there were also other ideas being discussed. Then I'd like to ask. A senator who has been here for some time: In view of this and the dose of the minister, the vague ideas he seems to have, and the loose, that there is no hope for a higher power. Will a minister be ready for the bill in the fall? Isn't it true, then, that these problems will continue for the next year? How's it feel? A senator thought that he and others may need to bring back a new bill? Then again I can rejoice to hear it. Housewives thank each other for their efforts to provide the poor minister. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u44	Mr. President. You know, people are crazy, they hear me, they come to people like this in the middle of the night. True, we may have to hope in our heart that, in just a short time, the minister may be able to implement these vague ideas, and the task force is at work. Now I don't know, and I don't remember a Minister missing when this group was due, I don't think that it did, the time has come. It may be one of the things we could do in the General and Education Committee to promote the proposal for a study and future development. The minister extended the natural agreement on this issue until the end of 2014 and has done little in itself. This dispute with the city of Reykjavík may have been so difficult that it could not have been solved. But I think it's, or it's my opinion that the Minister and the Ministry pushed it off, and it somehow waited until suddenly it had to be handled, and then it was done in this way. But the Minister's policy for the conservatory, of course, I'm concerned about that, as I said earlier. Although he certainly relieved them yesterday by saying that students could learn about the country, I felt that he sometimes spoke at a cross, and that's why I would like to see those ideas soon. I think we're here without talking about each other, me and what. The head of the General Commission may call on the committee to suggest that the proposals of the staff would be there within a reasonable period of time so that we would not have to face this again.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u45	Mr. President. I can assure you what. A senator says there's no evening wolf in me. Now, however, the time of the day that I believe is the best, and I usually feel that the council is becoming more clear, the night. Hv. A senator rightly said that it would be a good idea to ask the minister about when the staff will complete their duties. You see, that was not the case at the highest level. Minister. I noticed that. He said that he hoped that this could happen so that the bill would appear on autumn days and would be presented as one of the first cases of the government during a new council. One of the very things that came up in the case of the highest. However, a minister was saying that a new income exchange was needed at the same time. We know it now, me and him. paritaprevir Bjarkey Gunnarsdóttir. It's not something that humans just shake out of memory. In this regard, it is often difficult to reach conclusions in such a matter. I believe it is absolutely impossible that a decision can be reached before e.g. The Ministry of finance can earn its assessment that needs to follow the bill as the bill of directorship when it comes to the council. So I believe it's the highest. A minister spoke out of limited experience there. I don't think he has a good will. What this is all about is the highest. Minister has not done his homework. The thing is, the whole thing is upset, and the redness we're talking about here is just how you describe it. Chairman of the Commission, Brá of Konráðsdóttir, only for a few months. What happens then? What will happen in the future? The model at the highest. A minister drew up was beautiful, in effect about a school of music in Reykjavík, central, at a university. What does what? A senator that will cost you? And he thinks it's going well for the highest. A minister who has generally come out of his fight with the government cutting committee to set it up there? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I seriously doubt it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u46	Mr. President. In fact, we are in a state of confusion and at the height of our situation. A minister has not, and he was not prepared to give clear answers in any other way than to bring a bill in the fall. It's like I said before maybe on the General and Education Committee, and because the Chairman sits here, she hears our viewpoint, at least, pushing after it. I know she doesn't like it any more, but I'm standing in this situation again. As I said before, none of us on the committee were inclined to have to move this because we certainly wanted the minister to have solved this case. What I've been worried about, and there's been an answer and an explanation for it, that there's no representative from the music schools in this committee. I've felt that it was a reason. Despite this agreement on how state and group union work, it is a great interest in the music field, and I would have thought it would be more beneficial to have someone in it from the music schools. There's been a feeding program that doesn't have to be because it's a workaholic, like a wrangling. A senator mentioned, regarding the switch between the state and the local community regarding this group of litigation. But at times it is necessary to enter the academic or professional perspective. This comes primarily from the one on machines, i.e. Those who are to care for it, as it were, represent the music schools. I would have liked to see them on the committee, because I believe the results will be best if those people who then have to work on the agreement made by the parties. Exactly as I said with the 30 million or 60 that they'll be here on a reserve of housing, that if the rural communities had fulfilled their respective roles, they'd leave the relationship to themselves, they'd have done a better job. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u47	A respectable president. First, I want to thank the Committee for taking the initiative to present this matter. At the same time, you have to criticize the fact that in two years the minister has not arranged matters so that things will come in different ways and that they will also come in as part of a vision in the seminar. I must say exactly as it is, a respectable president, that it is far too much of this government to bring her late and ill-mannerly into the council, which in this case is causing the committee to move the case so that the Minister doesn't have to handle it through the council. The bill is distributed on June 9, and the work plan ended on May 30. This is one example of so many in our view of an enormous layer of work and an overwhelming slowness in these projects. As mentioned in the talks and in the debates below. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, had a bill in the Ministry, which was presented on the spring day of 2013 for the overall vision in the litigation and future arrangements, so it was not as if someone came to the empty cabin. In addition, this case is based on an agreement made in 2011 between the then government and rural society, where the State brought in 250 new million and then the rural communities brought 230. What we may need to consider, too, is that we are discussing matters that we could have done so much better. They could have taken a better time, and they would have done so in a much clearer way, bringing it here as part of a complete package and a vision, so to speak. A respectable president. In that work all together, you also need to wonder, " Why does the State not simply care for this higher education as well as for other things? ' Since the State has high school on its own custody, it would be difficult to understand that the State will also conduct this advanced education as well as that of others. It looks like you're getting out of paying for it, and you're letting the locals do it through the Slurpee Fund of rural society. I would've wanted us to talk about these things, but the Minister doesn't have much chance of doing that. It's the same with this case as with others, e.g. changes in high school - who can access it? The discussion of university unity is not held in this hall, it is conducted somewhere else. We're here to see that policy change through budget and other factors like that. V.E.G. The Minister of Education has to start coming into this room and have a conversation about the big lines in the human race. That is also true of this matter. But this is never done. For example, people today tend to avoid the fact that each committee is making this issue, and then, of course, they do not have to answer for the reasons why these two years have not been better to work with a vision of the future. There is no law on music. Nothing has been seen in the two years that the current government has sat, as I said, despite the introduction of a bill on the Internet in the spring of 2013. This has been criticized. Perhaps it would be good to hear from someone who knows better so that it was criticized that people are dealing with points that do not really exist, i.e. the so-called phase 4. There is no syllabus, and this level has not yet been formally established, although we are here to discuss it. Something else I wondered about, and what may be new in this is the financing from the housing reserve. If we look at the role of a reserve housing fund on the health Ministry website, it says that his establishment had provided reserves for extra loans and his work was moved to a reserve housing system. It is intended to provide management contributions for rural society due to the sliding of social renters or long-term residences. He is also aimed at providing contributions to rural society on the market trade of public property and on the basis of insurance companies due to structural defects and the like. If you're ready to take 30 million from there and go to the music school, I wonder, " What has become the part of this fund? ' When you read this and find out what the fund's work was, they've been the least focused on it, as was also a good point. paritaprevir Here, Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, a number of areas in the country that are so - called defensive areas of a considerable amount of empty housing from which considerable deportation has been made. These areas especially need these donations, defensive areas, and the country in which they live. So you ask yourself: " When a person decides to transfer money from a reserve budget to this assignment, what happens to him? Is his work done? Don't these donations need any more? I can't hear any better than I can tell. Someone may come and correct me because I can't hear better than the role of this fund is still a lot. Does that mean the fund's not going to cover the money? Though the project is good, and we support it and it all matters, we must be careful that something else is not working out, as may be the case. A respectable president. As we have seen, this is an important matter, although I criticize certain aspects of the setting and how it came in here, as well as a lack of perspective and perspective. It's a good thing, and we know it's important. Music studies in every rural community are extremely important, and especially in smaller rural areas where this is, as has been shown in the case of other members of Congress, often the heart of their community, i.e. The study of music and the life of music. Therefore, it is important that we be well cared for. That is exactly why we must call for a clear view of the future, for which things are clearly settled in a law of law that takes full control of them, and for the long - term safety and safety of the funding that we see before people are out of possession at the last minute because they were good - for - nothing and did not take care to complete matters as we see here. We don't care about the music program, so we call the senators to it, and we criticize that in the two years since the introduction of the case, they did not guarantee it, and they worked better. A respectable president. I'm not gonna keep this further, but we'll keep calling after this conversation. I think it's the best. The Minister of Education needs to start coming to the council and discuss with us more frequently where education is taking place in general. We talked about it here before Christmas that there was a change in policy through the council when we were finishing the budget. In terms of high school in the country, the Minister of Education went along with it, and we've never had a conversation or a vision of it. The minister came here yesterday, and I'm glad he came and tried to describe how he saw the future in his study. He described ideas that were excellent, but they are enormously large and will cost a considerable amount of money. I don't think it's too much later that he starts calling for a conversation with politicians and also the musicians themselves about the ways this is going to be and how to do it. It's like the next thing he's been able to get into having some kind of conversation about future mice, so to speak, on academic matters - it's appropriate to call it a future mouse in this matter. I think the Minister owes us a debt to come here and talk to us about the big lines and strengthens our conversation here. There's no way to bring big financial changes or to come here in two years of inactivity and ask the committee to deliver such important matters because humans don't have the time. It's not working. We must show great dissatisfaction to the minister at the same time as we begin to deliver this matter and follow it through here in order to give loyal support to the music life we know in the land and study there is the foundation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u48	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. In fact, now the senator is also a former financial minister, so I would like to ask her if that is not exactly where this case is from, i.e. The troublemaker's approach to finding the committee to deliver a case he should actually deliver, which is in the pursuit of the financial problems of the music schools and all the problems of the Independence Party on the matter of the music schools for the past two years simply because a minister of education could not priorize the money or take money from the fund to the part that needs to be done in the music program. He may have lacked the power or support to fulfill the plans that the senator described to be excellent. We have, of course, observed repeatedly during the council that the head of the budget board is at the head of the committee. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir and who. paritaprevir Gulsome Þór Þórðarson, has not directly paid the way of a minister of education by means of funding at the council. Isn't that really what creates such an emergency in the music schools, i.e. The divisions in this body of government, and even if the Minister of Education wants to do something in this, doesn't he get it, neither for his party members, nor for his colleagues, because he simply lacks money?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u49	A respectable president. This could well be part of the explanation, for when such a matter is taken up by a committee, it does not need a financial cost, and therefore it does not have to go through that filter. It is easier to bring it into the council, ending a sympathetic case, which I think we all agree that is extremely important. But I don't have the right to let the minister go so easily because he's had two years to handle these matters, and he hasn't used them. We did not hear any of this until the project was completed and the council was due to be completed. They'd brought everything into a fire and ajoke and a real trouble with this. Of course, they know that we have no interest in completing a council and leaving the music schools in the country in trouble. As a result, we run for the farm. I have no doubt that part of the reason is to take the easy way. The minister will also escape the need to have some serious business with us while moving the matter through the vision, even though he was slightly involved here yesterday and discussing the matter. You also escape expensive food. This does not change the fact, however, that two years are fully enough for humans to at least demonstrate the cards. The secretary has not done so. There has been no knowledge of where this group of subjects is heading. I believe either the Minister has forgotten, don't take care of it or what to say? Someone is the reason we have this case here. I think it would often be better if the council had it in their power to handle important matters rather than that of the Ministers. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u50	A respectable president. I agree with what. Of course, when the government stands up in such a way that there is an emergency in the music schools and the Ministry of Education has been fired on for two years and deadlines for this council, it is important that the government field run under the pressure and be responsible to ensure that the Council of the United States provides minimum financial value to this matter, in the first severe occurrence of this important study that matters thousands and thousands of children in this country. I'm asking the senator about the arrangement to seek funds that are actually in charge of another field ministry, a department that has also had a fairly difficult time applying financial resources to the tasks that men have had in mind in it, i.e. Social and housing services, and especially for the housing matters where you actually thought it was a lack of money, but not exactly a small amount of money to pick up for other projects. Doesn't the senator think it's a little sheepish to be taken into the housing business and taken from there to solve this problem? Only about what was mentioned, that the Minister of Education was busy trying to make fundamental changes in the education system without bringing them into the council. The senator's concern is that he is tempted to try it too through the study of music, i.e. will there make some fundamental changes without bringing them into the council and presenting them there?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u51	First only about the timing of the production. This issue was distributed after the work programme was canceled. I reviewed in my speech that June 9, because the minister had slept on his guard. That's why we do it this way. We are kind and obliged to do so, but the problem is that this applies to so many other matters. They're coming in late on such big issues as the stable tax, the stability conditions, and the housing. A contingency plan came into the council on May 30. It's this big, fundamental thing that's coming all too late in here. That is why we have so much trouble in the council organization, but we also have no idea what they want to do. It is good, then, when the committees take action as they are being done today. I'm glad that the committee agreed to make sure that we didn't take vacations with the music school out of nowhere. Once again, I have to criticize the fact that these two years have not been better. With the reserve of housing, I also went over it in my speech. I have not seen it, nor have I confirmed that his role is complete or that he can see from these 30 million. Given his role, I see no better than that in areas where we are in a certain country, where much housing is empty and we look up at considerable evacuation, the men of this money need to be. I've never seen anything, and no one's ever stood here and told us that this reserve of housing is unnecessary. I would've wanted an explanation for this. I think the government should have made it differently, but that's how we do it now. [[The president calls.]] We will demand an explanation for this. [[The president calls.]] In terms of big things, it's absolutely clear that we'll be observing what the Ministry of Education will do at any school in the near future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u52	President. I'd like to stay a little longer with a reserve of housing. I agree with the importance of going into this matter, and I think it is very important that we make sure that the schools of music are not really to be unworked because of the Minister, and it is unacceptable to give such an important part in Icelandic culture and educational environment. On the other hand, I'm very thinking about this administration. One thing is that the committee is forced to deliver the case because it is late and also because it is a mess in the outback so many ways, but it is the only thing that is to move money within the budget to save for a particular corner and a visible problem. Then you wonder: " What part does such a decision have to be fulfilled? For example, could we imagine that the point on unforeseen expenses was something that could be used for such a scene regarding the music school? Could you cancel some ministerial vehicle? Or would it be possible to think that this feature would be used by the Green economy, now used for various purposes? What I'm worried about is that on the other hand, we have a bill on public financial matters, where the better and more disciplined management of government funds and, on the other hand, such a random move of public funds, which is actually brought up by the professional committee, which is only part of the provision process, i.e. The music school side, not the housing side. [[The president calls.]] A man thinks about it, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u53	Mr. President. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator came to the very heart of the issue when she said that it was being saved at a corner of a passing problem. That's exactly what we're dealing with. This was totally predictable, but there was nothing humans could do about it. They let it down until it was out of control, the commission takes over and then things like this happen, somehow people have to save money on it, and the government decides to do it this way. I don't think it's unusual that money is moved in this way between recruitment practices, it's more within man - made schemes. Of course, there are examples of this, though some examples, but that is just a matter of decision. The oppressive management of state funds, says so. Senator. Yes, of course we're all going there, but there's one thing I don't understand in this case. If we look past these 30 million people who come from a reserve of housing and say what's right, this kind of thing can happen, and we just have to deal with it, and we agree to do this. How could it be that from the spring 2013 onward, there was a bill that contains a comprehensive music course, but when it comes to music courses, people did nothing in it for two years, nor did they pay for this contract and finance the music program, but they bring it all into the council completely on the final meters, and they go into a lot of financing problems at the music schools? I'm extremely worried about this approach in general. [[The president calls.]] It seems, when it comes to this government, that it is only very difficult for humans to examine and follow a picture.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u54	President. Happily, in the second half of this election season, you begin to watch what was supposed to be done and put your arms around it. V.E.G. The Minister of Education and Culture has had a full reexamination of music in Iceland in her Senate list, not just once, but twice. Now we're sailing into the third affairs of Congress in the fall, and still we don't have the complete vision of the Minister, all we hear are rumours. Sadly, as with high school, we need to rely on the background of rumors and on policies that occur more often than at any given time. It's unacceptable. It's totally unacceptable. One thing is that it's not good management, but it's also not good politics because policies are closed and inaccessible. President. It has been reported that the Department of Social Affairs assumes that the exact amount of money, i.e. The 30 million for housing, in accordance with a new housing system, have been identified by the General Information and Education Committee. Then, of course, questions arise about the possibility of improving the reserve of housing funds by some other means. How, in effect, do people envision this merry - ringing car that is about to start? It has been very clear that the function of the fund is not yet completed, at all. It would be a shame to say that this move was a neat cover. But I would like to make it clear that the goal is important, and the music schools are activities that must remain in full power. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u55	A respectable president. I think there might be a reason why we now send a written inquiry to the social and housing minister and ask for information on how they see the role of this fund because we are in position now that we cannot ask for a specific conversation. We cannot ask for oral requests, but we can ask for this and get a written answer when the summer passes. I think it's important. Of course, running to save a good language, an important and essential matter that everyone agrees on, is uncomfortable by selasting in a fund outside the Ministry that is also meant to play a vital role. So this leaves you in a slightly uncomfortable position. But still, it seems that the Ministers appreciate it so that this time it will work and all good at it, but then we'll also ask for a summary of it. What will the fund yet finance? What does it mean to lose 30 million? We need to get this information to the table better, as far as I'm concerned. This does not change the fact that there is a major challenge, and it is trying to achieve some solidarity in the future. Yesterday, the minister expressed some excellent ideas about advanced school with the establishment of a special school that would be expelled from the state if I understood it correctly, that was worth all attention. We'd like to have a conversation with him about this and some other ideas. However, this is simply inexpensive, and these were expensive ideas that were described yesterday. If they are to be carried out in the years ahead, it will be no longer much better than to start working on them and cooperate with them. [[The president calls.]] This will be best done transversely because they need to make money for them and, as we know, they're being held tight at the Ministry of Economics. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u56	Mr. President. I come up here in my second speech on this matter in order to maintain a few things. First, we discussed a similar case last year as the highest. The Minister of Education and Culture recommended them, i.e. which had an extension of this agreement. At that time, it was submitted to an appointed deadline and to the highest level. A minister himself recommended this, but he proclaimed that in the fall of 2014, hopefully a bill would be presented with a vision of the subject of music in this country. Now we're up in June 2015 and the highest. A minister came to the discussion yesterday, which was very good and useful for the discussion, saying that he announced that such a bill would appear until the fall. In my second speech, I want to reiterate this point on the subject that we now discuss. I think all of us who have spoken here have declared support for the case. Of course, it must be said with them in advance that we must trust this to be the last time we discuss such matters and that we will receive a bill with a view to the future in the autumn. I'll be the last person to slow down the fact that these issues are complicated and that I only came into it in my first speech. However, I would like to state that on April 30, 2013, a bill was presented to a new overall set of music schools, which had been in progress for a long time. It suggested that there be new overall laws on the activities of music schools and Kingdom and rural society in that subject. The leading music school has been a selective community member, responsible for the community's responsibility, and it was decided not to change that arrangement. However, it was proposed to establish the arrangement that has been included in this agreement, as well as to suggest a somewhat clearer way in the working of a music school than in the current law, which is, of course, a long list of years ago, not considering the trend in the general school system. Moreover, certain minimum requirements needed for music schools to meet and suggest that this agreement be legalized. This has already occurred, on the one hand, the role of a community member in this, the suggestions, and the role of a member of the rural community, the role of the State, how to create and operate music schools and organize music studies. Although I say that I did not prosper in promoting such a bill at the council, I actually introduced it toward the end of the 2013 Parliament, I am disappointed that this work did not continue. It's been over two years since my date was introduced, which was accomplished in the best cooperation of all stakeholders, and it's actually out of the top answers. Minister here yesterday that such a bill first appeared in the fall of 2015, but it was also announced in the fall of 2014. We were only allowed to hear the ideas they're working with on a new bill. In fact, certain changes are being proclaimed, especially with regard to ideas of uniting a certain independent, active music school, but they continue to promote higher education in other schools. Of course, it is very important that these ideas appear here, and preferably at the beginning of the next fall, so that the council will have time to dive into this matter, for, Mr. President, the foundation for the music life of the country is a good and powerful music program. What we find watching this job is that the uncertainty that has been running the music schools in recent years has a debilitating negative impact on school activities. As far as I've heard, all of us who have shared this discussion with us from different categories are concerned with promoting the activities of these schools. This has helped to understand their importance for the music life in the country, and we cannot let it happen to us if we are wondering if this uncertainty continues. That's the highest responsibility. Minister of the rich. I'll tell it here at the end of my second speech that it is very important that we get this vision right after the ten weeks that will pass until our assembly again, Mr. President, so we can start working on these matters and eliminate the uncertainty. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u57	Mr. President. Hv. A senator is well - known for his kindness toward all of that is grudging. But when I feel that it is difficult to endure, my tolerance does not go too far. A senator almost carries volleyball. Minister for not running this policy? Can I briefly place him on her own standards as Minister of Education in the time of the last government? In the midst of a crisis when that government had to cut down anywhere a knife could be used to raise money to fill up a smoldering hole created in the state's affairs after the collapse of the bank, it took only two years to solve this knot. Now it's got the highest. Education minister, in a time when his own government describes as one of the greatest times honey and gostens, well from the beginning of history, not the complete problem of much less growth and has had in mind two years. It's not a lot of what's going on. A senator to give a whole speech without a problem with his successor in the job? Hv. The senator made only the subject of the highest idea. Minister submitted, but she's kind of rough. Bigtime. After giving the talk, a senator disagrees with me. A minister of yesterday's fairly close nature, that is, to any extent, the idea that solves this problem? As far as I can see, it's high - quality studies at a university, with connection to high school and high school, where a pair of top students are preparing for longer studies in these areas. But how do we solve today's financial problem and show that the music schools do not know whether they have pay for every single month and as school expenses continue to rise because of this uncertainty? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] What does it say? A senator on that and a link to an idea at the highest level. Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u58	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson must not be fooled by my gentle measuring, for of course, I have been extremely critical of the situation of music schools, but I cannot help but describe the understanding that this project has taken a long time, not just for the current highest level. Minister, also of those who came before him and of those who came before me in that office. So that's exactly what I understand. Of course, schools cannot cope with this uncertainty. But with regard to it as a dog. A senator brings up a view of the future. Minister, I can say that it is very vague. As I understand it, it calls for enormous amounts of money into the college, university, or fourth stage which will likely define in the music school law so that it harmonizes with what has been defined in legislation on the general school. If I had been working very long in the spring of 2013, I would have chosen to see the finish sooner, and I pointed to the highest. A minister would have stated over a year ago that the bill was due in the fall of 2014. It's spring 2015 now, and there's still a bill coming, long expecting it. Is that vision smart enough to exist. A senator refers to them as being all I can think of, Mr. President, as being proclaimed, that schools around the country as well as schools in the capital area would be supported by a united school that had a special role. I know, Mr. President, that you're not supposed to ask why. Councilmen who give an answer to a man, but they cannot resist the temptation to ask him why. A senator will have at least one of the terms of at least not to be the normal interpretation of words at the highest. Minister yesterday.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u59	Mr. President. Maybe I'll have more faith in what happened. A senator who herself appreciates this matter far more than she seems to appreciate. Hv. A senator accepted a problem that was waiting for her in the Ministry of his day, and it was almost cyclolism when compared with the problems that existed then in the community and in the government. But in two years she solved it, and not just when she left the Ministry, she left a creative place, almost a ocean map to survive on this matter. V.E.G. A minister in this time I described before, the honey ring of the present government, has had two years to resolve this, he has not done so. He has provided both the years that he has spent in the office of a Constitution that has been found reviews, good if he did not have a complete review of the affairs of music in his country. Now he's got an idea that I want to make absolutely clear that is, as I look at it better, a cool idea, but it's an additional. This idea is an addition to current music studies, a welcome addition. Truly, it is good to receive what I have defined as a university study of music. Hv. A senator calls it the fourth step, and I know that there is an undefined but adheres to the concept of some music schools, for it remains to be implemented. But this calls for extra cash. Because why? The chairman of the Vigdís Hauksdóttir went through this hall on the contrary, I suppose it will be extremely difficult to get additional funding needed to solve the problem here, the hundreds of millions that I would like to claim to be a fully developed school like a top school. The minister described here yesterday must have cost. [[The president calls.]] That idea won't solve the problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u60	Mr. President. Of course, the reason for this situation is most important to the financial standing of a music school in Reykjavík. You're absolutely right. In his first speech tonight, a senator mentioned that we have seen to it that there are higher school fees on students, a trend that school principals of these schools are not at all pleased with, making it possible for fewer students simply to study them. So I cannot help but agree with that understanding, and I hear what I'm saying. A senator agrees that there is a need for more money, both now and even more, if it is intended to be made. The prospect of the future. A minister told me yesterday that I find everything very interesting, but it's a vision that costs money, especially because we're probably a university student of music in Iceland's Art University. And what's his status after the last few years of surgery? Iceland's art school has not now rode a fat horse from the budget, Mr. President, and has not been given any extra funds when we have discussed college matters in budgets. We need to focus on the entire process of music education. This must be done in cooperation with the State and the local community. We need to face the fact that just putting into place the arrangement that was my proposal at the time of the bill that was introduced in the spring of 2013 requires a measure of money. In this regard, the State has contributed funds, as we have seen in the discussion. What, though, if we are going to begin adding to that arrangement? Of course, such questions need to be answered. Therefore, I reiterate the need for these suggestions to come in here no later than by mid - September 2015. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u61	President. It is often the case with such conversations that people are a little in the same place, if that's the way they can put it. I want to continue with this information or idea that we heard about when we received this little bill, if I may allow me to call it, to save my music schools until the end of the year. Then we get to our ears and magazines, and we senators are also informed in mail that there is a lot of ideas about changing the system and setting up a special university level for high school students, so to speak. I don't like the speakers before, but I don't think so - I'd like to ask why. A senator because she knows these things well - it is time to study music like any other school subject so that the level of government is simply responsible for basic school and high school education, as I understand that the city of Reykjavík was an interpreter of this agreement, is likely to be far more advanced than in most rural areas?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u62	Mr. President. It has taken place on my part ever since the office of Ministers that I have not agreed to an interpretation of the city of Reykjavík by state and rural society, for the music school law has not been changed. The responsibility for the project is with rural society. It cannot be overlooked. I have said, however, that it was normal for me to look at this exchange. Initially, it was my opinion that it would be most natural for the State to take responsibility for the afterlife, such as that. paritaprevir Valgerður Bjarnadóttir subject, and rural society handled the level of play and elementary school. It was my conclusion that after reviewing this matter with local communities, stakeholders, music schools, teachers, and school directors, we would have too complicated because we have a number of schools that have all points within the table. In fact, it would have called for the State to take over a section of the business of a large number of units, which I did not think was a practical way. So the motion I presented in my class was that the agreement we now discuss would be established in a legal way in which State funds would be placed in law, that the process of teaching at high school and high school, with additional pressure for management costs, should be taken into account by the estimated amount of education and agreements established by the Union of Icelandic rural society in accordance with music schools at any given time, and the state and the Union of Icelandic rural society would make an agreement for five years in favor of government financial support according to these laws in accordance with government policy. However, rural society had to ensure that a contribution according to this paragraph would finance the teaching of students enrolled in an approved music school without regard to their residence. We actually suggested that the role of the State and Country Society be defined by the law, so that we did not have this unconvinced interpretation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u63	A respectable president. It's like a lot more complicated than it looks at first. I understand that this can be difficult because the schools teach different levels. What I'm thinking is, the danger of the ideas being the highest. Well, the Minister of Education put out here yesterday is that high school will be a little off because we're going to enter a university and school for high school, which I'm very into, as it has been, but it must cost a lot of money. I also wondered, a respectable president, and I understand it when it happened. The senator says that the community is responsible for the career of the music schools, but then members of the council come and say: This bill has to be moved because Reykjavík interprets it somehow differently. Is it not accepted that the city of Reykjavík has a considerable point if this is the second or third time it is being suggested here to bridge the remaining amount? I'm starting to get a little bit irritated that the members of the council come up here and say we don't have to do this if the city of Reykjavík didn't interpret things differently. It seems to me that Reykjavíkurburg has a different position in this situation than any other community. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u64	Mr. President. I consider this matter to be, not the interpretation of different rural communities, but the extending of the agreement between state and group because there is no future vision. A system of government and rural development has not been legalized. As I said before, I have not agreed with Reykjavíkurburg interpretation, but I recognize that when the agreement was signed, it was announced that this exchange would be explained in a new music school law. That bill lay ahead. Well, at least not at all. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson thinks I'm minimizing my contribution in it, I would've liked to finish it sooner, but I really have no explanation why it hasn't mattered since the two years that the bill has been before, to be told. It is true, so that we could be reasonable, that the status of music in Reykjavík is different from other rural society, especially since it is a capital capital and most important because in Reykjavík it has been the arrangement for schools of music to be active because they have been different from smaller rural communities, where the community has been driven by them. Of course, it has increased complexity when it comes to practical questions about the perspective of students and other factors that a large number of independent schools create a lot of fleas in the study of music, but making community interaction with these schools is another in which society runs the schools themselves. It's part of the problem. During the time when we discussed this interpretation problem, some of the State's contribution to the case was underestimated because a review of the number of students at the advanced stage was not sufficient. On the contrary, directly following the agreement, local communities made new agreements with music instructors, who, of course, created a challenge in terms of previous collective agreements. [[The president calls.]] These are issues that need to be resolved. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. So I can only sin at the time, one of the suggestions in the bill was a special consultation committee on the subject of a music school where state, communities, and schools were to have parties, so the general council would not have to discuss such points as these in the discussions at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u65	Mr. President. This discussion has been very interesting, especially since it brought us here to the end of the council. A minister of education who reviewed his ideas. I come to them later in my speech. There's only been a killing of the nature of the redundancy in this bill. This is manifested in various ways. First of all, this is a case that has been reassigned to the Ministry for two years and remains unsolved. Second, a reflection of the redundancy is the fact that money is taken in everything unrelated to the Ministry, for an all - related case, from a financial reserve of 30 million. It's a fund to go, if I remember correctly, in order to survive or lighten up with rural society because of the cost of their used social apartments. You wonder, " Why is it a financial reserve for social housing? ' Why not something else, such as the Icelandic root - shelter fund? Yet, there was a lot of money. I remember when I examined this case 10 years ago that there were 50 million in it that was not new, but we lost, Mr. President, the colored sea of the land to Germany, which was never to be found. That's another story. The minister's release seems to have two forms: one way to save the situation temporarily by relying on the aid and solidarity of all members of the council to save their status in music schools, but it's in such a hurry that the schools do not already know whether they have money to pay the teacher's wages. It is also shown in the growing school fees of students, uncertainty about options and fewer options, of course. Here's the deal. It was going to be the best. Minister to temporarily dissolve at ease. The General and Education Committee with the bill we all support and I will vote for. However, the highest would be expected. Minister for permanent solution. He has published now two years in a series of Congress reports that his language will include a general review of the affairs of music in his country. That matter has not yet come to pass. But the highest. The minister was practically dragged here on the shoulder bands by the wind. paritaprevir Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir's daughter, the chairman of a panel of independence officials, was in the conversation yesterday when members demanded that he come and explain the ideas that have been on the sound chamber here and where and the highest. A minister has tore up everywhere but here. To his credit, however, he made a relatively detailed presentation of his ideas. I have considered them as far as possible based on a talk given. Minister from yesterday. I came to the conclusion that the idea is very good. It involves a fourth step in learning music. In fact, it involves me, in my opinion, a sort of university education in the local music industry. That's my idea. It means that it is a gathering of prominent students from all over the country and offering them high - quality education before going to further studies in foreign lands because they have chosen to make music the future. At the same time, it was said in a case of the highest order. Minister to special contact is to the high school and education of the country. That's a good idea. I'm sure she'll give a lot of support to Iceland's music life. It will lead to, if ever she is put into effect, that music life in Iceland will grow and we will most likely have more Vikings, more outstanding Italians in the field of music. Mr. President. There's a catch on this case. He is that it will solve in no way the financial problems that music education in the country today, and we have been discussing here today and yesterday. On the contrary, it is likely that such a custom will cost a lot of money. I'm suggesting that it can't be under a few hundred million. In other words, the good idea is the best. A minister will lead to a call for more money. None of this will save the financial problems of a music school in the country, and not at all here in Reykjavík or in the capital area. Idea at the highest. A minister is fine, but she has nothing to do with this matter, unfortunately, she solves no problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-23-135.u66	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to legalise civil rights, which is the custom of moving here both in the spring and in the fall. The committee has reviewed our traditional applications and suggests that 32 people will be granted a citizenship right this time. The committee received a total of 47 applications for citizenship during this spring council.
