ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u1	Borist has received a letter from the Speaker of the Independence Party for the 1st. Smoke. n., Illugi Gunnarsson, can't attend a conference next week. Today, then, at the General Assembly 1, a deputy of the Independence Party list is in the district, the Ingibjörg of Óðinsdóttir. In the past, Ingibjörg of Odin's Óðinsdóttir has taken up residence at the General Assembly, and she is welcome to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u2	There have been two letters from the Department of Professional Road and Neoplasms asking for deadlines to give written answers to panel requests. 990, on national economic economic efficiency, and on shellfish. 922 of the settlements, both of the Sigurður of the son of Örn Ágústsson. There have also been two letters received from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs asking for every request to give written answers to the application for this request. 1026, about the state of the State Pension Fund A-insector's position and inquiries. 1027, on the position of the official pension fund, both of Pétur H. Blöndalur.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u3	With letters, with days. March 3 and 5 of this, the president has requested it, as per the 8th stipulation of 1st. 13th par. Congress, with the Commission and Control Committee, that it deals with the following reports from the Government Review; a report on government resources, a report on contracts and their institutions, a report on Food Fund, purpose and benefits and a report on the basic education of Icelandic schools.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u4	A respectable president. I thank the President for setting up this program for the later meeting with the government today at the General Assembly. I'm sorry that at the request of our council classes, our council meetings for a meeting on Thursday and a meeting on Friday, it would not be the word. According to Congress, if a third of the committee wants a meeting, then the meeting will happen as soon as possible. When more than one third of the U.S. National Committee wants a meeting in the hearing of one of the biggest cases of the day, I believe a president should grant that request. There's been a misappreciating that for more days there have been complete uncertainty about the main issues in Iceland's foreign policy, a misunderstanding of our major cooperation countries and the declarations of government officials throughout and east that since this date there has been a big political decision on the move, and to the fact that nothing has happened. This has been the head of the former Independence Party, and prime minister and group flokksbróðir of Einar the son of Kristinn Theology had to call a nursery. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This method, how this has been handled, has been a failure of the general body and not an improved position. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u5	A respectable president. During the last Thursday evening, when the government's affairs in the European Union became apparent, it was requested that this evening be called for a meeting on Friday. That request was repeated on Friday morning at a meeting of the council groups with presidents. At that meeting, I strongly objected to the president's decision not to accept that wish. It is the natural right of the smaller section to request when major decisions are made to be immediately called to a meeting so that a person can discuss the situation. Here is nothing more than a major government crisis in the country, because while it's a positive thing that the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee and the President of the Generals sees it as still in force of the 2009 Council's resolution, it's a serious thing that Iceland's government will consider it to be one-sided. [[The president calls.]] Of course, there is nothing more than a major administrative crisis. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u6	A respectable president. The incident in the community on Thursday was called for a very strong response in politics and, among other things, that we at the heads of the Assembly Assembly Assembly Committees were immediately required for a meeting. We wished for it with good reason at the highest point. President that 25 members of Parliament wanted the Hall to be opened for a democratic and informative discussion of the situation that had come up. It was not the word. It is, a respectable president, disturbing, and we must hold that it cannot be helped in a democratic community based on Congress. But I would like to thank the highest. A president for the changes that have occurred on the program and are in order to bring this discussion to light.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u7	A respectable president. I'm here to discuss the President's conference board because, as noted earlier, he refused to be ruled by the ruling parties or members of the Parliament for a meeting on Friday to discuss the serious situation of the day, i.e. to the minister of foreign affairs believes that his letter to the world is in the embezzling of Congress. Of course, this needed to be explained immediately. It did not work for people to be sent into the weekend without the General's discussion and without a president's identification of the Generals' position. As a result, I make a lot of remarks, and this is a real disappointment with the President's work, which so far has worked out that I really like it. I expect we'll be able to decide afterwards and that the president of all our highest organisations in Iceland will determine where the government is located here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u8	A respectable president. I just want to agree with what's been going on here. Class presidents asked for a meeting last Friday, and that request was not granted. At that time, I feel quite right to remember that the evening was a party, and I can be sure that members of the Parliament could have arrived in Congress on a relatively short notice. I'd like to thank you too, though. President for changing the program today. That's a great improvement. It is fundamental that the Council itself understands its own purpose and its own role. In itself, there is no need for an explanation of the highest degree. Ministers of Foreign Affairs on what sort of Congress population and how the Council is doing, it is our decision here, and most of all, and most of all, in fact, the nation. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Council members of the Council usually be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u9	Mr. President. It is absolutely essential that the General knows exactly what the board of directors is. It is the President and the Presidency Committee to determine the uncertainty that exists. The foreign minister wants to mean, as the interview took place in RUS on the same day that he sent this letter, the 12th month, the party application - if we are to resume our application. Involvement has been terminated. It is also what is called after in the letter that the European Commission does this, in its work ethic, assumes that the Member State's application is terminated. On the other hand, there is a reason. The head of the State Department does not agree. He said that the meeting was not terminated. This is an absolute uncertainty situation that the president and the Presidency Committee cannot set aside for long. The President has the opportunity to do so now as we discuss this matter, after an unprepared inquiry at the council in half an hour - it will be the highest. A minister has history, and there he can decide. [[The president calls.]] The Matrix needs to know, the people need to know, and ministers need to know.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u10	For this particular occasion, the president would like to say that on Friday, when this request was announced, the discussion that would be called after must be based on the subject, which was the highest letter. Minister of state, often quoted. Therefore, the president simply considered it better for the discussion that was called after it presented later in a clearer way to the content of the letter. However, the president wants to celebrate the future debate over the state of the Generals in that he wishes to represent the government, and tomorrow he will then discuss a verbal report at the highest level. Secretary of state on European affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u11	To answer, Prime Minister, Economic and Economic Ministers, Health Ministers, Industrial and Business Ministers and Environmental and Resource Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u12	A respectable president. V.E.G. During the past few weeks and months, the prime minister has traced it often to the past few months, it might be assumed that a proposal to withdraw an application for membership in the European Union would be submitted to the General Assembly of Iceland on a spring loss. In the news on January 17, he told the State Radio that he assumed that such a proposal would be made and done at the General Assembly. On March 2, he said that he assumed that such proposals would come to an end if referred to in the government file, and it would likely be a proposal made by the minister of foreign law. It is important to explain Iceland's position on this matter. It's now time not to go to the highest level. The prime minister, or his government, trusts to make such a suggestion to the Allied Council, probably because he was not sure what the outcome would be in the General Assembly. To avoid this and also try to achieve the success of the damage to the accession process, letters are being written and treated as human killings. V.E.G. The minister and his government stood here for a spectacle consisting of unprecedented plots and subsidiary in the handling of the cases, allowed themselves to belittled by their own foreign authorities by allowing them to attend a meeting on Thursday without knowing that a basic decision on the treatment of foreign affairs was made, and this made clear by a council and a nation repeatedly promised to attend. I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister: Is he willing to agree with the chairman of the Council of State and the president of Congress, both of whom have declared that the 2009 narrative is still valid? Second, the highest. ▪ Prime Ministers prepared to see their dignity in retracting this letter and in an acceptable way according to the Constitutional regulations and terms for material discussions at the National Assembly of Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u13	A respectable president. First, it is true. A senator mentioned, it was stated in the Government Constitution that perhaps there would be a proposal for our position in the European Union. It has also been stated many times that the reason why the wording was in such a way that there might be a suggestion was that people saw a reason to evaluate the situation in view of all that has taken place since the conclusion of the motion. Part of that work was involved in dealing with the European Union in the last few weeks and out of the relationship, of course, came the conclusion, in the final analysis, the obvious best outcome of the case, i.e. to end this as a positive way towards the European Union, so to speak, do it in a good way. All that was missing was that the government explained its position on the matter, whether she wanted to adopt a last government policy, and continue where this application was abandoned or not. It is not the will of this government to join the European Union, and as a result, Iceland cannot at the same time be an applicant country. Being an application State on involvement in the European Union includes a declaration of willingness to enter it. For the question of the why. I've never heard many people, hardly anyone from outside. A senator and a member of the council here argues that the terms of Congress have long - lasting value and bind all future governments. Consolations are the conclusions of the then existing Generalis, and they have a direct message for the government under its authority. [[Up front.]] [[Step forward: Discriminate.]] However, it can be noted that even with the controversies of the back, so to speak, the last government declared that it provided various conditions for applying this application, including the application procedure. that she could retract at any stage of the matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u14	A respectable president. The World Council of Foreign Affairs agrees to oblige the government until it is eliminated by a different conclusion. For this reason, there is a long, unremarkable seminary in Iceland. It's all clear in a fine article in the reactor today, the highest. Prime Minister for information. It's very interesting to hear that the highest. The prime minister has worked so hard to deny the assembly and the nation the approach to the decision that he has taken back mountain backs in a negotiation campaign with the European Union to write a letter filled with half-time persistence, enabling him to maintain that the Member State's application has been retracted when it has not been reassigned. V.E.G. The prime minister is now obliged to fall into power. It has become a matter of suspense with the vow he has signed, of honor to the constitution, which includes the highest order. The prime minister needs to respect the Council of Congress and not deal with other countries to create ways to keep decisions from the Allied Council. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u15	A respectable president. Something seems bad. A senator has misunderstood. There were no agreements with the European Union on the outcome of the case. However, it is only natural for humans to get it straight now, such as the dog. A senator should have figured out all these years, what it means to be an applicant state of involvement in the European Union. It is very simple and is presented in special brochures published by the enlargement director of the Union for the applicant countries. The applicant state declares that he or she wants to be involved. If the government does not want to enter the European Union, it is not supposed to be an application state. About theories well. It will be quite difficult for a member of Congress to plan to follow that course, for example, in the case of the situation. A senator would eventually become a member of the government and would enforce all unfinished Congress laws for the past few years and decades.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u16	... U.S. tribunals.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u17	A respectable president. The discussion just mentioned shows that there are a number of ways of understanding what is needed to study the interpretation of the synonym, but this is quite clear from the words of the Supreme Court. The prime minister who spoke before considers a letter to be the highest. The secretary of state to the European Union is revocation of an application in the words he spoke earlier, i.e. that Iceland was no longer an application state. At least I haven't had a hard time. After being asked to explain their understanding of that letter during the past few days, the members of the board agree completely with one agreement. Hv. The head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Birgir Ármannsson, has said that he does not view the letter as breaking up the situation with the European Union but, rather, the political stand of the government. This is really in harmony with what some scholars have also pointed out in the great interpretation war that has been about the letter of the minister of foreign affairs this weekend. V.E.G. Secretary of State claims to think that the case is over, and I feel I've heard the most of it. The secretary of finance suggests that he feels that the letter is equivalent to the re-vocation of an application. I want to pray to the highest. The secretary of finance to inform us members of the letter whether the application was reactivated, and I cannot understand his comment that this equivalent revocation was different, whether the meeting was terminated, or whether mainly the government's policy was correct that it is not going to continue discussions with the European Union. It is relevant for what we will discuss afterward, which is exactly the position of the council and the situation of the council arrangements, which certainly have a value far beyond the lifetime of the council. For example, consider the case of former government policies against Palestine. That direction is probably still valid, or perhaps it's been canceled? I'd like to ask the highest. Minister, first of all: Does he view the application as being called back? Second, does he not view a new gathering as needed? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u18	Mr. President. When the director of the left greens participated in a discussion about the synopsis below, beginning in 2009, in a subsequent year. he said: I and we leave ourselves the right to cancel our discussion with the European Union at any time and so should the council. So he declared on behalf of the left greens that they had the right to abandon their discussion with the European Union at any time, as well as on the basis of the document itself, the right to reverse the agreement they were going to make. In addition, the report and in the entire discussion, there are such warnings that you ask yourself: " What is the real commitment when you look at the matter? [[Up front.]] So here it is at the Senate document, which is all tied up with the so - called legalist. [[Up front.]] [[Take it up: Pick it up.]] Communicators make their right to do this, painters make their right to do this queer. The participants were members of the Conspiracy and left greens on the document. I believe that the terms of the council aren't binding for the Council and the current government. Asked here if the application was canceled. What really is that? On the one hand, do I think there are questions there: Do we Icelanders have to submit a new application in the future if they intend to apply for involvement in the European Union? It sounds to me that there is a somewhat parapolitic convergence that this expedition should not be resumed without first turning to the nation. It is hardly possible for anyone to think of building an after-up conversation with the European Union, possibly at some point in the future, on what happened here following the Constitution from 2009 because nothing happened for four years. [[The president calls.]] Nothing exactly happened. Laws within the country and in the European Union continue to change. It in itself is empty to talk about building an after discussion on that document.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u19	A respectable president. I'm not going to spend long time discussing the obsession with the Supreme Minister of the current government to spend the last term forever. However, I allow myself to stress that it seems to be a form of compulsion. But okay. [[Take it up in a time machine.]] When I'm at the highest. The secretary of finance went back to the future I'd like to get it completely clear, so he looks at it to the highest level. Is the government not bound to this conquistador? Does he also feel that it is not bound by one of the church standards approved? I mentioned the interpretation of our policy in Palestine. I can review a synod of whaling that was approved here, a respectable president. Was it not 1999 or 1998 that she was approved, and a respectable president was one of the transporters? Shall we take a look at it, top dog? Secretary of finance, that the government is not bound by any of these terms, or does the minister consider any particular evidence to be valid regarding the interpretation that has been specifically discussed here? Because this is important for the discussion that we are going to follow regarding the communication between the European Commission and the legislature. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u20	Mr. President. As I traced my first speech, the members of the council felt that they were not bound by it themselves. They left behind the right to give up everything at any time. Of course, this discussion cannot be taken without discussing in accordance with and the rule of Congress. If people really believe that this is going contrary to the council, why don't people put a mistrust in the case, on the minister, or on the government according to the incident? Why not? [[Up front.]] How do you think to claim that there is something going on here that much of the council is completely contrary? You really think that the Congress thing can't take over, vote, bring mistrust, etc.? [[Up front.]] And talk about the fact that the last term, which was made by votes after the king's death volume of the government, is that it can go against it, despite the fact that the law in another way works out, of course it doesn't hold any opinion. [[The president calls.]] The Constitution, you see, speaks for itself. [[The point is, it's on slippery ice.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u21	A respectable president. The decision to participate in the European Union was one of the largest decisions in the history of the Republic, and of course it was the council that made that decision. In many cases, breaking up the European Union is even bigger and more destructive. Of course, the council is supposed to make a decision on that matter, and indeed it is so big that I think almost all ministers of the current government have promised before the last election that the people would decide whether the discussion would be terminated or not. So big was the decision taken, and it is quite possible that the decision to break up the discussion cannot be made in one of the highest letter. Secretary of State is sending out to the world. Such decisions are not made in Iceland, and it is amazing that we are now arguing over how we make such big decisions. All government ministers must answer their view of Congress and democracy at this time. That's why I'm asking the highest. Health Minister: What does he think of convocations? During the last term, as an example, a very controversial assembly resolution was adopted that localization should be passed on. She created a lot of discussion here. Secretary of well-being, which is now the highest. The minister of Kristján Þór Júlíusson was assigned to law in Iceland that local transportation should be permitted. Consider this example. [[The president calls.]] Does a minister view him as free from that decision of the Generals?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u22	A respectable president. I believe that bigger decisions than Iceland's Member States' demand have been taken into this fine hall in recent years. I remind you of a decision to present that application under national regulations, that proposal was made here in the audience. Perhaps we would not be at this place today in this discussion if it had been agreed. Another larger decision taken and became much greater interest in the 2010 Icesave Treaty. That suggestion was also made so that we often make one or more major decisions. Regarding that question as a question. A senator stands before me, how I see the decrees of the assembly, and how a minister ought to work with them, and cites as an example a synonym of local passage, I am having it won. I suppose that will soon be presented on the basis of the resolution adopted by the Allied Council. If I had disagreed, I would have made it clear to the council. I expect a foreign minister to explain his opinion on the subject that is discussed tomorrow with the discussion that will begin. That is the point, it is only natural for humans to discern their position to the conclusions adopted by the Parliament and how it will be carried out. [[Up front.]] In view of what has been presented in the discussion, I would like to point out why. For a senator, there is no more important matter in carrying out the conditions outlined in that Senate arrangement, and this is the case. There's no more in the council for that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u23	Then let the Senate answer...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u24	A respectable president. It is heartbreaking to see that Ministers in Iceland's government are trying to get past the Council of Congress with some sort of vocabulary, spreading some legal mudwood. If the highest. A minister would be opposed to a surrogacy if he had made that clear to the council. I'm waiting for the highest. Minister to be clearer. Of course, he would have had to enter the council with his stand. Of course, he is bound by the resolution of the Generals. Let us review the conclusions we have agreed on, e.g. resolutions to accept the independence of Palestine and hide the government from bringing messages to Palestine. Can the present government say: No, in view of the latest events that may be some of the time, decide not to accept the independence of Palestine and send its letter to the world? V.E.G. President. Of course not! It's crystal clear, completely clear. [[The president calls.]] The councilmen of the Iceland government must comply with the sounds of Congress that are approved here. Period. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u25	A respectable president. I don't think there's a need to get all worked up in this conversation. I think that on the basis of this, all members of the council feel that we work on the basis of the assumptions approved by the council. Then there are circumstances and situations in which following the conclusions adopted in this case is really unforgiving, political. [[Up front.]] I would have felt that men would respect it. It was an experiment to do that, because I'm being interrupted, to bring them in. It didn't work out for some reason. There's a lot of chance. A senator is here to give a talk in the form of a talk. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] I would have thought that part of this discussion, which we should try to get out of, was to give the speakers peace in order to speak their language. I've had enough of the openings in this room.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u26	President. I'd like to ask the highest. Environment and resource secretary to the highest. A minister has attended a government meeting that discussed the letter given by the government. Minister of Foreign Affairs, Gunnar Sveinsson Svenson, to present Edgars Rinkevics and Johannes Hahn. It told that Iceland was no longer a member of the EU candidate population. Everyone was the highest. Ministers agree on that process? Parking at the highest. Minister of the same understanding for this act as the highest. Ministers of foreign and financial resources that the letter is an excerpt from the member process, as has repeatedly been observed in interviews with them? If the answer is yes, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if any other decision of the council is subject to the same quirks. That's the opinion of Senator Sigrún Magnúsdóttir, now the highest. Minister and ex-whisper. Councilman of the Future Party, that the Commission can ignore the Congress by making major decisions without signing them for the legislature? Finally, I'd like to ask you why. former council members and current minister, Sigrún Magnúsdóttir: Is it correct to interview Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson? Minister, that the head of the Independence Party made a secret agreement with the forward movement when the government was supposed no national agreement would ever be held? Then I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: To the highest degree, she agrees. Minister of State to say that it does not change in itself what was said for elections in terms of the national pay or at the table when it is negotiated on a case or something like that?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u27	A respectable president. Yes, the government is on the side of the secretary's letter. I was at that meeting, and I support what it says.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u28	What does it say?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u29	[[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Didn't you read the letter?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u30	In... translations.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u31	Three pages...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u32	[[Take it up, Mr. President.]] [[The president calls.]] If I understood correctly, the next question was what? A senator to see if I had the same understanding as the highest. Secretary of finance. I have the same understanding. The third question -- she reads pretty fast, I didn't get exactly what questions... Whether there was something behind... Would she want to repeat the question, or might we do so later? But I just want to make it perfectly clear that this letter is a confirmation of what we've said in the past, that's been a long discussion at the conferences, and nothing new there. In my opinion, it's just a confirmation of what has been discussed and that government represents.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u33	V.E.G. President. I asked if it was the highest opinion. Ministers that the Commission could ignore the Congress by making major decisions without signing it for the legislation. Second, I asked the highest. The former body member and current secretary for whether it was right, as noted in an interview by Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, U.S.A. Secretary of State, that the head of the Independence Party made a secret agreement with the forwarding party when the government was accused of having no national agreement at any time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u34	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for repeating the questions. I'm always in a position to be able to discuss a matter, whether it's here or anywhere else. I'm not in any way concerned that this facility is going against the Generals' will. I want to reiterate what the prime minister said earlier and I feel that there's an important point in this matter, that was spoken to the European Commission for trying to make those fragments good and that makes me feel like a good face. [[Up front.]] I was not a minister when this government was set up. And that people come up here to the Senate Hall and take something they hear somewhere in... [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] Yeah, I just don't take part in giving an answer for that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u35	The president asks for a sound in the Senate Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u36	A respectable president. With the permission of a president, I will begin my case with a quote that says: The most important thing to me is that the people will be allowed to vote for whether this will continue or not. I trust the nation to make an informed decision. Because of the large interracial differences between the nation, between the country and its capitals, this goes through families, the only way to determine which is now to ask the people. That's what the current Supreme Court said. Industrial and business minister, Ragnheiður Árnadóttir, on U.S. Radio of 2013. How's the top? A minister now, not just a decision to walk past the nation, is the decision to walk past the council in this decision? I must ask, a respectable president, how did the government and its representatives get so far away from their own opinions that are living today? How does such a process take place? I have to say, just as it is, it's very difficult for me to listen to a government representative talk that way about how Congress feels. I'll be that way, too, because I'm asking the highest question. Minister whether she will soon have to go through and inform the council what council proposals in her case have kept her values for elections. The most honest thing is that every government minister does it because it is not clear. All that is realized is that Congress resolutions approved from the Council are all gone.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u37	A respectable president. I can tell you what. A senator says I'm fine. Hv. A senator read a quote on a TV program, and I accept those words. I'd like to think about it as just a little bit. A senator did not read. I was asked what my class was in regard to Europe, and then I thoroughly reviewed that talks were to be stopped and that they were not to be held out except by the national legal process. Then the conversation goes on and asks what if they do? The questions continued, and then I told them what the senator quoted. On the same show there was a why. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson, and they asked him why the people hadn't been asked when the application started. So he answered on the same point: We did not have to do it, we had a congregation part. This was the case, and it might be a little strange that we were discussing it now with those wrong accents, but then it was. A senator who used the Senate and the one mentioned here spoke of a national bill. The difference between me and what. A senator who was with me on this show is that I regularly voted for national terms during the last term and, yes, I trusted the nation in a brilliant way to make decisions that concern them. In this case, I support course at the highest. Governments that have been completely in existence since the beginning of this government. Since she made a cooperative agreement, this is absolutely clear, as well as the conclusions both of the classes that this government has made at its national conventions.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u38	A respectable president. These answers will only be embarrassing and embarrassing. Here's what we're going to see in the grandest case. Ministers that an agreement was made aside with the government covenant that this case would not go into the national legal process. This is a confirmation. It's amazing how everyone here speaks paraphrasely. It's just a matter of reasoning to justify this bad decision. When I'm at the highest. A minister here recites from memory what was done in these factors I would like to show her that what I read was a word quoted. I think the highest. A minister should consider only what she has said, and he will rely less on his own. ...the nation will decide on how to deal with the EU in national terms during the terms of the election. Those words are on page 8. 5 of the Re-election brochure of the Independence Party, which was published for the success of the last election. [[Up front.]] It does not say that it is only in case of continuation. [[The president calls.]] It is confirmed here that the words of these people are unremarkable and election brochures and published material for the promotion of an election on the part of the Independence Party as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u39	A respectable president. You know, there's an amazing way out of town. One senator to argue that I was in the process of informing about some amazing secret arrangement with my words earlier. What I meant, I'll tell you why. A senator in charge is a government contract that is completely contrary to anything that might be called a secret document. I'll pass it out. A senator copies of the reveries available on his website... [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]] The government's declaration of policy highlights the government's policy in Europe. Even though my conversation was followed, I'm just going to tell you, too, that I took this factor especially for a moment, so that my memory in these matters is brilliant and I encourage you. A senator to watch his entire program and all those discussions instead of quoting a single sentence.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u40	The arrangement for this discussion is as follows: The president of the Generals has finished the discussion. [[Up front.]] Each body has 12 minutes and the groups divide time as they choose. The order of Congress is as follows in all traffic: the organization, the Independence Party, the left movement a surely green supply, the forward group, the bright future, the Pirantars.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u41	V.E.G. President. I wanted to address the highest. The president of Einar Guðfinnsson Theðsson because the discussion has revealed that he is in charge of the government's information office. The people have already arrived here, i.e. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Minister Kristján Þór Júlíusson, that he informed the council of his position and then we should act accordingly. It's the highest. President now become a public angel? To me, it is a serious discussion that takes place here during the hour and days of the International Assembly. We have often howled from being secret - minded, being cut off by the council. There are few cases that the government has a meeting on Tuesday. There were meetings and meetings in committees but kept secret, and the councils were finally called together to meet on Friday. 15 to bless this in the middle of a committee meeting. I don't know any examples like this since I came in here in 2007. Here, people have stood up and were holy over the council every time, holy over secretism, admired the Senate - but not a stone upon a stone. [[The president calls.]] I'm not going to believe that these 63 of my colleagues at the council are going to let this happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u42	A respectable president. During these days the respect of the council is at stake. It is the President of the Generals to be in the lead of those who want to promote the respect of the council and remain in the state of the council. I've seen and read a statement by counsellers in the government these past few days, after the Supreme Court. Prime Minister and I also consider the highest. Secretary of finance and secretary of state, which is the way I would like to make a formal search at the highest level. President, he's making comments. It claims that the decision to apply for membership in the European Union in 2009 was forced and therefore does not have to be taken seriously. We talked about it here just a year ago because this historical explanation came into a paper with a form of government and was taken out because it's a natural revulsion, this review. [[The president calls.]] We must, and especially the President of the Generals, keep it totally in good standing with the citizens of this country that the results obtained in votes in this hall are to be respected. They should always be respected. If we are not going to respect them and somehow imply that they are forced or brought forth in some other way, we are undermined by the law, the smell of Congress, and the Congress in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u43	A respectable president. In the autumn of 2010, a resolution on the response of the Generals to the report of the Allied Committee was adopted. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ The General concluded that the procedure of the Council is urgent. It is important that the Council defend and strengthen their independence and basic role. This was approved here at the Hall of Congress with 63 votes, and I'm asking all of us, not the highest. President, not the government, but I'm asking ourselves, "Is this a matter of Congress today?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u44	President. I have to admit, I'm shocked. I'm shocked and I'm kind of in a shock because there's Congress and the democracy that I thought we were building is no longer there. This has been confirmed here by one of the minister after another and by every member of the council after another who has called in the recent discussions. I want to know, Mr. President whether what's happened here from the Minister's office is something the President can agree with. Do we have democracy or democracy?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u45	A respectable president. Then there may be a sharp lump of iron to beige. Of course, there is good reason for this, a respectable president, after the answers made by the Commission here, to give a firm warning about the developments that we see here. The prosecuting officer of the Independence Party speaks in this chair as if a government can do anything it wants to do only if the council does not express distrust of it. A respectable president. This is a description of the ideal and absolute Ministership views. Only a few losses have been made since the history of the Independence Party was published in nine volumes by the Generals, the study report itself, and there is no question that we need to learn to respect the Senate and to dismiss the irreverent presumptuousness that characterized the Minister of this inquiry. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u46	A respectable president. For a time it appeared that the government of the Sigmundur Davíð of Gunnlaugsson Gunnyll would be at the worst of all the foolish political stories, but the situation that we see today is far more serious. There is a lot of concern and serious situation when an entire government is exposed to a lack of understanding of the national regime, not understanding why such a major decision would have to enter this council. That, of course, is a matter of concern. But another point to consider, as the minister of the government before us, is the irreverent lack of the leadership shown by the government leaders here and again. They receive each other's opportunities to be the head of the council here, but they burn off every single time. [[The president calls.]] It is heartbreaking to witness this, a tragedy to the nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u47	A respectable president. Not to be accepted by our obvious request that the letter be unbelievably canceled and the matter be presented to the council for a reasonable discussion of the members of the administration board. It's going to miss the highest. Secretary of finance that as long as members of Congress do not have war against him, he can do what he wants. The officers of the council did not feel confident about passing the matter through the council, so they did not give it up before the council. It's simply the fact of the matter. Then, in the shelter, they learn that as long as they do not have to put up with feelings of self - confidence, they can continue in these few - hearing ways. V.E.G. In response, one minister made a better point of saying in his reply that he had agreed with foreign parties on wording in this letter to pass by the General Assembly of the Icelanders. It's a little tighter than a treason, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u48	A respectable president. I'm gonna let myself disagree. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall says this government doesn't understand the government's orders. I think she just doesn't care about her at all. They are willing to use whatever advice they can think of to get their way, and if the council gets in their way, they will simply miss it. That's what we're seeing happening here. However, it was not a smaller part of the council that got in the way of men during the last assembly. Rather, it was a greater part of the foreign committee that did so. Perhaps that is why people do not suggest bringing the matter back in here. This is because they do not believe that they have the power to do so in the light of experience. A respectable president. Finally, I'd like to say this: It's perfectly clear to me in view of the argument behind the decision that all Congress laws fall down at election. It's just that way. I don't understand how men can afford to make decisions that there's something for the council to approve of. Is it now such that the council is some institution where the Ministers can take some points, index status, and then intended to agree or not? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] What kind of a thing is that? [[The president calls.]] This needs to be carefully considered.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u49	A respectable president. I'd like to mention the most serious thing I've ever heard in speeches from the highest level. Councilmen, and that is the argument for this operation that the council could not or wanted to handle the same cases a year ago. It is not an option for the government to perform something she knows will not go through the council. If the government doesn't like the way a political process works and doesn't agree with the equipment the government has, then I'm the first man on the deck to support it in changes in the way things work here, so I'm sure. But ignoring the legislature agreement because of the disagreement on the Aldullism is not available. That's not an option.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u50	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you very much. A president for having a report to us today regarding the state of the Generals, although I agree with the comments of others in the greater part that this discussion should have taken place before the weekend. The reason I keep silent in this discussion about the President's conference board is that when this part of the program, the state of the Generals, was announced from the President's chair, under the top deck was announced. Prime Minister. Some of the ministers, though not all, hurried out of the hall after they had trampled on the Council, representing the members of Congress themselves. I'm going to order senators to fight that Congress will not be trampled on and left out at the highest level. The prime minister is a guide in this crisis. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u51	Mr. President. The legal summary of the application of a synonym made in the earlier General Assembly office of this term is made quite clear in a summary and results, by permission of the president: To the authority of the administration court, Generalis conclusions are included. Their recommendations, directed to the government, are binding on the government on the basis of the Constitution. It is also stated that it is not legally binding, but it is binding on the basis of a matter of Congress. What must be done? The government isn't completely bound for life, is it? No, if they're going to neglect meeting council decrees, they need to report them to the General and say, "No, we're not going to enforce them. If, on the other hand, they're going to change the trial, they're going to have to do it by convincing, as clearly indicated, by a president's permission: In view of the foregoing, it must be assumed that the General shall be informed of such changes and at the same time seek the stand of the council or the greater part of it for a change in the trial. [[The president calls.]] To change the case, this is to be done by convincing. If there is to be a lack of interpretation, this must be done by a report. [[The president calls.]] Neither was made in this matter. This must be clear, and the president of the Generals needs to explain it to the people.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u52	President. I have to say that I am very disappointed in the way even experienced members of Congress speak in this discussion about the state of the council and perhaps especially that we are here under this program for the President's conference board. As a matter of fact, it is not new that the government's office uses the President's conference board to talk about European events. When the proposal they miss now so much that it did not appear at the time came into place, the opposition took place, not to give talks about the matter, no, but just to talk about the President's conference board in order to ruin it, to delay. During the session, 158 talks on the President's conference board - 158 hearings of the president's meeting board and talking for more than four hours continuously about the President's meeting board, as far as the case itself would not be discussed, the case that everyone now misses so much from the government position, that he would not be in charge of the council. [[Up front.]] I call attention to the fact that in a summary and results of a legal opinion sent to all members of the council, this is very clear. [[The president calls.]] There is no need to make such a mistake as this. [[The president calls.]] This is very clear here. You know, the big part is in charge. [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u53	Mr. President. That was a big word from the highest. Secretary of the budget: Here we are, that's normal, that's up to us, and we don't have to ask the council something or anything. Sad to say, this is a serious controversy of Congress, and to hear such a word coming down here is not intended to reduce the concern that the public of the country has of the council, from the contents of the very second language. It is a contingency of the council, and it is amazing to see a minister run from his words that they have had in their possession of this great and grand significance and that it should pass through the council. You can think of the phrase: 'Just if it suits me,' as said in some popular lyrics, although you should not mix it with this discussion. But I'm afraid that's the way it is with this amateur government--I say an amateur government, the highest. Secretary of finance, for this kind of work does not show that a person knows the government of the country or a political body or a political body. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u54	Mr. President. It was especially good at the highest. The secretary of the economy and the leader of a government opposition during the last term would present a strategist discussion of government opposition. I have to say, I'm pretty shocked to hear the highest. Prime Ministers and economic minister almost tell us at the Generals that they can do anything, anything, as long as they are not stopped with distrust. Where do we come from if the authority feels that he has a perfect example of interpreting when and to what degree should the decisions of the Council be made? Do humans see what kind of mental management would be from it? Mr. President. It doesn't have to be that humans are here on a grand ugliness. New members of Parliament allow a course, a course to take when they come in here to learn basic points on the matter of Congress. Forgot to take the current highest. A government at a course that would review the fact that there is a conniving government, that is, the Constitutional order and the seminary, one of the strongest government regulations in the country? [[The president calls.]] Did they miss it completely at first?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u55	President. It's not just that the current government and members of the greater part, hopefully not all members of Congress more than very many, think that the government can do what it wants. Now it's the highest. The minister of independence and the leader, who are in the lesser part of the world, express concern about this: As I have warned repeatedly, we live, not in Congress, but in the majority. If anyone has ever claimed that he is not, we have received it perfectly confirmed from the highest level. The secretary of finance so I suggest that the rest of the council go home just because we don't have anything here to do to the greater part of it. Well, then you'll just keep this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u56	A respectable president. As a response to the talk on the majority and as part of the government, I would like to remind the senators that 63 members of this body are elected in general elections. Of the 63 members, there are certainly 25 members of the administrative body who may be likely to interfere with and get involved in the affairs of the government, but here are also 29 members of the non - ministers. When we talk about the Senate and when I think about defending the Senate under the Icelandic Constitution, I'm not only thinking about it on behalf of 25 member statesmen but also on the 63 democratic elections of members of Congress. It is the council that follows its commission to the nation. The government goes to the council for its commission.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u57	A respectable president. I think it's crystal clear that we have a serious situation at the council. The Senate's situation with the Commission is in a state of confusion, and a respectable president must be deeply concerned about that position. It is important that we speak here at the council's office and that it be clarified and it is fully determined the value, e.g. It's a concierge. I want to pray to the highest. A president to determine if he can't see to it that all the world's highest. Governments here are under discussion on the state of the Generals or at least Government leaders who have had very strange words that we must discuss, not just today, but the next few days.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u58	A respectable president. I'm always glad when people want to talk about democratic authority. But it saddens me in this case because if we're going to talk about a democratic commission, maybe we'll remember the promises for elections that were... A respectable president. My time is getting kind of tight.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u59	The Senator can only continue because the president has measured here when the speech began.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u60	The promise of an election from both the Independence Party and the forwarding party was that they praised national law on the subject. They don't have democratic authority from the vote. They have no fear of being in the nation, they have no democratic authority from the nation themselves, nor will they dare to do so in spite of having promised to ask them questions. Now, they ignore the General Assembly, ignoring 53,555 signatures that were collected last year by the same case, and then ignoring the greatest protests from collapse. If the highest. The financial and economic minister intends to use a democratic agency to strengthen his case is the solution to his very simple national contract. I say for myself, " I miss the suggestion exactly not,'and I don't want to discuss it here. I want to discuss it out there, in the community, with the people where they live. Speaking of distrust. Why should we declare our lack of confidence in the government, why doesn't the government just say that it's a lack of confidence in the Council? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u61	A respectable president. The greater part of it is, Bjarni Benediktsson, and that is why he should have lived up to his clear promises and allowed the Icelanders to vote for it, for it is a greater proportion of Icelanders who control but not more of the Ministers. I would like, sir, a respectable president, to request that when the President of the Generals resort to an unusual resolution of the state's conduct in recent days, and we all expect Prime Ministers and other Ministers in the government to sit here on the Ministry and listen to what the President of the Generalis has to say and what members of Congress have to say about it. Their arrogance has been abundant in recent days, even though they do not run away from the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u62	Mr. President. I'm coming up here to say thank you very much. The President of One K. The Einar of Guðfinnsson for three. First, for allowing the discussion that follows to explain the state of the council with its own declaration and then allowing the discussion to take place. Second, for having in the summer of 2013, already the highest. The minister of state was going to rush into the same inability he seems to be making a living now, then for receiving an independent legal opinion within the council, and on the basis of its highest standards. Secretary of state out of that nonsense. Third, for the radio news at noon Thursday spoke very clearly, pointing out that the letter was nowhere to be found at the end of the letter. In other words, that statement is the highest. There is no violation of the terms on the part of the Member State. And the less important thing is that the man who should weigh most and keep him in foreign affairs, i.e. Yeah. Chairman of the State Department, exactly the same interpretation. There's puncum saliens in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u63	A respectable president. I think deeply after the discussion that was here in question class because I was kind of hoping that some of the highest ones would be there. Ministers of the government understood what the government of Iceland is doing or would at least have the humbleness to comply with the directive. Well, it's not that, more respected President, that the Commission has an independent will or independent power, it's not like that in Iceland. The government only does what the General has committed to it in the form of law or the synopsis, so it is. Not just that this government has an especially evil political bitch and particularly evil content, but we have historically dedicated, dignified president, historical clumsiness and historical disrespect for democracy. It is a long task if the government is going to pull up its pants and not to be remembered specifically for its willingness. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u64	V.E.G. President. The rest of the part, they said it was the highest. Financial and economic ministers, but he didn't say which other things. He must be talking about the greater part of the government on the basis of what's being done. I'd like less than that. A minister says that we're sending people all over the world to monitor campaign control and the implementation of elections. One way we do this is by means of the Council of Europe. What is being examined? One of the most critical features is the position of the ruling authority, the distinction between democracies and dictatorial states, how opposition has been established. I made no comment before the 2009 election when independents gave 600 talks about the President's meeting board. It was their democratic defense to defend a government council, a motion delivered by the forwarding party. [[For example, consider: 600 speeches.]] 600 talks at that time. We don't make any comments about it. We want the Icelandic Parliament to come up and discuss it, and we don't argue about the outcome. And we do not use it: We heard what men were going to say. [[The president calls.]] When the matter is done at the council, we accept the decision. [[The president calls.]] That's when the more part counts.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u65	A respectable president. I think we can just skip it at the council Hall to be talking about some council proposals because it's clearly that there's something for the approval of some undefined major part of the council is what happens when this government makes its decisions. Why are we being caught up in the matter of careful reviewing council rules? It doesn't make any sense, it doesn't mean anything to what's been presented here. Then I'd like to mention it too, because it's the highest. The minister of finance is in the hall, and according to his earlier words, the conclusion of applying for membership in the European Union had been developed in a different way and would like to remind this council that it was represented by all the political parties at the General Assembly during the last term that voted with that proposal. The members of all political parties, including the Independence Party. A respectable president. It is passed by a transverse political convention in this hall and has two political parties, just because it's convenient in this case, in this fight to do so, that conclusion. [[The president calls.]] It's just wrong, because the representatives of five political parties voted with the proposal. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u66	Mr. President. It's all very strange. We planned a discussion on the state of the council, but that case is not discussed because they want to talk about the President's meeting board. I have in the hands of the legal records of the Generals' office on the value of the General Assembly Re-Elections. It states on page 19. 8 That it is in the power of the council to determine whether a government or a minister has followed its conclusions and after experiences of responding in the way that it or more of it considers correct. The only thing that was missing here in criticism of my first talk about the President's conference board was that a theory would arise that my part was in charge. But everyone knows that it is not a rule here or elsewhere in democratic states, nor is it evidence that the government situation is weak, that it is not in charge but that it is given access to matters, and that it can provide for a controversial discussion, that it comes up to the issue, and that it promotes its views. [[Up front.]] That's what it's all about. It is, in fact, incredibly sad to observe what is said here on the state of the synods and to look at a better level through that, of course, it depends on the will of more part of the council if ministers in individual affairs do not act as he does on the council. appeared in the synonym. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] Of course, that is not the case; and this is not the case with humans living on this case because the result is as obvious as it really is as it is here in this legal evaluation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u67	A respectable president. I wouldn't call it a scene, it's a bit more tragic than that. It's about us here, 63 members of Congress, who are the chain for six of six terms, but we're also all representatives of the nation. Of course, our purpose is to change things for the better if possible, to influence the discussion, to draw out different viewpoints, hopefully to reach a better conclusion for the nation, for the general public in the country. That's our job here, and that's why we make comments. In the same legal summary as the highest. The secretary's testimony is now being made that, if it comes from an approved Senate resolution, the General will be informed of such changes and at the same time seek the council's position or part of it to change the trial. Not only does it mean coming to say, " We think we have more to do,'but the matter needs to be discussed. [[The president calls.]] That's what we're here for. Otherwise, we can just wrap it up.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u68	A respectable president. Here at a council hall, the natural debate is concerning the state of democracy and the foundation of democracy. Here's a reason why we're here. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Secretary of finance is flying. He says, "The government supports more things, so no vote is required. " That's what the word says. Therefore, the government can make all kinds of decisions, including breaking up the European Union conversation. I believe that this decision has not been made because the government has no right to do so. V.E.G. The minister seems to think so, and the highest. Secretary of State that the government has permission to make such a huge decision because it supports more things. That's a serious argument. There's only one way to confirm more things - and we have to stick to our plans - and that's a vote. Actually, this is the big issue that a great many, including leaders in this government, wanted the nation to make that decision. [[The president calls.]] How could the government conclude that they could make such a decision in this matter? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's amazing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u69	A respectable president. You can see that you suspect in this case that the government does not have much of it. She has made some sort of head count in the hall, and she has concluded that by doing so she cannot be read out of the words of the highest level. Secretary of State on Saturday, when he said: "It seems to me that the council is not interested in handling this matter. Of course, it is very tragic for the government to be in the position of not having more than one part to complete the case here. She took it about a year ago into a foreign press committee and didn't get it out again, that day upstairs. V.E.G. The prime minister was asked here at the dawns what case he could mention other than the payment of his government. He couldn't mention one thing, not one. Of course, people knew what was going to happen when the letter was presented and what kind of compromise would be made at the council and what sort of action would be in society. Of course, it's just a thought to disguise the impotence of the government that is becoming absolute. And when the government is in the position of not being able to sue through Congress and is not authorized, it is not supported to end these cases, of course, it is to seek a vote. [[The president calls.]] It's supposed to end this government and give an election. [[The president calls.]] That's the only right thing to do in this situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u70	V.E.G. President. I'm not going to go through a material discussion about what's to be followed, as others have done for the last 45 minutes and discuss the subject of a special discussion to begin with. Also, I'm not going to have a material discussion about the secretary's letter that will be discussed at the council tomorrow. I just want to draw attention to the fact that, as I understood, this is the basis for a special discussion on the state of the Senate to allow for discussions about it. I understood that it had been negotiated with members of the council this morning, but for the last 45 minutes, at least has discussed the exact subject at the end of this meeting for Presidential Conference Board. I wonder and ask the highest. President: Why do you have a special discussion on this subject as requested by the management side if the government's opposition is going to use all other opportunities to discuss the same matter? [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u71	Mr. President. Just to make it clear, there was a bit of truth in the case of the highest degree. Financial and economic ministers. He correctly quotes from the Legal Summary of the Office of the Generals on the value of the synods, which says, by permission of the president: After all, it is the council itself that determines whether it falls apart or changes its conclusion. At the same time, it is in the power to determine whether a government or a minister has followed its conclusions and after experiences of responding in a way that it or more of it thinks is correct. You can see that at the end of the summary, as mentioned earlier, by permission of the president: In view of the foregoing, it must be assumed that the General shall be informed of such changes and at the same time seek the stand of the council or the greater part of it for a change in the trial. The synopsis that was initiated included negotiations and the completion of a national agreement on the outcome. The trial is being adjusted and then, at least According to the Generalis Office, to do so by looking for approval of the greater part at the council, and it also states that this is done by a judicial hearing. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This is the result. This is not because they do not rely on it, do not rely on the proposal through the council. [[The president calls.]] They're sacrificing a seminarial decree to make it clear. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u72	Mr. President. Because of the highest. The Director of Economics and Economic Affairs has twice referred to the General's Department's legal summary of the terms and selected specific text for reading, I'm going to allow myself to intervene in that report in another location, which says, by permission of the president: By such instructions, the Allied Council has challenged the Constitution and, at the same time, its position of authority against the European Commission. With this in mind, there will be no other conclusion than that in the government the initiative is required to inform the Council if she is not going to follow the votes that have been written to her. In view of Ólafur's son Jóhannesson, the Court's work seems to be well thought of as a ruling warrant or a warrant on which the European Commission is based, it appears, at the same time, to assume that a new member of the Parliament will describe its course by means of a new Senate resolution. Why didn't you read the highest. Financial and economic minister brings up this text, which, in principle, comes to a different conclusion, but he has tried to argue that the Commission is self-imposed to interpret when it is bound by the Generals' conclusions and when it is not? [[Exactly.]] [[The president calls.]] That's not the conclusion of this legal text, the highest. Financial and economic ministers. [[You should read on.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u73	You should read on.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u74	[[The president calls.]] Yeah, I was just reading. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u75	Mr. President. I concluded at my meeting as the president of the General Assembly with the chairman of Congress this morning that we were due after the unparated inquiry to the minister at this meeting will be replaced by the traditional work of this weekday, the general council of Congress, and the president remembered on the basis of the 61rd Psalm 61. Congress is making a statement as to how the case is viewed at the General Assembly that has been discussed during the past few days after a letter. Secretary of state to the Presidency of the European Union from the past Thursday. My declaration will be followed by a discussion of all classes involved. No one can doubt where I stand, but I will speak in my language as Speaker, and I will not share speech lesson with anyone else. All of us know the controversies of this case from the time the General Assembly agreed to agree on July 16, 2009, on the terms of the European Parliament's application. As a result, a foreign minister on behalf of the Icelandic government submitted an application for involvement in the relationship. So the campaign was carried out by the minister of foreign affairs, but with the approval and political support of the majority of the council, as he was then appointed. The conclusion on a procedure referred to the detailed opinion of the greater part of the State Department, which gave some precise guidance on how the application should be conducted. As early as 2013, the government decided to interrupt the discussion, at least ... beforetheelection. When a new government was formed after the 2013 election, it was clear, including, By its declaration of policy, the new administration groups did not aim to continue their discussion with the European Union. This was made clear in a public discussion, as well as in the disintegration of a process that had been established and disbanded by negotiation committees. During the last legislation, the government gave a proposal for the resolution of member events, but it did not become exhausted. In this context, a letter is the highest. The Minister of Foreign Affairs wrote to the Commission last Thursday, where the government relies on its plans and further considers that there will be no part of the EU search for Iceland as an applicant state. The question we face is this: Did the secretary of state have some legal way of passing the counsel of the Generals and the Generals? In other words, was the rank of the Generals? My answer to that question is that it is not, and I would like to back it up in a few words. The General Assembly is at the same time a legislation of legislatures and a meeting of representatives elected by democratic elections. This includes the fact that the Council can describe its policies or decisions on specific matters without resorting to legislation. As noted by scholars, e.g. Professor Thorarensen, however, has no legal conclusions and is therefore not legally binding. However, this is not the only way scholars interpret it. The key and the main argument is that lending to the interpretation of a legal binding value is not in accordance with the exercise of power analysis regulations of Article 3. The Constitution, the legislature, the jurist and the execution. In effect, paying attention to the opinion of the council would be turning aside from the organization we live in, that the Council describes his will by resolution or by establishing laws on important matters. This is what this is all about. However, the translators'interpretation of the Generals' activities of the Generalis is disintegration, not binding government beyond what results from the Council of Congress. For example, in various cases it has a high political value and is the reflection of the 2009 application of EU member countries on the basis of a clear example. I don't think I'll belittle it at any time. I assigned the General Assembly of late 2013 to provide an independent legal summary of the values of the synonyms. It was carried out by a report made by the State Department of State Department for its request. It discusses when a new government does not feel bound by the resolutions of the previous council and when it comes to whether the government should take the initiative to inform the Council of a new or changed position on the conclusion. The summary outlines key issues and is limited to conclusions that are not based on law or constitution. Special attention should be given to the duties of the Minister to inform us of the changed viewpoints of the Generals and to review the subject of dancing correctly. For further explanation, the scholarly discussion of Norwegian rights is further explained, and he concluded that the Council's decision is based on a governmental basis and, in addition, that the resolutions of the Council are generally followed, thus meaningful to the government to inform the General Assembly of the new or changed position on the matter. As described in the summary, changes were made in the General Assembly by law No. 84/2011, on the duty of prime minister to submit a report on the conduct of the council arrangement, as is now 8 mg. 45. g. At current conferences, and this rule has been followed. The objective of the arrangement was to strengthen the assembly's position and to better ensure that its conclusions were carried out. From the rank of the Generals as the Chieftain of the State and Congress, the Council can direct its conclusions to the implementation of the European Commission's individual affairs, and there are countless examples. On the other hand, there are rare cases where Congress resolutions are directly removed. But the example of whaling comes to mind. At that time, it was decided that the decision to ban whaling was made in 1983. However, years later, in 1999, another resolution authorized this fishing arrangement was adopted, and it specifically stated that the decision since 1983 did not prevent it. However, whale fishing did not begin again until a government minister issued a 2006 policy on whaling, seven years after approval of the Council's decree. What the 2009 conclusion regarding the EU impact is clear that it has been disfellowshipped in three cases, beginning 2013 with a break in the discussion, in the summer of 2013, the negotiations were officially stopped and the negotiation committees have been released in the fall of the year, and, finally, the letter of the Foreign Minister has been granted that the government's position with the EU negotiations will not be adopted again and that Iceland should no longer be recognized as an application. At the same time, it is clear that the resolution by the Generals has not been changed or returned. For one thing, due to the political importance of the EU issue, I felt that in 2013 there was a need for a concierge proposal to break up if it was planned to cancel the Member State's application. Not everyone agreed with me, but it was done, as everyone knows. There is a sharp difference between the suggestion and the letter as the highest. The secretary of state has sent the judges of the EU, which state: Iceland's government has no plans to re-start its member case. Furthermore, this new policy of any commitment on the part of the previous government in connection with Memberal negotiations. In view of the above, it is the firm stand of the government that Iceland should not be viewed as an EU candidate state and that the EU should correct its procedure. It is obvious that these two differences are different, the proposal from the previous year for the revocation of the Memberal application and now the letter. Others have pointed in addition to me, which includes the presentation of a foreign minister's letters to be viewed as a diplomatic method to end the negotiations without formal withdrawal of the application. Also, Professor Ragnhildur Helgadóttir, of the University of Reykjavík, says that it is a political declaration that clearly has great value but does not change the legal state from what has been presented. In my mind, the key point is that with General Assembly resolution in July 2009, the issue under discussion was set in motion. This was supported by the political will of the present government. The secretary who now handles foreign affairs has on the basis of the administrative part that is now under way to inform the EU in charge of the current government's will. In spite of this, it is evident that the resolution of the Generals has not been changed or returned. It is then in the power of the Generals to decide the rest, if that would be the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u76	A respectable president. The majority of the nation chose senators who praised national law on the continuation of their discussions, but most of the country is not in charge because Bjarni son of Benediktsson betrayed his promises. That is why democracy in Iceland and the government of the country is in a deep and severe crisis. Bjarni son of Benediktsson has undermined the weak position of the Allegris and the political forces by betraying inseparably presumptuous and unpredictable ways their crystal - clear promises to voters. He has added a back cover with the forwarding party to shun the General Assembly and to counter its current conclusion. Similarly, he has disregarded his own head of the State Department and has disregarded clear laws on consultation with the General Assembly in major foreign affairs, which all must see in the Member State's application. A respectable president. In addition, it is now said that he negotiated this at the beginning of the season but made a statement in the Lake Saturday that it would be a national agreement, thus using or at least mistakenly by the General Assembly. The members' application is valid. I refer to the confirmation of this by the President of the Generals. The person who has applied is an application State. The secretary of state is out of control, for it is from a government that is afraid of both its council and its nation. It would also be a serious objective for the nation of Israel and the future if this government was not only to betray his promises but also to undermine the possibility of future proceedings by trying to destroy the application by not keeping it open. It is our requirement, a respectable president, that the secretary of state's letter be retracted. They try to say abroad that it is about stopping the discussion, but at home they try to say that nothing is really true. It is our demand that the nation be permitted to bring this matter to its end. If Bjarni son of Benediktsson does not have a manpower to keep his campaign promise, that the people will be able to accomplish it, then it is minimally necessary that he does not destroy the possibility of the next assembly to settle the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u77	President wants less of it. Councilmen are required to use traditional comments here at the General Assembly to address the minister and the members of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u78	A respectable president. Congress in Iceland was introduced in 1904, as is known of most people. According to the usual explanation, they alone can be ministers, or more, of which would like to support or endure a office, such as Ólafur Jóhannesson, law professor and former prime minister, expressed it in their writings on the Icelandic regime. The meaning highlights the authority of the council as a representative of the National Assembly, and it has not been doubted in this country to the end of 111 years. The independence of the Parliament and decisions in legislation and policy matters to the Commission is very clear. Congress has power and can never, and must never be a financial agency for the ideals of the Honourable Minister. So it is a very serious matter when individual ministers use cunning and foggy statements to go behind the Allied Council as high as the Supreme Court. The minister of foreign affairs has made or tried to perform this amazing operation, which we have seen today. And I don't know, Mr President, what to call this. Is it dictatorial or just simple? Consequences are the means by which the council can reason on foreign matters. It takes a new interpretation to change what is in force. When I'm at the highest. The secretary of state formally announces, with a letter to the international agency, that Iceland's position is viewed as having the authority to make these declarations. V.E.G. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is a member of the government... who is represented by the Generals. The government has an obligation to consult with the II Parliamentary Foreign Affairs Committee under Constitutional law in the case of major foreign affairs. The letter received was the highest. Ministers of foreign affairs have assumed that the minister is not sending a letter on such a big matter without a national law on how to handle it. To report to the European Union that Iceland is no longer listed as an application nation is a major foreign matter. The Agency is represented by the Generals at any given time by the greater part of the council. When it comes to ensuring consultation with the council, the whole council is being referred, not just to the parties. That's the top one. A government ignores all agreements with memory, which is completely unnatural and unacceptable. The presentation gives a picture of the council that it is not worth consulting on large policy issues. The government feels that just before taking action, it is enough to meet with members of the government. Then we just heard this on the radio. Is it not possible to expect the highest order, a respectable president? Ministers know what to do, and what that involves?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u79	Mr. President. I thank you for the initiative of the Council President to break up the council's position. I believe it was a success to have special discussions like this and to thank him for his words here and for the explanation of the situation. As everyone knows about this, the application for involvement in the European Union, is rooted in 2009. There is no way to discuss the situation or the general case without reviewing the beginning of the matter. For example, it was here at the Hall of Congress that numerous members of Congress voted for this expedition described their warnings. Hv. The head of the left green at the time, Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, said here under discussion, with the permission of a president: ▪ We also have the right to do so at any stage of the situation, which is to suggest that negotiations be terminated and that at the Council also be done. In other words, the second group that stood by the synonym reserved the right to abandon everything and - to propose it, yes, I had the word right here. [[Take it up: suggest it.]] [[It's the front call of the Senate Hall.]] [[Up front.]] I know this stuff gets on the nerves of the council leader left green, he's got to hold back while I've been here. [[Up front.]] I'm gonna let you guys just finish, Mr President. I'm gonna let the government stand and finish this right here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u80	The president would like to ask members of the council for a sound in the Hall and give it to the person who has had the opportunity to present his case here, as we expect everyone to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u81	No doubt it is difficult to agree with this, but this is fundamental, how the matter was introduced in the first place. That's important. In January 2013, these same groups made a decision after a terrible march over the same matter, which made it clear to all Icelanders that a material discussion with the European Union is not possible if the mind is not relevant. If there's no solid body of Congress behind him, if the Ministers don't have ministers who are planning to advance the case, it's premeditated. That's what we're supposed to learn from our last term. All the trouble, the conflict that took place - I'm not going to trace it, I've done it before, people know it - is to testify that this is not the case. We now have a government where no Minister supports involvement in the European Union. [[Up front.]] We have been classed in the government and have a greater part here at a council that neither of us are heading for the European Union. Yet, those who were involved in the last term, as if it were only natural and normal to demand for the government that is now involved in the European Union for Iceland, that they simply adjust the rule of the European Union to the European Union, and then continue with it. Of course, this is an amazing statement. I know people are talking against a better mind. [[For example, consider: Not promises.]] You're talking against a better mind. [[To the point, don't cheat.]] Hv. The members of Congress are calling forward not to betray. What has been the most important part of this process is the conversation with the nation that it is only normal to look in the package, to produce something. May I ask the members of the council here who could inform those who are listening for one point agreed on the discussion with the European Union, just one thing that was agreed on, just one thing. An entire ideal period of time, longer than any other nation that has entered the European Union, was developed. Did they get a deal on one point? Do you know how to address and present yourself to the Icelandic public some of the controversial issues that were discussed in the Committee's greater part of the foreign committee? Could the situation be explained as to the European Union's fishing policy? No, it couldn't be done. The only thing that happened during the entire last term was that we were identified as members of the EEA Convention and that we had entered into the sections that touched the inner market correctly. It was stamped by the European Union. We closed the chapters we had already introduced into Icelandic correctly. This is one of the basic elements that you should take care of when discussing Iceland and the European Union and the possibility of continuing here. I must tell you in my own small way that I'm also very concerned about the way some people speak here last time, such as the left - green senators. Do they really want to continue on the same terms? And how will they, after the experience they've had in their last term, apply at the same time the ideologies to establish a contract that didn't go up for four years and their own policy of keeping Iceland outside the European Union? How will humans do so? There's been quite a talk about national pay and refer to my words. I've never once for all time excluded all national laws on this matter. The only thing I have noted is that it is entirely unrealistic to expect a government that does not intend to enter the European Union to lead such a adaptable conversation. This is not realistic. In fact, it seems to me that when people get out of this platform, most people get the sense of it; when they discuss it outside the council hall, most members of the council now seem to understand it. [[Up front.]] It is in the context that this matter must be discussed. And that is in line with all the warning that men agreed on in a previous Senate resolution that this matter needs to be discussed. Tomorrow the secretary of state will review his report on this matter. This matter is completely natural in line with the conclusion of the last election, the policy of the states, the government covenant, and the declarations made since the government was formed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u82	A respectable president. Like others, I would like to thank you for this discussion about the state of the council with the Commission. I was not about to give a long talk about the European Union or a left - green position in that regard, but from the highest point of view. The secretary of finance requested a discussion about the position that I know he finds hard to understand is that we have agreed on it at our national meetings that, despite our position that Iceland should not walk in the EU, we should stand outside the relationship, we feel that this case is of the order of magnitude that it is normal for the nation to come to absolution, to seek the guidance of the nation. I know that some people have a why. Councilmen and the highest. Counsellors find it a political option to accept a course that you don't even agree with yourself, but if you want to promote more direct democracy that I want you to accept, you also have to accept sometimes and can follow that course. It's a pinch, of course, I'll admit it's a pinch, but I don't think it's impossible. European matters were intended to be discussed in particular tomorrow. I think what we're discussing today, which is the Congress itself, is just as important. We agreed on a number of people here in 2010, because we now speak about the terms of the synonyms. The 63 of us here in the hall agreed that it was important for the Generals to defend and strengthen their independence and basic role. Has the Council defended its independence and central role when we tolerate - and then I'm not defending ourselves in the government opposition because we don't tolerate it, but I look particularly at members of the majority parties - that decisions are made that will be decided against the previous approved differences and that they may not even be introduced to the General Assembly or to the General Department of State? However, it says in Congress that the Foreign Affairs Committee should be a minister of foreign affairs to the Ministry for all major foreign affairs. Then, in an unjudged article, the minister of state says that he has not considered this to be a major foreign matter. I think, more dignified President, that this article needs to be strengthened in the revised law of Congress if it's to be determined when decisions are major or not, because if it's not a major decision, I don't know what, this letter probably means anything, and there may be one interpretation. Iceland is a republic with a conniving government in the current constitution and ministers are employed here by the Generals. The interpretation does not say that men feel that they are capable of taking the initiatives they receive from the General and taking the commission of the Generals, since they believe they have more of the council behind them. That interpretation doesn't work. Then the matter must be taken to the council, with a greater proportion of the Generals involved. This is true when men intend to change their course. But I'm worried if we're in general. This does not apply just to the elaborate interpretation since 2009. What did we agree in 2013? Do we not agree with the development team plan, which is defined in an approved Parliamentary arrangement how Iceland intends to expand its contributions to development cooperation? What was the first act of government? Yes, it was disappearing from that council resolution and has not yet been presented for that matter. What happened to the expansion of the green economy, an approved Parliamentary resolution of the expansion of the green economy adopted by all approved votes? What's the expansion of the green economy today? It's a budget for a house peace, which is a very worthy case and good, not the expansion of the green economy approved here. Happily, I can give an example of conclusions that have been respected. I mentioned two conclusions earlier on how we have developed our attitude in matters pertaining to Palestine and Israel. I also mentioned a conclusion about whaling, which I don't agree with, but she has been respected, and a respectable president covered it earlier in his speech. But there are other conclusions that seem to cross this table. I wondered whether we need to reconsider just how we work here, how exactly are the conclusions made by the Council, working hard to accept and work that will keep them going, so that this can not only make a decision on its own, in particular, to change the course or to do it through a budget without any specific discussion being asked to make that change. I mention the development teamwork as an example of a decision to leave approved Congress on a budget. It's not a good thing, Mr. Honorable President, so I remind you of the approval that we will defend and strengthen our independence and basic role. Clearly, if we are to do so, we need to improve our skills. I think that a respectable president has decided to take this matter on the program showing that he is prepared to do so because we cannot tolerate the possibility of being appointed by the executives to believe that it is enough to say that he has more to do it and to do it as you please. Thus, we cannot work if we respect the council. I want to trust that we're going to succeed and make a difference because we're not gonna make it. At that time, the smaller portion of the council may as well packed together and go home.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u83	V.E.G. President. Here's where we'll talk about the state of the council. This is good, for voices are constantly hearing that their position is not good. I'm glad we've put together a frame of discussion that's good for all of us. Superficial words that have been dropped within the council and beyond are not designed to increase the respect of the council. Various concepts have taken place during the discussion, and there have been reports of Congress. But it seems that not all humans have the same understanding of the concept. The Constitution means that a greater part of the Generals needs to support a minister. The Order is a ruling order that supports Article 1. The Constitution, which reads: ◯Island is a republic with a conniving regime. In other words, a government is in the shelter of the Generals, where Congress resides, and ministers need to obey the order of the council. Does Congress mean, though, that the council is in control? Not necessarily. Congress really means that a government needs the support of a greater part of the council. Government policy has been clear since the beginning. The Foreign Secretary of State reported on his position at the beginning of the election period, so that it was made clear to the council that a minister does not believe he is bound to the Congress's decree. However, calling a recent letter of the secretary of state to the head of the European Union, which confirms policy and explains the situation to attack the Senate indicates a possible lack of knowledge of what the Congress of Congress means and what Congress means. The situation here is that smaller things at any given time can take a hostage case and attack the council by preventing the application of the council's will. It's a product weapon that doesn't increase the respect of the Generals, for its appearance in a file and eternal talks about the President's meeting board is not good. When is the right time to change this, I don't know, but I don't think it's important for a House Committee to try to figure out how to find ways in which a work ethic can become more progressive and more efficient, because even if something has gone by, it doesn't mean that it should continue. May all of us succeed in winning our country and our nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u84	A respectable president. As a result, if the discussion had been carried on with full force and not interrupted, we would likely have a contract now, we would have a contract in our hands that would answer very much questions. In my opinion, we would very likely have a contract in our hands that would involve some kind of special solution in the fishing industry and a very acceptable agricultural negotiation. I think we can live with a deal that we could easily approve. But the big question in this context is, why is it so difficult? Why can't we give the nation the opportunity to take an informed stand on the basis of this huge issue that we've been arguing over here for decades? Why is it so hard? Why can we not do this as did other nations? We have been told in a bright future that we have a clear understanding that this government does not want to go to the European Union and that it has interrupted the discussion. In her government covenant, she said that she would do so, but the groups claiming that this government also made it clear before the last election that the nation would always be in charge of whether these talks would continue. We have emphasized that this is the case. What a contrast it is to interrupt the discussion because of this reality in the politics and to break it down altogether! There's a big difference. Government parties cannot claim that it is a minor decision, that it is just something that has become reality. The question facing is simply this: If a new government takes over in Iceland, can't it continue with its talks? Yes, it's confirmed today. V.E.G. The president has completely determined that the discussion will only be terminated by his own decision at the council. I'm celebrating that statement, it's very important, and I feel that it has been right from the very beginning of this storm. Of course, the government can't make such a decision without seeking the approval of the council and the nation, I mean. It takes a decision to end the discussion. Then there's a bit of a tragic reality. What do government leaders have, chief? Ministers, are you thinking about the last few days? From their comments during the past few days, it has been suggested that this letter, sent abroad, was a matter of independent decision to break up the discussion. That's what they said. Now these ministers simply need to go to their homes for a moment, think the matter, and try to explain to themselves what they meant by this. It is absolutely this: It is crystal clear, and of course it is crystal clear, that it is only the Allied, and it is the nation's highest priority in terms of the promises made, which can decide to end the discussion. I think the conversation went well. I believe that many opinions have been answered in the interview, the highest. Minister Bjarni Benediktsson. For example, many claimed that young Icelanders would have to join a European army if we became members of the European Union. The answer was totally clear, and the presentation was deleted when the safety section was closed. Then there was all kind of propaganda that foreigners would possess through a potential agreement on involvement in the European Union all of Iceland's resources. This was strongly answered during the parting discussion. This was naturally the unpleasant part of the meeting for those who do not wish to walk in the European Union, questions were answered, and significant results were achieved. [[A contract?]] That's why I belong - I belong to the part of the Icelanders who want to continue their talks on the basis that has been built. [[Let's face it, these answers...]] The greatest news today is that the discussion has not been terminated, and that is good. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u85	Madam President. According to the Legal Review of the Council of Congress, since the beginning of this election period, the Generals' conclusions are binding to the government, not legal binding, but binding. It's based on the Council of Congress. That's the way it has been. If they're going to change because of it today for this purpose, they're going to break a council rule and set a new example. It is important to stress, and it is something that has been presented in the discussion, that all the conclusions adopted by the Council and have not been formally canceled by a new council resolution are still in effect. This has been confirmed by the U.S. President of the Generals and is listed in the Legal Review of the Office of the Generals. In addition, the sum adds that if a government or a minister does not intend to follow the council's decree, they should take the initiative to inform the council and if the trial is to be changed, a greater part of the council should be consulted by a new council. Let's get this together. Disregarding the interpretation requires a report, starting with the report, the failure to do so, but a change in the court order requires a new council hearing that needs to be approved. This is quite explained by the findings of the Legal Summary of the Office of the Generals. Now the question is: Is here an adjustment in the case here? It seems now that the president of the Parliament does not view the matter as being terminated and therefore is not a modified procedure. It seems also that the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee agrees, that he has published it, but the heads of the Party, Independence Party, and Progress both agree that this amounts to breaking up the party. That's the situation we have today. This must be explained. It must be explained whether to follow the Council of Congress that if the matter is changed, a change from the Senate resolution that a new council may, of course, have to be made by a new assembly. We need to be clear about this, although much has been explained in this matter. In the 2009 General Assembly resolution on EU Member States' application, the President's permission says: The General concluded to hide the government from putting in the application for Iceland's membership in the EU and, after the discussions with the relationship, the National Convention on an upcoming Member State contract. In preparation for discussions and their organization, the government will follow the standards of the practicality and main interest shown in the opinion of the greater part of the foreign organisation. It presents a wide range of practices that do not seem to be being followed now if it is so that the European Commission should be viewed as breaking up. If they're being torn up, they're not following after the Congress, they're clearly breaking it. That's what we need to get out of here. If there has been a violation of the synopsis, the Congress's order has been offered to change from the synopsis, to turn it into a fundamental embellishment, if that becomes a policy change, it should be made with another council-sense proposal. If so, we have far more government laws than we should. Then the council has been reduced and the Commission has gained greater authority. If so, we need to revise many other things. If this is how you can do it, if you can take that kind of power, then you need to reexamine all your cooperation at Congress. So this must be clear. Let's call it a little more clear. If the highest. The President of Generalis has concluded that the decision is not being contrary, it is not being retracted, then the President of the Generals and the Presidency Committee must be reported. Otherwise, the European Commission may believe that this is exactly what has been done, that they have cut out some business. So where are we? There has been an example that the government can set up such a situation on its own. Well, then it's not good.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u86	V.E.G. President. For one thing, I'd like to thank the highest. The President of Allegis, The Einar K. The Son of Guðfinnsson, for the purpose of this discussion, gives the council a report and an explanation of his viewpoint, including this unprecedented letter. The minister of foreign countries carried as mail to Europe is not breaking up the European Union and the need for a new draft proposal. That is in harmony with the outcome that already occurred. For the first time, the minister of foreign affairs felt that he could end talks by dictatorial contributions. It was discussed here, and among other things, Aldulis's chief lawyer came to the conclusion that the government acknowledged by making a conquistador of debates. It was not so settled because the government did not have the strength to follow that issue. This is fundamental, and thanks to the president for doing so. I'll tell him as his first vice president that I agree completely with him that here's a new suggestion if they're going to walk this walk. Second of all, I have to guess what's been here from the highest. The prime minister who tells us that he has had a discussion with the European Union or its agencies on how this letter should be or how to take us off the list of applying people. I think it's a search for the Congress in Iceland to refuse to discuss such a proposal at the General Assembly and these ideas, but it's discussed with international institutions and others in the world. It's not working. It's a plot against the Council. The prime minister described it here and the highest. The minister of foreign affairs, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, has also described outside the serious issue that he really has three opinions about the nature of this letter. These views have developed in these last days, and that is a very serious matter. If the letter sent in one way cannot be interpreted, but can be done from day to day, it shows the dictatorial qualities shown at the highest level. Minister, and that will never be tolerated by the Council. In addition, the highest grade was observed. The minister of state in a TV show last night agreed on that the government conference was going to betray the election promise made by the odd minds of the party in all elections and included elections, promising that there would be debates about violations of violations. There's been a betrayal. A respectable president. As one of the general presidents of the Generals, I find it scary when I'm at the highest level. Secretary of finance says: "Why should this government have a rich obligation to approach the council? I've considered a few things, such as the dictatorships of this Minister and this government, and that the Council will never be subject to. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u87	Madam President. I'm glad to hear it. It has been stated by the president earlier that the interpretation of the European Union's terms of membership is valid. As far as I could hear, though, I did. A minister of finance claimed that it was not in effect. I hope he listened to the president and took his words into account. V.E.G. The secretary of finance also said that conflicts were bad. Therefore, the decision is made in this way; it was to be avoided in a conflict, only to use bacteria to do nothing wrong. We hear from the outside, in the East, that the public in Iceland is not interested in a revolution. On March 12, I listened to the usual news, and I heard the most amazing news of a letter. Secretary of state to the European Union. I have to admit, I hardly understood the meaning. I couldn't believe it really happened, that some minister thinks he had the authority to do this, let alone the government's. Then I got a bad feeling because it's a procedure that's completely unacceptable in a democracy with a conniving government. The executives of the Management Board can surmise to a cottage and agree that the European Union should be cut off, but such a decision, a policy-making decision, is not made without the approval of the Generals' approval. It was tried here last winter and it was the highest. During an interview yesterday, the minister of foreign affairs claimed that the government had prevented it. I thank you for the faith of the highest degree. A minister has us, and we are quite powerful when necessary, but that was, of course, not relying on the matter through the council, for they were not convinced that they would have more to do with it. Worse yet, in an interview with the highest. A minister of state yesterday also stated that the Independence Party sacrificed a promise of a national fee, perhaps on this same vacation, what I know about their weddings. Now we wonder: What is the price we will pay? Was it a drop in hunting costs right away? Was it an increase in food tax, or are we expecting more trajectory to atone the Independence Party for lying to its voters? It remains that the secretary's letter does not change the situation of Iceland as an applicant, even though negotiations are not in progress during this terms of election.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u88	V.E.G. President. There are a number of factors that are worth killing on in this discussion, of course, that are primarily concerned with the state of the council and the arrangement of Congress, but less on the subject itself, even though the discussion has been somewhat broad. Before I go into the formality of the matter, and including my understanding of the legal situation, it is essential that you keep in mind the reality, the political context, because when people come up in the public chair and talk like they're breaking up some conversation, it indicates that there's something to talk about, that there's something going on, that there's something going on. Is that so? No, it hasn't been for a long time. For more than two years, the situation has not been changing. In some areas, perhaps most important to Icelanders, nothing has been happening for four years, not since 2011. [[Up front.]] In 2011 a discussion on the issues of EU discussions that all knew were the most important and the most difficult, i.e. Seafood and agriculture. It all stopped in 2011. Then, in January 2013, a former government stopped discussions on political grounds. In fact, a statement indicated that it was a temporary slowing down, but the fact was that it was all set to stop, except for the possible technical consultation of officials. It was declared that no political decisions would be made; no negotiations would take place on political grounds between Iceland and the EU then. That was 2013, in January 2013, more than two years ago. After the start of the current government, it became clear and made it clear that the government and the greater part here at a council that it would support would not continue with that discussion. This was shown in a government contract, and it was discussed at the council, it was observed everywhere, and it was discussed with the General State Department of State. Then, when the government released negotiation groups and negotiation committees in the fall of 2013, it was crystal finished that all who had been working on these matters on our part were moved to other jobs, both officials and then those appointed to treat negotiation committees and negotiation groups. That was the fall of 2013. Is something being cut off now? I don't think so. I think there are some questions regarding the formality of the matter with the council that we need to discuss in this regard. It has been reported that in the summer of 2009, the council adopted a process, which was initiated. It went on during the election period to arrive at the times I described earlier, but it has been clear from the fact that the present government and the current body of Congress did not intend to follow that conclusion as agreed in the summer of 2009. There hasn't been any secret, it's been very calm. In fact, there has been a great deal of quarreling over this during the council and in the Federal Affairs Committee. It's been handled, it's been prepped. This situation, as well as the generality of the council, is made up of two kinds. Some interpretation procedures are legal or supportive in a constitution, and they are associated with more commitments for a minister or a government in order to enforce them. Others are not, and the commitment value, or the binding value for a minister or a government in such terms, is, of course, primarily political. If a minister or a government does not enforce the requirements of such controversies, as is the case, then the Congress has to criticize the Minister for it at the council, thus upholding or maintaining a moral criticism. And if they disagree with a minister's case in this matter or inactivity, they have the ultimatum to offer distrust. This is precisely what the Constitution order crystals, and this is the case with the Order of Congress, not otherwise. This is the point of the matter. As to the other aspects of this matter, I hope we have an opportunity to discuss further tomorrow, but I would like to say it on the matter of consultation or non-election with the Directorate of State that I restate on what I have said publicly on the subject that I don't think it was here on such a major policy change or a new policy course on the part of the government that it would require a special consultation with a foreign committee. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But we have the opportunity to discuss these matters in a special discussion or in the morning report after lunch.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u89	Mr. President. First in very short terms as to whether or to what degree it is for the execution of a judicial hearing. It is sufficient to quote the results of this report on the legal review, which says: To the rights of the administration, the Generals' conclusions are considered. - They're part of the national administration rights. - And direct to the government is binding on the government on the basis of the Constitution. It thus becomes evident that governments generally adhere to the resolutions of the General Assembly. Still says: It is also the conclusion of this summary that the government, or after an incident by an associate minister, should take the initiative to inform the Council if she does not intend to follow its conclusions. Has given special support to this rule by changing the Council in 2011. Still later, that is the final words of this summary: In view of the foregoing, it must be assumed that the Council will be informed of such changes (i.e. changes in the treatment of matters - ▪ and at the same time, seek the stand of the council or the greater part of it for a change in the treatment of matters. Second, there is a political and political tradition for the greater extent of foreign policy development in the hands of the Generals than in the general population. The General has re-created Iceland's policy on foreign affairs, and there has never been a debate that if the General has clearly established such issues, then policy has been established until another decision has been made. A fine example is Iceland's attitude toward Palestine, which in three cases has been totally developed by the Council itself, in 1990 and then twice after the turn of the century, the last time the Council agreed to commit the European Commission to accept the independence and sovereignty of Palestine within the 1967 border. Has anyone thought that this conclusion is not valid? Has anyone questioned whether foreign ministers have since carried out it and applied it? No. Finally, what did the secretary's letter include? It was not a recall. There was no announcement of loss between Iceland and the European Union on participation. No, there was an announcement that the government didn't want Iceland to be considered an application state. This includes a defense not only of the highest value but also of the highest degree. The president and chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, who minimizes the letter of a foreign minister, saying that it was not a violation of the obligation to consult with the State Department to introduce it there first because it was nothing. It's gonna leave me alone, keep me there. It's not a recall of the application, it's just a description of the government of Iceland or the feeling from the inside that the government doesn't want Iceland to be an application state. However, she does not want the application to be canceled, does not report it. This is not how we can shape the national foreign policy, either in dealing with the Council or with other sources.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u90	A respectable president. It makes you think deeply about how different viewpoints appear here at the hands of the governmental parties as to what has happened. It's really since nothing happened; people just wrote a letter about what was going on, and there's no story, and it's just over to the fact that we're at the beginning of the line in this particular case. It is natural, but in addition to this, it does not agree on the general value of the synoptic arrangement against the council, so there is also going out and south by interpretation. It's just a real challenge, a respectable president, to keep threads in these discussions. But I think it is very important that we thus understand, all council members, that if there are doubts about the state of the Senate, it is so important that the doubt should be interpreted in favor of the democracy, i.e. That we should first look out for the democracy, the election, the commission to the council, and then our commission to the Commission. That's the way we're supposed to win. I am worried that when ministers speak here and interpret these doubts, and this question is always in the interests of the executives. In fact, it was crystalline in its highest form. The secretary of finance when he cried out over the hall to the greater part, which was basically the low point of today's discussion. The leading issue last week also exposes the association of this government with democracy. A decision is made after consultation with the European Union, after consultation with the terrible European Union on Tuesday last week. The government's pride is making a decision at the long table of the Council. And what happens? Will the prime minister come out to the stairs and tell us what the outcome is? No. Coming to the stairs, a foreign minister says: "What are we going to do now? No. And the next day, there's a group meeting in the board, and what's done? It was decided at a government meeting: So let's not share this with the members of Congress? Was that a decision, or was it a coincidence? All government ministers went on their way not to tell their own people what happened, not their own people. And so forth, we know the continuation of history with the letter on Thursday, upset here on Friday and today. This association with democracy and lack of understanding of our status - these are the beginnings of a very long and detailed discussion of the state of democracy and the state of the council in Iceland, which is indeed a crisis in this right stjórn rule of the Sioms of Sigmundur the Davíð of Gunnul. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u91	A respectable president. I believe it was a good thing to do. The minister of foreign affairs should leave no doubt as to what the government's will was for the application procedure in the European Union. In view of the discussion that has been conducted here today, I think that we should consider just how this application procedure was instituted because, as a matter of fact, it has been missing. It has been stated here that the Council made only some decision and that there was considerable agreement here on that decision and that the decision to bind not only that government but the present government, which has a completely different course of action at that time. What happened during the discussion? I think it is right to point that a relatively large percentage of members of the council were very opposed to the fact that this would be the case. As far as I can remember, some of them just left the council at the time. I don't know any better than that present president has to command the Supreme Court. When there was some doubt that more would be involved, the prime minister then stopped a meeting. [[Up front.]] I think it's all right to discuss it because here we're discussing the respect of the Generals, a respected president. Well, there were a lot of things going on. [[Set forward: Three of the pursuers said yes.]] So they wonder, and I hear nothing else at the discussion but that the current government should continue with the application as anything? Sailed to the beach and shut down! Why was she retired? Not because it all worked so beautifully, it just didn't work out, and even the largest chapter, seabed, was not even opened. I think you should read the highest book. Former secretary of state, huh? paritaprevir Acoustics, Skarphéðinsson's son. [[Up front.]] It now tells a lot about what was going on with agricultural practices and how the mood was for the then government groups. Why are we talking about this today? Yes, because the former government forgot one thing she actually speaks for today. It was calling out the nation's real desire to be the nation's head in the European Union, not a different way, whether to proceed or something like that. [[Up front.]] We just need to get the will, whether the nation wants to enter the European Union or not, because an application that the European Union means nothing more than that the government and the Council want to be involved. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] That was never the way, so we're in trouble. It's all right to think that this matter was being held very badly by the last government, very badly. [[Up front.]] And when people come here discussing the respect of the Generals - which president would allow them to stop the council because there is no more to the matter in order to make any conclusions? [[Up front.]] Who would?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u92	By shunning...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u93	I'm asking why. paritaprevir The Guðbjartur son of Hannesson, who once sat in that chair, led the Allied Council, whether he had thought of it. A respectable president. The Board of Directors is absolutely clear. Foreign Minister has custody of the government's foreign affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u94	Agent of the Generals.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u95	There's a Cyrillic in the Republic's constitution. [[Agent of the Generals.]] Let us be clear what I think would have been completely forgotten here, former minister of state, Össur Skarphéðinsson, in itself could have gone to the European Union and applied for membership. Then, of course, he would have had to submit his findings to the General Assembly and then to the nation. [[Up front.]] That's how it works. And that is exactly how the present minister of foreign affairs is holding the case. That's what you need to wonder about. [[Up front.]] No, that's exactly what it is. The former minister of state did not. He went a different way, but he could have gone the other way, that's what I'm pointing at. I'm really worried about how Pirata's senators have completely turned aside everything that has to do with the terms of democracy and government. That's what I'm worried about, a respectable president. [[Up front.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I'm worried about other things, too. I'm worried that we'll meet with members of the House of Government... [[An advance?]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u96	The president would kindly ask members of the council to keep silent in the council hall and allow the senator to deliver his speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u97	A respectable president. I'm worried that the members of the board of directors would come on a talk chair and threaten a long, detailed discussion. Before the discussion began today, there was a debate about the President's meeting board, and it was given exactly the same talks that were given earlier. What's that supposed to mean, a respectable president? We had an agreement to see how we were going to hold the council. While it is not respected, we may come to the core of this discussion: Government and Parliamentary matters must have some advice to get their way through the General Assembly. And if you put up with it on the side of the government that this is not going to be the case, it's a serious matter because a lot of cases are waiting for us and have to go through. [[Up front.]] A respectable president. I am concerned about the bitterness manifested by the appearances that I have had to endure under my speech. Once, there was a time when people tried to be a little bit of fun in prominence, but the bitterness and anger are something I think all of us should be concerned about. It has repeatedly been cited as the statement made by the Attorney Generalis at the commitment value of the Senate arrangement. I remember that in the Icesave case, where it was claimed that we had a legal obligation to accept these contracts and various false claims, we are experiencing exactly the same situation right now. [[It was never claimed.]] When quoting this opinion, one sentence should be read in which it appears that if more of the Generals do not intend to follow the council's counsel, the head of the press would agree that this is done by a report to the Council. It is on the top of the page. 5 of the report. I ask the Generals to read this sentence and see it through when they claim that the lawyer has come to the conclusion that there is a law to be broken. V.E.G. Secretary of State is here tomorrow to report to the General. [[Up front.]] Then we must look at this phrase, and clearly we want this to be done by means of a report to the Generals. [[Up front.]] I also wondered: Is it so that a more important matter to see that his commission will not be renewed, as in the time of the last government, could be approved here by a 100 Parliamentary arrangement that would bind the hands of the next government so that it would have to be months to unwind it? [[The president calls.]] There's a defender here, a respectable president, so it won't be realized. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u98	A respectable president. The comments of a minister during the General Assembly inquiry and the words of many members of Parliament who have spoken here are surprising. People's case, the matter of senators and Ministers, a perfect policy of the state of the synonyms. The phrase is presented, spoken in the length of a legal matter that no one understands about a very simple object, a respectable president, about the position of the minister, and what the state of the Generals is when we make decisions. Is it too much to ask that people speak only Icelandic? Are we asking for too much? I don't understand half of what's going on here, I just have to admit it, because it's spoken a gap and a bang, totally. But it might describe how it all works, it's totally upset, and I'm having a bad feeling about this explanation because they're all over the place. The work of the former government is constantly being described in this matter. I have to say, I just don't care about what happened. Councilmen of Steingrímur J. Sigfússon or Össur Skarphéðinsson spoke during the first term or what they said. I don't care about that at all. We are discussing what this government is doing, we are discussing its treacherous promises, and we will stick to it. It is lame, and it is a sad testimony to the inculcating of the minister and members of the council that the righteousness of one's own doing is that some have acted foolishly. That's a great point of view. The U.S. Parliamentary Report is in a state of confusion. What about other council proposals that are being made? - Mr President, I think there's some kind of nonsense in this clock. What about other council proposals that are being made? What is their position? They're just supposed to be, like the highest. A president says, generally accompanied, not binding, but in general? What does that mean? So, if it doesn't matter what's being done here, why don't we just memory the item here at the Council, put down our jobs, and get back to work? I'm just asking. I'd love to go to something else if it's just some bullshit. Rather, let us do so. I want this to be settled, and this must not be an appropriate policy or as it is suitable for politicians at a time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u99	A respectable president. It happened in this discussion of the president's declaration that the president gave a clear line in this case that shows every song of abuse and the lack of speech at the highest level. Government. One year ago, the Independence Party attempted to do so, and the government all agreed to complete this case with a synonym. It was held for a discussion at the council, and it seemed relatively early after a report from the National Institute of Economics was introduced, but good and good, and it went to the committee. From there, she wasn't finished. This included a loss of face for the government groups, not to reach the level of Congress to complete this case. What we see today was an attempt to end the case without taking it through the council in a relatively simpler way than was done a year ago. However, in the meantime nothing has ever been done to justify this adjusted procedure. The ultimate argument. Secretary of State has been saying that since the proposal was submitted here, it has been found that the European Union has changed its focus on its enlargement process, that the National Institute of Economic Institutes has been submitted - it is, in fact, wrong for the highest level. Minister, it was submitted before he proposed his synopsis a year ago - and in addition, he does not see that the council is about to agree with this proposal. Obviously here was to try to finish the case, to recover his face after a last year's scandal, but it has certainly failed. The declaration of the Council President leaves no doubt about this. The Declaration of the Parliament also reveals that the Independence Party has only one officer - and it's not Bjarni Benediktsson. His name is Einar K. Guðfinnsson of God. He described the way in which this case needs to be addressed. There is another suggestion to end this process, so that Iceland will no longer be an applicant state. Therefore, the major question facing this scandalous march is: Will such a proposal be presented at the council? Will the government formally try to end this process? It is the big question that we face, and it will be interesting to follow along. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u100	President. Clearly, the government does not understand the Congress. It is good that the president of the Generals explains that a new proposal has to be made to change the subject of this discussion, if that is the will of the government. Therefore, I would like to ask that the president of the Generals, in a formal way, be represented by all of us senators, send a letter that invalidates the government's resignation. That's the only normal thing in this position, for the government is holding out its full feet, as shown here today, that it has laid off this process. It was the purpose and purpose of the government to go by the Council, to go by their own party, to go by the people, to achieve some kind of success -- I don't really understand what they were doing, I'm quite out of understanding this. All this process is so I don't understand the basics of it. But I wish the President would say no. Let's remember that, Mr. President, and everyone in this room -- unfortunately, few members of the council are more of a part here -- but they, this 53,555, are the nation. They called for attention. So I challenge the president because they called for national pay, that if the letter can't be called back, the president proposes a national vote for us to determine whether people will continue their talks or not. It's the only normal process. We in our smaller section have decided to assist the council, and all of us have worked together on a Congressary proposal for national payment, but unfortunately the prime minister and procurator of the Independence Party have not. You in the greater part promised the people, you praised them repeatedly, and that's all on tape - I see that one general here shakes his head. It was promised that the people would be allowed to vote for this, but they decided to go behind the words of the government convention. It's shameful. It's not okay to break promises just because you're in power. It was both the government groups that promised and both of them betrayed. It is a poem at this job that it is believed to be in order. I would also like to point out that many people believe that it is not such a terrible thing to decommission Congress and democracy. Many have grinned and smiled as you point it out in a Senate hall today. But it's just that if we're going to live in Congress, which only goes on to the point that the more part is in charge, then perhaps it's best for us who are in the lesser part to go home. The prime minister, or secretary of finance, could also make it clear who they are here - yes, they are represented by the nation - preaching a national bill along with the election. It would be most honorable and best of all in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u101	A respectable president. The European Union and application are widely referred to here, as this field is for which we should discuss such suggestions. Here, however, we will discuss the situation of the Generals, especially in the light of Article 1. The Czech Republic's constitution, which is that Iceland is a republic with a conniving regime. One of the worse speeches I've heard moved here from this pita was held earlier today by the river. 3.m. That's the north side. "Höskuldur Þórhallsson, whose speech is repetitive, and in particular reflects the attitude that exists in the government, an attitude which I have always found a bit strange. It is when men both justify and deny. They deny that they are doing something that they will soon justify doing. This reminds me of an interview I saw in which a young man was arguing very hard with another man on television and becoming a liar. The older man did not like that, but then he said to a younger man: "No, I'm not calling you a liar. You're a liar. I think it's a little similar. It's said no, it's not being pulled back, it's not doing anything, but we still have the right to do it and we can do it if we want to. A word of the same. 3.m. That's the north side. , particularly when he said that a government would have to have some way of getting his way through the Generals, knowing that it would never pass through the Council. A respectable president. What is 1? The constitution? It's the General who's in charge here, and it's part of Generalis's project to sift out the bullshit that sometimes comes from the highest level. Government. That's part of what we do. And if people want to change the process, which I insist I am more than willing to participate in, then we should change the process. We do not ignore the process because we are dissatisfied with how it works. [[Up front.]] That's not an option in a democracies community. When we talk about democratic commissions, the government groups praised national law on the matter before elections. To a large extent, they were elected to that promise. They were asked specifically, and this was made clear. They refuse to make such a decision. They're afraid of the people. They ignore 53,555 signatures, which is more than collecting. They ignore the protests of last year, which are now back on the same issue, which is not necessarily about the European Union, but about the shunning of democracy, this is about it. And all councilmen must never allow that at any time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-16-79.u102	A respectable president. I appreciate the discussion we've been discussing here. This is a debate over the state of the Generals but for a certain reason. The debate over the state of the Council must be ongoing, and it will, of course, continue in some form. That's fine. I think it may be wise from time to time that we will be discussing the state of the council at council meetings, sometimes given the cause, and then only generally because, of course, the members of Congress are in charge of the state of the General Assembly. I just want to end up focusing on a few things. For the most part, I refer to the talk I gave earlier without any help I plan to repeat it. First, I raised a question recently asked about whether in a letter the highest. In some legal way, the minister of foreign affairs was brought to the court of the Generals and the Generals. In other words, were the Senate's position weighed? I make up what I said very clearly in my speech, my answer to that question is that it did not. I reasoned that with a few words that I could refer to. First of all, when it comes to terms with Congress, they do not have the legal value, as we have seen. It is not just the scholar's opinion that it is, of course, that the doctrine of Congress does not have a legal value, simply because if it did, it could not be compatible with the law of authority, Article 3. The Constitution, the legislation, the judicious authority and the execution authority. If we were to turn these terms into legal terms, we would, in effect, be ousted from the organization we have created at the General Assembly, that the Council described his will in a conclusion, as well as a law on important matters. Though important, and no doubt about it, their views cannot bind government beyond those that result from the council itself. They may have political values, they may have other values, but it is very important that we discern them. What I also noted is that this letter has been quoted at the highest. Secretary of State, in which it is deemed that it is up to the government's purpose not to re-start business talks and it is also the firm stand of the government that Iceland should not be regarded as an application state of the EU. When I answer the question about whether this letter was somehow passed to the council or general's rights, or weighed that the Councilship's position - and I answer that it is not - I refer to the Supreme Court. In this case, a minister has the authority to state the above, which he is doing. Otherwise, I'm not going to say anything more about this discussion. I'm happy for her, and because there's been a great deal of evidence here that the Commission's information on the council is here. I'd like to call two attentions. On the one hand, there is a clear law on how such a matter should be handled. It's expected to be the highest. Since 2011, Prime Ministers will submit a report covering the implementation of the council arrangement, and this rule has been followed from the very beginning. The objective was to strengthen the Senate's position and to improve the implementation of its conclusions. Other than that, I want to say that by the highest. Also, the minister of state reports on these matters tomorrow and helps us appreciate the material meaning of the letter he wrote last week, I believe that the requirements required and referred to the summary of the Council's Office on the Presidency to the council were submitted.
