ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u1	Lárus Jónsson, former U.S. Marshal, died on Sunday night at the Kópavogi General's Center of Health. He was 82 years old. Lárus Jónsson was born on November 17, 1933, and he grew up there. His parents were Jón Ellert Sigurpálsson and his wife, the Unnur Þorleifsdóttir of the House. Lárus finished a student exam from the University of High School in Reykjavík, 1954, and a business test at the University of Iceland in 1960. At the same time, Lárus founded a family and served as an employee at the Iceland Weather Service. When he completed his studies, he returned to his hometown of Ólafsfjörður, where he spent eight years there. In 1968, Lárus became an employee at the National Institute of Economic Affairs in Akureyri, which included the work of a so - called Northern national programme, in 1970 he became the director of the European Commission of the European Union of Norway. Lárus became involved in politics when again he took up residence on Olafurd, became president of a young independent society there, and later became a member of the Union government of young independence. He was elected councilman at Ólafsarður in 1966 and in Akureyri in 1970 after he was transferred there. When the Independence Party in the Northern Pre-election District of 1971 became a great deal of agreement that Lárus put 2nd on the category of elections back then, and later, at the elections of 1979 and 1983, he was in the lead seat of the list. He was sitting at 15 different councils all over the place. Lárus Jónsson, a professional senator, took a good look at matters, and was moderate in language. He used himself extensively in community affairs and employment as well as in protecting the interests of his district and his clients. During his second term, he sat on a budget board, as the committee then called, and became one of the chief spokesmans in the state's financial affairs ever since. He was chairman of the last committee of his 1983,1984, and used many reforms to further the budget. On the other hand, in the spring of 1984, Lárus decided to stop, gave in to Congress, and became the bank director of Iceland's Road Bank. After the bank's retirement, 1987, Lárus performed his own special work, then in 1988 the director of Social Services and Media for three years. In 1991 he was appointed director of the Icelandic Board of Education, which was a retirement work, in 1999. The rootry movement here and in the North countries had LérusLárus force long, which included the district director of the movement in Iceland, 1967,1968. Lárus had great trust wherever he worked. He was well - known and well - mannered, a friend of many, and a friendly person, and a complete heart in everything he did, a warm manner, and a joyful laugh. When official truths ended, Lárus began to cultivate a fiction that he had a tendency to lie down on two poetry books. The song shines into his mind and shows a more serious aspect of his mind and depth and integrity. I pray to the assembly to remember LárusJónsson, the former general, by getting out of bed. - [[Senators rose from seats.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u2	President. All councilmen. A person's first reaction is to Guðfinnsson. Yet, it has been 25 years since he first sat here, and actually ten years better, or in 1980 when he was 25 years old, he came to council the first time as a deputy for that most beautiful district of the West. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] He has grown in his work all this time and now sits on our throne. To put it this way: The Presidential Presidency is doing Einar fine, and the other thing that everyone sees is that Einar is doing well with the President's chair. On behalf of us generals, dear President, I'd like to give you a hearty congratulations on your 60th birthday. I'm asking senators to say what I say, so President will hear. [[The senators are hitting the table.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u3	On this day, it is a good thing to know that the president of the council would have had when he was speaking, not referring to the Presidency, but, rather, I thank you very much for the warm and memorable words to me as a boy. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hjörvar has spoken on behalf of members of Congress. How grateful I am for the way the members of the council were to respond to his words! However, that means that the president will now be ambiguous and not allowed to be distracted by age. It's like whisk. A senator stated that it was a long time since I entered the council, first as a troubled senator, who surprised me very much but also from the time I first sat as a member of Congress in 1991. My worst concern was that I was still here in 2015.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u4	Borist has received a letter from the State Department asking for every request in order to give a written answer to a letter on the subject. 403, on studies, charges, and judgments resulting from sexual abuse against disabled people, from the daughter of Katrín Júlíusdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u5	V.E.G. President. I'm going to talk to you about tyres, and I'm going to make more of it from the last discussion on the subject. I thank all members of Congress for their response and ensure that all members of Congress support action in this case in which all members of the council are on the council arrangement for the ban on the use of typhus. I also find it appropriate to agree that these teams, the council, when the work is done well in the opposite direction. However, since matters of Congress may take time to make their way, I hope to get to the highest level. Ministers have an opportunity to complete the matter in cooperation with the EEA but the role of the EEA is just to apply themselves to wholesome environment and protection. In this regard, I would like to point to a controlled waste policy that supports waste management, No. 55/2003, but 8th. The regulations under which to investigate waste are prohibited. The d-inforcement of the Regulation, for example, says that the brain or throat is prohibited from growling or scraping wheels. Research so far has not clearly stated how harmful this subject may be, but the Regulation further states: The need to protect society and the environment from long-lasting effects has been demonstrated in certain types of hazardous chemicals and pollutants. For a long time, in this context, it means a few thousand years. At the same time and also strict rules apply to the price of tyre rubber because it is strictly forbidden, it cannot be normal that it can be distributed at game and sports fields - and that in tons.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u6	Mr. President. The contract board of workers at the Straumsvík plant decided to cancel a strike that was due to begin at midnight last night. However, the Karialan remains unsolved, but the decision to postpone this strike was in the context that there was no will for the representatives of the Rio Toto Empire to negotiate. It has been reported from the European Parliamentary Committee that it is useless to keep the strike to stress, where threats have repeatedly been made that the plant will be shut down. The labour demand has been comparable to that of the general labour market, but they also want to protect their jobs and prevent further work care. The work force is beginning to experience itself as a game breaker in the interest of Rio Tinto against the remuneration people around the world. It is not a beautiful story with this international company. In my opinion, the International Circle Rio Tinto uses an unusual pressure market and weakens the strike rights. What demands does Rio Tinto make in the future when these things are going to work out? Can the company put the same pressure on tax electrical prices and increase the workforce under the threat of shutting down the plant? It can be if it got away with you. I believe there is a need to protect Icelandic work law and strike rights and to prevent international circles such as Rio Tinto use oppression and threats to corporate closedness when it fights for its pay and normal terms and protects its security. We must not as an independent nation let such international circles oppress us in Iceland. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u7	V.E.G. President. I want to take this opportunity and start by calling the highest order. Congratulations to a president by the day, to him and to his people of all prosperity. Otherwise, I wanted to use my time today to call attention to a plan for the climate that the Iceland government introduced during the days. The programme is for three years and is intended to sharpen Iceland's climate focus and to promote reporting activities in order to achieve real success in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The 16 projects presented under the top of the parish plan are varied, and many of them are independent, but they have in common the advantage of individuals and companies to further the fight against climate change. All policy measures to reduce emissions, increase carbon binding, support global climate projects, and help the government's ability to deal with more severe commitments in climate. In addition to supporting innovation and climate - related solutions, emphasis is placed on the cooperation of work and the government to reduce emissions in certain branches. In turn 16 projects are divided so that eight of them aim to reduce emissions of greenhouse gas in Iceland and four projects are aimed at promoting cooperation in Iceland with foreign countries and helping other countries to reduce emissions and cope with climate change consequences. In particular, I am thrilled to note that Iceland will be in front of a team on global geologic use. In that case, four projects are involved in strengthening infrastructure, since a high level of economic interests are in Iceland. Of course, the environmental benefits are most important and our contribution and conduct that are truly considered by individuals. Let us all take to heart one thing and remember that our work today has an effect on tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u8	A respectable president. I'd like to express my concern about the few races in this country and its consequences to consumers. This year's final presentation has been very serious, but this report has been very serious about the competition in the local oil market. The report carefully discusses the market's circumstances and behavior that are thought to hinder competition, the public and the community from harming them. At the same time, we will discuss how these competitive inhibitors can be eliminated. The fuel market is of great importance to the nations, so it is a concern if competition there is not active. A respectable president. We're talking about the interests of the public. According to the SEC, measures to improve the benefit of the public are needed in these areas. According to the report, consumers paid over 4◯4.5 billion for automobile fuel in 2014. Thus, many Icelandic consumers are under attack, and that includes the banking market, as is often mentioned in this symposium. Increasing competition releases forces that benefit society, e.g. with more practical management, promoting lower price to consumers, and the environment and landscape must be such that new rivals can land. There should be no access barriers that prevent the formation of biofuels, e.g. department markets, can provide the traditional oil companies competitively.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u9	Mr. President. Happy birthday. Since 1947, the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, one of the main journals on peace and disarmament in the Western world, has published the Doomday Clock, which has the purpose of assessing the state of the world in terms of the threat of nuclear war. The clock was first set to seven minutes before midnight. Times over the years have been changed, and the clock has been quickly or delayed to reflect international changes. First, cohesion between nuclear powers and nuclear arms was mainly seen in assessments of clock setting, while other factors have been taken into account in later years, e.g. Climate change. At the beginning of this year, the Doomsday Clock was accelerated, and now it shows three minutes to midnight. There are four reasons for these changes, including those between Russia and the United States. in Ukraine, in the face of climate change problems, unsolved problems with radioactive waste, and the development of new and more powerful nuclear weapons. V.E.G. President. It has only been two times that time has reached this far, that was when the superpowers competed to detonate nuclear weapons in the atmosphere and when the Cold War was at its height. During the next few days, Iceland can affect two of the factors that have led to this Judgment Day clock being accelerated, in Paris, where representatives of Iceland can contribute to climate change and the UN General Assembly where Iceland can participate in banning nuclear weapons. [[The president calls.]] I sure hope we do. The members of the council encourage our representatives in those places to do their part.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u10	V.E.G. President. During these last days, there has been a lot of discussion about government contributions to health and welfare. The discussion has been loud enough to explain that the government is not setting priorities for these matters. This discussion is of interest, considering that according to a budget for 2016, 48.4% of the total budgets of the state are being paid for these classes or equivalent to 306.8 billion. There, 25.2% sees a health care, which is the largest budget for budgeting, with a total of 159.9 billion. Next, the largest budget team will have social security and other welfare issues. The cost is 23.2% of the total budget of the state's budget, of which a case of 146.9 billion. As we examine what the Ministry and Independence Organization has done for health care during this terms, we can say, for example, that large amounts of money have been added to the Hospital's Hospital, 840 million have been added to reduce the waiting list, a system purchase program up to over 5 billion is on schedule, a new funding has been set up to start a new invitation at the Land Hospital, or about 1.8 billion in buildings, the budget has been increased to S-marked drugs and is being increased to the dental contract made during the last term. Funds for 2016 highlight health - care structure in order to reduce the pressures of land hospitals. I consider this to be a very reasonable decision to make sure that the health care will be the first stop for patients. Of course, the better you can do than the good work the government has shown in the building of the health system is always an incentive to continue on the same path to build up the resources that our health systems are and should be. In addition to this, the cost of social security is 99 billion per year, an increase of 10.3 billion per year. This information can be found in the 2016 budget and in the introduction at the highest rate. Secretary of finance came forward. A cumulative increase to the seminary is less than 17% since 2014. [[The president calls.]] These figures are an incentive to continue on the same path and continue to improve the prospects of older citizens and disability for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u11	A respectable president. This year the government of the Independence Party and the forwarding party is going to give the access to the fishing resource. According to the bill for budget 2016, the newskeepers are going to cover the cost of only 5.3 billion at the rate of 2015. [[Up front.]] In recent years, the rate of fishing has been about twice as high. However, 5.3 billion are similar, and so far the so - called general fishing cost has been thought of as being in charge of business and the cost of fishing, which is said to cost the cost of direct and indirect government service to the seaside. Here are some of the management practices of the Oceanographic Institute, Fishing Office, National Guard, as well as a living room, and so on. This year, however, the fishing price goes only into the industry itself. According to a bill to the budget, nothing will come together in a fund for the nation. The rent is 0K. We're not getting anything to do with the collective work of the entire nation, e.g. Health care. The assets of the resource are not getting anything. This situation is noteworthy and special because it is not as if the fishing companies are fighting on the banks. This is well - known to government officials. A month ago, it was the highest. The prime minister himself at a meeting of the seaside companies and retraced the article at a high point for the year's arrival in Iceland's record of exporting. It is good for them to succeed, but it is intolerable that they will not get any part of that success. If the fishing industry can pay off money because of success, the assets of the resource will be as successful - but the government is clearly in another matter. I'm just saying, "Thank you for nothing."
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u12	President. Happy birthday, really. I'd like to be the subject of a procedure around the constitution changes. A board of directors has been working for some time. If you watch the clock and the calendar, it is clear that the committee is not going to produce enough money to be paid along with the U.S. elections. In view of this, it is normal for me to feel that the work of the Committee will be opened. I think it is totally unnatural for a committee dealing with the changes in the Constitution for the entire nation to be working in a way that makes it unclear exactly what changes they are making. There is no public access as it was at the Board of Directors, and there is no access for members of Congress to recommend that we share what is being part of the Committee with our experts. Therefore, I would like to check with other members of Congress whether they feel that there is no basis for us to be more aware of what the committee is doing. Also, all information is missing about whether the committee should bring in the public before it comes back. If all of this is done behind the scenes, is it a normal setting? Is it a more reasonable setting for the Commission to submit directly to the administrative and surveillance committee? What's the natural course for the committees to complete their jobs? Is it absolutely certain that this committee will produce a 40% threshold and a license to make changes during this period? Is it reasonable that this is done without being expected to be done along with the election? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u13	Dear birthday baby. Happy birthday, Mr. Honorable President. I'm getting closer to health care from just a different direction than what. paritaprevir Elsa Lára the Árnadóttir, who spoke earlier and listed all the government's accomplishments in that regard. I have a brand new list from the National Medical Association, which arrived on the website this weekend, of the waiting list for action. The best thing to do is to say a very sad picture there. If we look at the median waiting time for six major surgery classes, it is so that the intraocular surgery is 39 weeks, with regard to the selected pelvic organ procedures for women 41 weeks, uterine resection 14 weeks. It's the only waiting period approaching the threshold of 90 days. Synth hip surgery is 31 weeks and knee surgery is 53 weeks. This is the waiting period and the number of waiting lists has increased in all of these categories except one, e.g. were those awaiting cataract surgery 2,563 in October 2014 but now have 3,895. It is only a heart and/or coronary angiography, with a slight decrease in the lists. Of course, this situation is quite terrifying, a respectable president, and although it is true that some of the money was earmarked by dealing with the waiting list, it is like a drop in the ocean in view of the circumstances in our largest medical institutions where these measures were needed and should be carried out. This is not acceptable for us if we are going to try to claim that we have a health system in the first order. What are these situations that we can face if the meaning is to introduce the European Union's Directive on the right to enjoy health care across borders without first working down this waiting list? Mr. President. Unfortunately, it is not that there is special comfort in the lists of directors to their accomplishments when you face the facts of the medical system that are presented to you by public evidence. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u14	A respectable president. I'd also like to do the Constitution for a discussion prepared on how the Constitution was counted as one of the reasons for the collapse. This is also true of the highest ones. A government sitting at the council today promised that it would also violate a new constitution. However, it does not seem to be willing to work at the highest level. A government to get it through, and it does not seem to end this endless final meeting with the Constitution board. It's just time to get to the top. A government strictly states, and stopped drawing the people and the council on their asses, what their view is of a new constitution and the changes the current Constitution committee is about to make. We're in a time crisis, and now there's a perfectly prerequisite for us to complete this case before the appointed time for the case to be paid nationally with the election. Now we just have to start finding out if it's political will at the highest level. Governments to hold on to the big words of the new constitution, which was essential for healthy political environment and security. So the public agrees, the public wants a new constitution. So I need to ask myself, " Is the government that is still united with this nation because it seems to be trust? ' Then I ask myself, " How have the affairs of the current constitution committee been kept unconcerned? ' How's it going? Wants the highest. Government's new constitution or not? It must appear as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u15	A respectable president. I'm also going to discuss the activities of the Commission or, rather, the whole arrangement, which is now being revised in a constitution. There is a valid provision in a constitution that says that a constitution can be changed if two thirds of Parliamentaries vote with a change, but also if 40% of Iceland's voters vote by the change. We piranha voted against this threshold in the summer of 2013 because it is extremely evil and it is democratically unacceptable. One of the worst things about him in my opinion is that he creates a balance of interest, a imbalance that makes it necessary for one who is in favor of the change to encourage others at an elected location, to help get people to where they want to be chosen. If you don't want to change, if you want to keep things the way they are, you just have to put down your vote, encourage people to sit at home, don't participate in this nonsense, etc. As a result, there is a difference between votes on individual subjects and elections. This means that in the case of people who are supposed to be selected, there is more in general campaign participation. This is normal because all aspects of the matter have a common interest in coming as far as possible. Hence, it is not possible to expect that participation in a vote on an individual's affairs is as great as any election. Now, I don't have the time to do a very thorough review of what is more important to the threshold that is found in the current provisional principle. It has become evident, however, that it is not time to maintain the Constitution along with the election, and that is a very serious matter. It is the responsible part of those who pretend to be faithful in their work to change their constitution that they respect the fact that we must have our participation as fully as possible and that it is a huge disappointment, in fact unacceptable, that the vote along with the election's elections will be canceled. I call attention to the fact that the majority of the people have voted to want a new constitution, and more than that, they have demanded a vote that we are responsible to pass through. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u16	V.E.G. President. Advertisement for today's occasion. First of all, it is proper to assume that a board of directors is doing quite well and that the work is done and that there is no reason to believe that they will not be successful. On the other hand, I'm in the same place as what. paritaprevir Elín Hirst is due to the report that has just arrived from the Contestance Control, the Marketing Research of the Fuel market. This is the primary assessment report. This means that people have the right to face up to February 16, but it must still be said that based on the conclusions presented by the Contestance Commission, it is difficult to see that the conclusion is fundamentally wrong. That's a worry. This investigation has been going on for two years, it's really good. It is a concern that it seems that the oil companies in Iceland did not learn anything from the events that took place here in 1993◯2001 and ended in a certain way that it does not need to be covered. And it is natural, too, that consumers in 2014 paid over 40 to 4.5 billion for fuel. It also says, by permission of the president, on page 18. 9 of this report: ▪ Car fuel consumption was an abnormally high of up to 18 kns. with a value tax per litre of gasoline and a 20 kr. with a worth tax per litre diesel per litre in 2012 We are now being offered 13 kr. The discount twice a month and the men take it very rhythmically, all the oil companies, all the distributors, and now at the last time we are being offered one week at 13k. A discount. It's natural to be completely out of the cow because, of course, the oil companies, if there's room for such discounts and gilts, just to lower their fuel prices in the country. Each dollar of fuel costs 360 million homes each year.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u17	A respectable president. As we know, it's the highest. The government's climatic programme for three years a week ago, and I want to celebrate this program in particular. The plan is based on 16 projects. The challenges and priorities under the application schedule are varied and share in reducing climate change. Both are products that increase carbon binding and reduce carbon emissions, but they also support global climate work. To me, all these routes are important, and in this context, there are no too small measures to matter. Likely, all of us have long - term, long - term changes in our viewpoint. All tasks highlight the cooperation of governments, individuals, and professional life. It is very important to encourage initiatives and innovations in climate-friendly transport and employment solutions. In order for this to happen, it is important that we be aware that we will be able to take advantage of the opportunities, we may need to establish structure accordingly. Regarding carbon binding, we also have varied opportunities. The aim is to raise land - healing and forestry funds and begin at the recovery of wetlands. These are projects that governments and private workers can devote to, but the project needs to be done in cooperation with national users and needs to be based on planning and global land use programmes, such as the national forestry programme and land healing programme. In this field, it is also important to base on Icelandic and Icelandic effectiveness assessments. It is also planned to make effort to reduce food waste, which often results in unnecessary carbon waste. In this regard it is important to look for ways to increase the consciousness of consumers about the levels of carbon that different foods leave behind.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u18	A respectable president. Respectfully, birthday boy. I just want to discuss the activities of the council at the end of the council. There haven't been a lot of cases from the government, and maybe it's okay, but it'll give us a chance to handle the Senate cases. We have one 26 cases in the short future, all of course, and the terms of Congress that I have considered from other councilmen are many very good and are relevant for this occasion. I feel like we've given way to over a few members of Congress. I don't know if all the beaches in the drinking business are now controversial, but I think it's a waste of time in the fall that I couldn't take more senators into committees and send them out to report, we'd be getting them back here in the Senate. I think I'll be right about it when I say that we've taken a few notes in a short future, if we can get four or five points, that's all. I don't know exactly what to do. Now we're getting involved with the budget talk, and I guess that'll work out by then until Christmas. But I would really like that when we get back to the council after Christmas, we would like to take a good piece in Congress because they are very good and often better than what comes from the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u19	A respectable president. Happy birthday. I would like to discuss payment at the drug cost of patients and the number of patients who can receive subsidies from the Committee of the Medicinal Products. I remind you that one of the cornerstones of civilized society is the health system. This community has been established in Iceland to care for sick people without discrimination. It has never been interrupted until now that the proposal to pay medical expenses for the government was adopted, not by the number of patients, but by the patient's condition. In accordance with the recommendations given by the health care provider, the CHMP is in place to apply the patient's count limits when making a decision on drug subsidies. This means that, if directed, physicians should refuse medicinal products after a certain number of patients have been reached which they will need to take this medicine. As early as April, the health minister was made aware by a letter written by the Chairman of the Committee of the Medicinal Products that when the authorities are fully used for certain chemotherapeutics, antirheumatic medicinal products, and ophthalmic medicinal products, they were no longer available to new patients in need of these medicinal products. This letter is very serious. It is unacceptable discrimination and that physicians are in the difficult situation of explaining to a patient who requires medication to think that it is not available because a certain number of patients have been reached. This conflict with health - law laws; this conflict with the right to which a patient is created in law and constitution. The chairman of the Committee of Medicinal Products has long ago challenged the Ministry of Health to eliminate this number limitation. [[The president calls.]] A member of the Generals has made serious comments to the Ministry on this matter, but the Ministry and Minister have not heard it. [[The president calls.]] I propose that the council now take action on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u20	Mr. President. This is where we pay votes for the union of the institutions of the Marine Research Agency and the Hunting Environment Agency. The left green will sit by this vote. We do not believe that the mutual benefit of these institutions has been shown to be professional or economic. Nor has it been possible for employees to be elected and rights, which have not been ensured sufficiently. We feel that these matters have not been handled well enough. We know that the human resources of these companies are the most important thing, and they need to be assured. So we'll sit by the union of these institutions, but if the bill is approved, we'll support the adjustment proposal that will be presented to the Agency to have a different name but was proposed to support that new name. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u21	V.E.G. President. At the beginning of the vote, I wanted to explain my new proposal, along with all the other members of the committee. A professional health committee. As we have seen, both of us have a lack of energy. paritaprevir She too was taken out of the committee by Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, even though she was not at a council. The proposal is for several articles, of course some legal modifications, but in short it is that instead of the Agency's name is Marine and Water Research, as it was supposed to be Marine Research Institute, Research and Counseling Agency of the seas and Lakes. The name of the bill will be this too. I wanted this to be done as soon as I'm delighted that all professionals in the trade committee are shipping agents to the new proposals presented here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u22	A respectable president. I'm glad the unity of these two institutions has arrived for the final payment. It is based on a very long preparatory work in at least two advisers and at least two governments and is finally being implemented. I'm happy about that. The work plan suggested that the Agency name something other than this bequeath the proposed adjustment. I reiterate that we have two equally relevant institutions here being united. I will view as a matter of fact, though, that a body of Congress changes the proposal of the Oceanographic Institute that it will not change that it is here that it is a combination of the two equally high places. In the long run, the name should be of no importance; we look for decades. I trust that this will be researched on water and will have long - term benefits.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u23	A respectable president. In the case of the highest. A minister noted that two of the above - held organizations were being united. I therefore find it odd that a change in the proposal to bring together these equally valid institutions the name of one of the institutions should be addressed. I would have chosen that the change would not have shown up. I deserve every right to sit by this change of name. [[Take it up, just the opposite!]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u24	V.E.G. President. I recommend the General and Education Committee on this matter for the change in Iceland National Relations Act. This is a bill that clears up to the projects that Iceland's National Guard has performed abroad. It was stated in a report by the People's Review of the Generals that the Agency's legislation was desirable to accept assignments abroad and to ensure that the State Department has a targeted monitoring of these projects. After this bill will hopefully be approved at the council, the Agency's authority is to be taken into account in order to carry out these assignments. I'm glad, of course, that we're here for the indications from the National Revision Report. Since 2010, the Agency has carried out assignments abroad. It was originally taken to raise income, so that watch ships, helicopters, and aircraft of the Agency could remain operating in the much of the time we know. The committee found that these projects have brought a great deal of knowledge and experience to the Agency and its employees in caring for the work. We on the board feel very important that this experience and knowledge will continue to be built up in the Agency, and rejoice that the staff of the National Reservation Guard will be able to carry out such projects, but the importance of this does not affect the basic services for the National Relations in Iceland, i.e. Police and security at Iceland. We suggest that this bill be passed on as it is, and under the opinion of the committee, write it. Councilmen Guðmundur Steingrímsson, Haraldur Einarsson, Karl Garðarsson, Ásta Guðrún Helgadóttir, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Vilhjálmur Árnason, and the one standing here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u25	Mr. President. I'm not going to express opposition to this bill. Much further, I'm going to support it. Nevertheless, I would like to use this opportunity to recall that when men set aside time to build this ship and to get it to Iceland, it was, of course, done on the grounds that we would have to do more work here on shores. This was literally short - lived at the time with certain changes in the foreign affairs of the Icelanders, leading to a government at the time to find such a ship. I recall that Björn Bjarnason, who was then a leading officer for the fact that this ship would be built with many sound arguments and had to take some action to convince men of its value. Since then, this ship, which is naturally remarkable and most likely to the chief European vessel in its size and type, has been at times in other jobs than basic services and specific jobs in Iceland. I don't think that it got us otherwise, but it wasn't what they started out with. When the economic crisis took place, it was clear that this was simply necessary financialally so that the ship and the Marine Guard could be run at that time, but now it seems to me that this will be the case in the future. Is that why we went to that ship? I don't object to the fact that the National Guard has a special experience, but how does it feel? A senator of this development has been? Watch your step. For example, a senator explained to me what this important experience is in this way? [[The president calls.]] Counts 'em out. A senator who may be laying the groundwork for this ship to be more and less rented away from the shores of the country?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u26	V.E.G. President. On the contrary. It is stated in the Committee that these projects should not influence the basic services the National Relations Service should provide for law enforcement and security in Iceland. We have these views upstairs, and they are also shown in a paper with the bill itself. We were contacted by a representative from both the Ministry and the Agency who discussed with the members of the Committee what knowledge this has brought to the Agency. It is important for us people who are doing these vital work of learning new things, reencing themselves, and for you to be fully involved in the work. It was everyone's assessment that these projects were important to the Agency, but it should be careful that this will not be the main operation of the National Relations. I think everyone is aware of this, end the bill also, to ensure the management of the Ministry of Justice by these decisions and jobs, as National Reexamination points out in their report that there is a need to be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u27	Madam President. At the time, this decision was controversial, needed and necessary, yet it was discussed in at least two governments, possibly even more. I had planned to give a considerable talk on these matters and on how the National Guard has developed and in what way our important investments are being used today, but on the day of this great peace and that happy day in the joint and supreme lives of the Council. I'm not going to tire of the council with that. I thought, though, that it would be wrong for at least one member of the body to think that there must be a man to look out for. We have to make sure that this ship and others are involved in the welfare of the National Guard in such a way that while it is certainly an important source of income, people are not embezzling themselves too thin and too far away from Iceland to suffer at the basic services. I agree with that argument. A senator's intention, including the approval of the committee and the surveillance role it brings to the Ministry of finance, and the government through the incident, by the operation to ensure that it will be clearly maintained by the decisions that may be taken by the Board of Health on the basis of renting this ship. I think it's necessary for my attitude to appear here, but overture what I said before, it's not my intention to lie against this bill. However, these are the views that must be expressed because they are in line with the clear viewpoints expressed by the founder of the case and which he used to fight for the case and to get through what was disputed in his day.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u28	V.E.G. President. It is very important that these views be made clear. However, it is proper to also draw attention to the section of this report that deals specifically with this monitoring and in what way the National Guard should make Ministers aware of the scope of foreign projects. The requirement for the international security and service stage controls the scope of the Agency's involvement in such projects. The report says that the Agency will start working on national security programmes and that there will be a clear guide. The Agency should then evaluate the risks of participation in such projects as both practices and the tools that we truly have invested in with the tax of the public. This risk assessment was conducted in cooperation with the State Marshal's office and the Red Cross and Land Hospital because of the risk of infectious diseases that could carry out such projects. As mentioned in my speech, the bill aims to explain and ensure systematic monitoring of the activities of the Agency and to ensure that such projects are always fully informed on the right course.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u29	V.E.G. President. I would like to recommend the General and Education Committee on the lottery and numbers trials. The bill suggests that the license of the lottery players and statistics will be extended to January 1, 2034. Otherwise, on January 1, 2018, the report that follows the bill would have allowed the completion of these documents on time due to planning and operating security. A few comments were received, and we have received visitors. The reviews are largely welcome when the bill appears, but in some places it is noted that there is normal for other members of the organization to be part of the law's work. A review of Iceland's games has issued on Iceland to provide its work on the Internet, and now there are reports of such being received by the commission. So I'll call the case back to the committee and we'll be taking over for this discussion at her meeting in the morning. So the matter needs to be addressed to the discussions committee. But we want to make this right and do it in our committee party that the bill serves solely as an extension of jobs, not the need to make changes in the environment of the country's lottery business, so that it becomes clear. So we suggest that the committee meeting included a review of the legislation on this suit and that we declare support for it. We suggest that the bill be accepted unchanged, but, of course, we'll put it on the committee tomorrow. Under the committee's opinion, the writer is the writer of this article. Councilmen Guðmundur Steingrímsson, Linika Anna Sævarsdóttir, Karl Garðarsson, Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir and Vilhjálmur Árnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u30	V.E.G. President. In this matter of the European Convention on Human Rights, I recommend the members of the General and Education Committee. The bill suggests that an addition of 15th of the Convention on Protection of Human Rights and Freedom will be legalized, but it adds to the fact that a physical change in the rules and order of the environment and regulations relating to forms of validation and signing. We had guests, i.e. An agent from the Ministry, and a representative from the Iceland Human Rights Office to review the matter and to conclude that it is right to accept this bill unchanged. However, we state that the bill is shortening the court's court hearing from six months to four. We especially address this aspect of our committee, since we discussed this point most in our treatment of the matter. It was the view that this trend was in line with a short delay in Member States due to increased development in communication technology. However, as a signature on this committee opinion, we would like to emphasize that this short-term delay will not include a loss of human rights. Two o'clock. Senators, please. paritaprevir Ólína Þorvarðardóttur Þordóttir and höfjörður. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, sign the committee's opinion in advance. I see they're not in the audience, so I'll explain to him. Foreman of the day. Councilmen are concerned with a measure of a great tribulation in the European Court of Human Rights, especially with a short delay. However, in view of the fact that neither the European Court of Human Rights nor any other human rights organization have made comments, members of the Committee agree otherwise. Under the heading, write the article "What Is Here? " Councilmen Guðmundur Steingrímsson, Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir, Karl Garðarsson, Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir, Vilhjálmur Árnason, and as previously said. paritaprevir Kjerúlf Þorvarðardóttir Þordónardóttir and what. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, under notice.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u31	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to correct a law of law No. 37/1992, i.e. 521, 385th. It is about a special price because of an inequities of marine resources. The bill suggests that the definition of what is considered to be an unreachable sea force in the sense of the law will be changed. In the current law, it is considered unsurpassed by the force of the sea obtained beyond markets or without the terms of special fishing at 2 mg. 7. there are laws on fishing in Iceland as well as a 2 mg catch. 7. the provision of a specific price for a non-sanctionable sea level, i.e. power beyond the given purchase or resources. There is no solid evidence to establish such a narrow range of values. The bill suggests that seven counts of what is considered non-sanctioned sea forces will also be included in a catch obtained without the permission of the local fishing permit, a catch obtained outside of the license, a catch purchased with illicit fishing tools, a catch derived from an area where the fish is forbidden, and that does not cover the minimum size required in the law, governance, or specific fishing practices. The reasons why it is considered right to confiscate all the resources that have been obtained illegally are not to be able to profit from a legal offense, i.e. There should be no financial motivation for violating. If the bill becomes a law, it will be more equal in any form of illegal force, or contrary to peace laws, payable under the law for a particular price because of an unsurpassed sea force. This will be the motivation to take away. A respectable president. I have now traced the key elements of the bill to extending the definition of what is considered a non-sanctioned sea power and another reference to the bill and the worksheet. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to 2nd. ... andwhat. Business committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u32	V.E.G. President. I recommend here for a bill to correct a change in sailing law, No. 34/1985, traffic laws, No. 50/1987, and Transport Idolatry Act, No. 18/2013. The bill is prepared to introduce EEA transport guidelines. For simplicity, it was decided to combine changes in the above-mentioned laws to one bill, but the requirements were that the EEA procedures were pure and that no more than the commitments of the government to the EEA Convention would be made. A change in navigating laws is proposed to introduce the Council Regulation and Council No. 1177/2010, which has rules on the rights of passengers traveling on sea or ship - travel routes. Since there is no detailed rules on the correcting of passengers at sea, it is necessary to change the course. The rules recommend bans on passenger discrimination on transport conditions, restrictions on discrimination against disabled persons and motorists, assistance to them, passenger rights on leaving or delaying, minimal information to be provided for passengers, complaint treatments and general rules on the implementation of regulations. The rules apply to ships on plans with passengers, but various ships are the exception of its set of values. These include smaller ships carrying only up to 12 passengers, ships where crew members are not more than three, and ships are on sight and encounters, e.g. A ship for travel service. However, the rules do not require orders to be made or refuse to change or replace ships, infrastructures, harbors, or ports. In that case, arrangements are not responsible for the removal or delay of the trip due to weather conditions. Due to traffic laws, the bill's proposal for changes in traffic laws aimed at ensuring recovery for two EEA regulations on the other hand, Regulation No. 167/2013, on the development of tractors, and on the other hand, in accordance with EU Regulation No. 168/2013, about the development of motorcycles. Both regulations require that the manufacturer's fine, the manufacturer's representative, the importer, or the manufacturer of a driver's vehicle should be provided if they present false information on the formality theory that may result in the induction of machinery. The same is true if the fake test results are obtained, the information relating to technical information is secreted or denied. The bill adds relief for such fines. However, this guilt warrant will have an indirect effect on land in view of the fact that the country does not produce tractors or motorcycles. In this country, immigrants care for motor vehicles only to a very small extent so far. In addition, changes in the definition of motorcycles and mechanical instruments are proposed in accordance with EU Regulation No. 168/2013. The suggestion is that the maximum weight of these vehicles in traffic laws is no longer recommended, but it will be further implemented in a regulation that creates a greater flexibility in dealing with changed vehicles and conditions. Then there are changes in transport accidents testing laws. The requirements for changing that law are aimed at ensuring that the two EEA types already implemented are consistent with the directives for the investigation of marine accidents and the control of flying accidents. Key changes are first suggested that in certain cases accidents and incidents, the DMP will no longer be able to decide whether an investigation will take place, but it will be mandatory. Second, the Commission's legislation in the investigation of marine accidents and incidents is enlarged according to the directive for the investigation of marine accidents. Third, it is suggested that a minister's authority be dismissed in order to direct it to the Committee to repeat a case, but such a warrant violates the independence of the Committee, according to ESA opinion. Rather, it is suggested that the committee should give specific support to whether issues are repeated. V.E.G. President. I have now explained the main subject of the bill. I suggest that the bill be referred to what. Environmental and transport committees for the proper treatment and treatment of 2rd courses.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u33	A respectable president. I recommend here for the bill to the final budget for 2014. The bill is submitted in accordance with law No. 88/1997, of the state's budget, to confirm state accounts by 2014. The production of the number elements of the bill complies with the budget and budgets of 2014 and the results of the state bill for the same year and has the same format as the bill for the final budget in the previous years. The bill uses the same work protocol as it used to calculate financial change due to sectoral anomalies and payment and provision at the end of each year's budget. According to the 45 st. The budget must be paid in the final budget for financial payment beyond the current budgets and any unused documents not transferred from year to year. The bill shall also state the ruined loans of the past year. At the same time, a special file should be submitted for stored legal documents and for the members who have overstepped the budget of the year. Thirty-seventh. By the end of the account year, the law is authorized to hold a ruined budget and in a similar way to subsidies the previous year's external expenses. The contents of the bill are largely balanced on the way to Article 1. has been consulted to change the budget to the extent that the taxpayable income according to budgets and budgets has been turned aside. In this case, institutions or projects that are funded by government income will be given more or less authority to manage income depending on whether or not the income has proved to be greater than or less than the original plans. Two. is proposed to the financial status of the year by the end of the year. This means that there are leftovers and external fees that do not move between years and thus do not change the annual budget. This includes projects that depend on laws other than financial laws, such as social security and pension commitments. The SmPC 1 package contains an overview of budget positions at the end of 2014 that are expected to be transferred to 2015. So it's a different endpoint than the one suggested to be dropped at the end of the year, according to Article 2. The bill. The package 2 with the bill provides an overview of the base of the number. The overview shows the origin of all the budgets of 2014 for both total and individual financial resources. It consists of overcrowded budgets from the previous year, budgets under budgets and funds, transfers within the year, and changes in budgets because of the disproportionateness of the state's income under this bill. Next, expenses are provided according to government bills and, at the end of the year, financial facilities. Total resources in 2014 were 657.3 billion. But the cost by the state bill was 642.5 billion. This year's financial status was thus positive at 14,8 billion dollars, or about 2.2% of the total budget of the year. The end point of the year is a total of 33.5 billion. leftover warrants and 18.7 billion dollars. external fees for individual budgetors. As always, there are several irregular teams that are a target in terms of dissociation of account tools from budgets. First of all, there is a charge of 5.2 billion. waste rights on the budget of Pension bonds due to a lower rate of payable commitments in terms of government bills and budgets. Secondly, 4.7 billion bucks. external fees for canceling tax charges. Third, 3 billion bucks. left-over clearance at the S.O.P.'s, where there was no need to contribute to all the financial resources authorized. Fourth, 2.6 billion. leftover warrants over the past Unpreserved expenses and fifthly 1.6 billion dollars. expansive expenditure of state-country valuables in companies and funds. So I'm going to go down to the bill's sides. In 1st. The bill offers proposals for changes in budgets in 2014 due to the anomalies of the markets of taxes and other management agencies from budgets and budgets. It is suggested that budgets be increased by over 2 billion dollars. According to this plan, funding projects with markets of government income. In particular, it is requested by the General's Office that these revenues be determined according to what they became in accordance with the State account or who evaluated the financial needs of tasks funded by these revenues. In general, budgets increase by markets over budgets but decrease if income has been less than expected. This criteria is not valid, however, because there are no significant changes in financial resources due to sectoral abnormalities where income and spending are not directly linked so that the change in income will have a direct impact on costs, such as the spending of life insurance. Two. The bill is a proposal for substitution of funding sites by the end of 2014. The main objective of this is to cut down the posts of budgets where expenses depend on laws other than financial laws or are contracted and to be controlled only by changes. The same is true of terms where expenses depend on economic, system, or accounting factors rather than on financial management of some administrative organisations. It is also up to the loss of permissions in general and other routine projects that exceed 10% of the budget of the enterprise unless there are special reasons for doing so. A financial status will also drop if an assignment is completed. According to point two. The bill goes down 6.2 billion dollars. waste permissions on the driver's base, but 10.2 billion dollars. ... ona foundation. The difference between these factors is the loss of budget positions on the budget where expenses depend on bank bills without equivalent payment from government funds during the year, such as subsidies of tax fees, subsidies on the value of assets and stocks and pension bonds. I have here, a respectable president, considered key elements of the bill. It presents the results of the Agency's operation of individual institutions, projects and the rest of the State Fund for financing in 2014. In this regard, we refer to reports in budgets and financial bills on the main points in the progress of the budgets and the main interest in earnings and expenditures. In 2014, the General Assembly has requested a report on the implementation of budgets. I suggest that the case be referred to a second. ... andwhat. The Senate budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u34	Madam President. V.E.G. Of course, financial and economic ministers know the government's budget, so I hope he respects it for my better, although I allow myself to ask for further information from him on one particular point. V.E.G. A minister gave me a very interesting parsus regarding the position of a camp loan fund, and I could hear that he was reporting that the fund had not had to be used for his approval, I heard a figure of 3 billion. That's good news. I'd like to, since we're discussing the final budget, to pray to the highest degree. A minister in brief to review the position of the fund and its prospects. I know he can do it with the biggest lines, definitely in the two minutes he has. I think it's a very bad news that's being brought here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u35	A respectable president. Sadly, the state funds have had to put up some 50 billion apartment loans in recent years after the financial and economic setbacks. Fifty billion are the contributions that have come directly from a government fund to support the fund and ensure complete minimum financial status of the fund. This has been necessary because the state's budget has declared that it will stand as the back of an apartment loan because of the commitments it has made. In 2014, some handsome contributions were expected to be made to the fund and, as explained here, were found to be relatively more practical than those before the end of 2013. You can celebrate. To this day, the fund has dealt with considerable financial problems, and as a result, it has been a reason to be concerned about how long the fund's work will be continued. This year it seems to me that the apartment loan fund will not need government support for the operation in particular. In the past year, the sea has been releasing property and returning to the prices of property that he received on the grounds of mortgages and other financial problems for business officials, which should be a cause for rejoicing. However, this project in itself remains unsolved as to how we see the longer - term activities of the fund.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u36	Madam President. Is it not too late to say now that what people are wondering about the future of an apartment loan fund? I'm asking the highest. Minister: When can it be expected that a person will come to some conclusion? Who is it that suggests her, is he, or is the highest. The Minister of hostilities or the whole government? When can this be expected? It would be fine if he could explain the matter a little about it. I am glad that the financial resources of the camp loans are far better than expected at this time. That's why I stayed in my tracks when I was at the highest point. Of course, two years ago, a minister gave this information that, in the past year of the government, I believe was very strongly accused of how the funds for concentration were handled. Then there were figures held here during the council, and this was held at least once. A senator said that if I remember correctly, he would probably be set free to 147 billion. However, considering that we have not had to contribute to him only about 50 billion, which is truly a huge amount, but it could have been a lot heavier on account of the payer, I find this good news to me. I'm asking the highest. A minister: Can you conclude that the fund has come through the scrap and that it does not have to be given more money?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u37	A respectable president. The money marked is an apartment loan fund for the 2016 budget is primarily due to government debts that cause at least some of the loans that are not available to him until the previous figures have been calculated, thus becoming a product of interest to the future. The wealth of government expects to improve the distinction that it has made for other business banks. I believe that in the circumstances that exist today, there is no special reason to continue with the funds of a general loan market. However, it remains to answer in a way that will continue to ensure that the role of the fund on which those in need of special and more payment, social loans, and especially how access to loans outside the capital area will remain secure, leaving the funds behind. I feel that this is the main project, and it's the custody of the Minister of Households, the Social Affairs Minister, who takes the bank's command through the board to continue working on these matters and that it is being won. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u38	Madam President. This may be a matter that does not arouse any ill effects in members of the council at times. Last law may not be too exciting, but it still merits all attention, as it were. þm. Össur's ossuary correctly indicates in the hall. [[Yeah.]] You see, they are very important, especially if you are making new political decisions and implementing them through the final budget, as can be done. True, it will not be appropriate here on a large scale, that I should be able to see, and it will be shown in the bill, which is all right, that these sectors, as in other fields, were done well at the beginning of the last term. In 2008, there was a high level of purity in dropping huge positions that had been built up the years preceding, when men had not been very busy, and in an effort to shape specific procedures around this matter. The report shows that, basically, this is what was built on the relative races and fairly fast, although not less than the highest level of running. I think it was better than the 2009/2010 season that Bjarni Benediktsson's financier to provide the final budget, which refers to the rules of work that were developed in 2009. In a gross way, the idea was to place a specific roof on the transfer of general joints. Men could move 4% of the missing sources from the run to next year. If they were doing well year after year, they could accumulate up to 10%. Some such rule must be with people. It is absolutely necessary that there be any motivation for humans, and they will enjoy it to some extent if they succeed in such a practical way that there will be some leftovers. On the other hand, it is impossible to get into some huge sums of money, which, for some reason, can lead to quick - up expenses, and humans have little control. The other side, and perhaps the worse it is, is a reason to enter the highest. Secretary of finance only according to the management of extracurricular expenses, i.e. A debt that will then be made on the state's budget and taken year after year in accounting for the institutions. Many have lived through difficult years in business, e.g. Many high school students during the past 15◯20 years, having gathered an old debt on their shoulders, and having rules in common, are most likely to repeat the next year, which, of course, is not usually impossible. Perhaps people are just adding to the angle because they can't at all run within warrants, and that's when the poles are piled up. It was in this work arranged for some kind of order to be created, and it was introduced and discussed and carried out, if I know best, which would be in the sense that if a person managed to get his business in the presence of the authorities and they made up despite debts that were kept by positive conclusions three years in a row, a period of reward would begin in the sense that men would cut down something of this debt. In some cases this was done, and for example, if I know the truth, I benefited at some time. But in other cases, this has not been done or has not been done, and in there I think it would be far more necessary to make the project work. We have drawn up issues that embarrass all of us as part of a part of the past or as a responsibility to do so, such as the balance of agricultural schools. Of course, it is not possible for organizations to live under this tiresome yoke, perhaps for a decade. That old debts are always on their shoulders, and as a result, all the lights become red when viewed by their landmarks and are not delighted to be a ruler in such an institution. It may sometimes be an old problem that has nothing to do with the current manager of the institution or their ability to work on these very things. I don't know, for example, that in Hóla School accounting, the state is still in debt because of the ten - year - old lost business requirement. This is true of some school trauma, and he lost money because he was not paid. But then he's stuck with it all as a tilt year after year. I'd love to hear more about this. Second, the apartment loan fund is, of course, delighted that the fund did not prove to be in the emergency situation in which people thought it would be necessary to install another $3 billion for their own goods. Granted, with the funds, a great deal of pressure has already been made. There's something about 50 billion total, if I recall correctly, that has been paid. Let us not forget, though, things in return, so that reasonableness is now cared for by the camp loans. For one thing, it was to be expected that he, like all other financial institutions, loan agencies, would have some post - collapse incident. Second, of course, he took a considerable amount of expenses for action that he shared in, along with others in the breakdown of debt, freezing loans, 110% courses, and so on. Of course, they did it with their eyes, knowing that the fund did not have a table to take it completely off and that it needed support. Third, it is clear that some mistakes made in the past are difficult to cope with. Now, on the other hand, the fund has managed to reinvest some of its money on interest-employing revenues with purchases for that cash on the Marine Bank, and it may well be; I don't know exactly how favorable that trade is, but I give myself that it's at least a much better option than to lie with free money and try to keep it. I'm not going to protest in myself as the ultimate. Secretary of finance said. Everything he said about what needs to be considered was correct. If people are seriously talking about taking an apartment loan account out of the market, there are things that are not foreordained and that may not even be today, such as loans to apartment buildings on the country and social parts of the housing system and other things in that way. I have no reason to believe that it cannot continue to be practical, and it is important that the funds may be loaned to general homes or buildings, even here in the capital area, to the level that we have obtained by the European Regulation, i.e. to small apartments, ordinary apartments, which are then thought of on social grounds that it is generally changing changers of income - rich people who buy smaller apartments but leave them borrowing into huge errors and other things in that way. In this way the fund's work may become more practical and ideal. It should be that way. I have not been convinced that, although I may temporarily be knocking, or others like that offer better and more favorable terms. But why, as the dance would say, would a det lang det Longe løb, not a fund with the responsibilities of the State be able to offer the best? It is strange if not, for he should have access to financial resources in the money market, because he has a trust fund. It is strange if, for the length of time, it cannot be used to offer a fine standing. Madam President. Finally, I just want to talk about the collapses, i.e. The highest external fees that are dropped. Of course, it is not surprising that old acquaintances, such as those of tax bills, have simply written more tax requirements than plans, and so natural that it is so cut down, health insurance, and pension insurance, and these, the irregularities that are always difficult to deal with and plan ahead. The five legal teams mentioned here are specifically addressed in an explanation of 2kres. The bill represents 88% of all the overlayed charges. But it leaves 12% of them, and I count that there are nearly 1.2 billion, and I ask, "What's the most important about it? ' Knows how to do it. Minister to explain? I honestly ask in relation to what I said earlier in my speech about the breakdown of such debt. Is inside these less than 1.2 billion, with the exception of these five big teams being cut off by someone, and is there something important to consider? I'm waiting for the highest. The Minister to inform us.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u39	A respectable president. I thank you for the discussion that has been here that had several traditional points of the final financial law. It is not surprising that some institutions such as the camp loan fund are involved here. First, I'm going to mention a breakdown of collected expenses beyond what was rightly indicated as a need to be taken, especially when it comes to accumulated sources that have become up to a decade old. I agree with that. I believe, though, that the Landsspians is the only outstanding example we have of a late era that had been set aside in dealing with the Land Hospital that if a person could turn the hospital down for three years, a congregation would be cut off from the surrounding palaces of the previous year. This was done by taking a 3/4 cumulative angle after the Landspians had passed the budget in three consecutive years. My review of the general issues is, and I've set them off in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, that, in fact, there should be a standard contract for such a case available to those citizens who are in this position to conduct the budget for a few years, it might be good to aim for three years, to be brought down by a cumulative tail of the previous year, which could be in two to three years, even one step if there is not a very large sum of money. That contract would be made between the Ministry of Education, the Bureau, and the Ministry of finance. Thus, the management board of the Agency could have a permanent land area, and it would be transparent and consistent in handling comparable cases by standard negotiations in this field. It would be predictable how we were going to deal with the cumulative problems of the previous years. I agree that there is no work to be won by allowing institutions to push such things ahead of them for far too long. This does not provide a clear picture of the situation at any time in the books of the past and of an old negative situation. However, it should be noted that the books do not contain a negative situation, nor do they prevent access to each year's budget. It is primarily like a shadow of the operation, but it does not paralyze the function, even if the book is negative because of the previous years. This is what I envisioned we would do. I've set them off at the Ministry, to get a CPA on these contracts. With regard to camp loan funds, the fund has rightly been identified here that certain boundaries are set under European legislation or European State Support regulations regarding competition for housing conditions. Here we are faced with the question of whether something is won, especially if the fund continues in the general housing bar. Because of our Kingdom responsibilities in particular, I'd like to mention that it is, of course, remarkable that we should be able to get our funds into that position, so in a negative sense, so that I don't get misunderstood, it was sort of an amazing mess that it understood that a fund that works under government protection with a kind of back guarantee, and takes only the first course of credits for loans and loans only to the level of certainty, should be restored to a position of tens of billions of government support. But as men know who have studied this story, it was a collection of failing decisions over the years that led to this situation. For example, it was a huge loss of loans to a roommate, a huge loss of that activity, but it was now a very good idea at the time to make use of these favorable loans to increase the number of rented apartments. Eventually, the fund was stuck with empty, committed societies, and a half finished house, resulting in a loss of billions of dollars. It was also at the time a problem with the changes in the fund's activities when he changed his financing and was exposed to the payment problem. Of course, there was an all - time answer to what should be done if they wanted to pay back the loan. By then it had been arranged so that the minister would always be able to cover a high payment fee, which would either equal the financial status of the fund because of the risk payment or prevent many from coming in line to get rid of business with the fund. As the years went by and the situation came up, the fee was never recorded because it may have been so unpopular to forbid people to come to the apartment loans and make up those favorable loans. But the strange situation had come to the point where businessmen wanted to get out of business with the money that was specially set up to offer the best possible loans. So the business partners wanted to look elsewhere because they could get even better terms. The amount of money that could be paid for at least part of the loans that were then planned was avoided. It may not have been possible because of all the loans. But this resulted in additional damage. I'm not going to trace all of this, but this is an example of a case in which men claimed to have seen the problem and how to deal with it, but it was not. This too has been about the collapses. I don't have my mind broken down when it comes to the most important things listed on the list of drains, but I think that there's nothing big about the accumulated expenses over the years but that's pretty small. I think I have responded to the key questions that were addressed to me through this discussion and have concluded my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u40	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. Of course, it is possible to learn better through the discussion of the Board of Shepherds where these little lawyers are. There are not large sums of money there. But I'm interested in it, especially from the highest. A minister rightly mentioned, it is so important that there is some harmony in this. I take so heartily that by molding a fixed rule, even having the standard form of agreement to be prepared to cope with this challenge and to put forth effort to achieve business ventures in addition to a reward later in the hope that the light will be sparked and the shadow will leave them, the debt that they will draw after them, even if it is dead, and if it is just literature, and is not growing, or anything like that will happen. It hasn't been quite this fun sometimes. Recently, for example, a medical facility had to be closed for days before her account was to be closed to ask specifically for financial openings because she went into the year with debts that had not been set aside. I'm not gonna name her because of her. Finally, only on an apartment loan fund. A fund with a first mortgage and a roof on loans and the state as a sponsor should not have been able to face such a problem. But there are a number of contributing reasons. Of course, the collapse itself is one of them, a mistake once made, as well as what the fund was supposed to do and take along. It may also be said that there may not be an inexpensive part of the account for all the cost of collapse and all that, although the state had to put his own money on this magnitude compared to the huge banks and other financial institutions that did not just land in a little trouble and needed to raise its own money, it just went overhill. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u41	Madam President. That's the beauty of the highest. The secretary of the economy and the secretary of the United States says that there is an intelligent discussion with him and at least he is trying best to answer. We've been talking about an apartment loan fund. It is natural that only housing facilities can be discussed. But I'm not going to give it up. It belongs to a minister. This, however, is the legal group we may have been serving the most. The government will demonstrate the cards. It is about three years later. Governments took over, and all that time, people have been waiting for Godot. They have been waiting to see clear lines on the maintenance of housing, how best. The government intends to try to direct them. Time and again, people have been asking for some kind of policy on issues and the future of an apartment loan fund from the highest level. Secretary of society and housing. I recall that I think that it was one of the first works of my Senate, when the election began, to grant the highest court request. A minister to put men on one or two committees, I think, to discuss this. The case was so far advanced that the terms the members of the Parliament had begun to address and protect the future financial resources of the apartment. If I correct them, there were various options tore up in those committees, but then there was no word of the case. Now it can well be, and in itself is absolutely right at the highest. Secretary of finance, to say that we are seeing, at last, when we are getting up from a continuous economic season in the middle of 2010, that the banks that have enjoyed unusual benefits in recent years may be starting a late competition for mortgages on the free market. It is noteworthy, however, that what motivates banks is the social capital - through the pension fund of traders, which reduced the growth of their mortgages, leading to at least one of the large banks, but not so powerful. These are changes that are of great importance. Of course, you wonder, " How is it that the nation's happy Land Bank has at least not yet followed in its footsteps? ' But the fact is, when you're talking about Iceland, whether Iceland's a good country, and that's what you're talking about almost every day at community service, it's now that mine knows that Iceland is a very good society; here, it's looking up a little bit better. Four governments, all of whom have contributed in an effort to resolve the problems and complications created in 2008, have been in constant operation here. There's one spot in Iceland, there's one thing that makes it particularly difficult to be a young Icelander today, and that's the housing situation. Of course, that is why they ask: " What remains that long worm, where is the policy of housing? I'm not necessarily going to insist. The secretary of finance to answer that question, on the other hand, he as an odder of the members of the board knows that after seeing solutions in these materials, people have become very long - suffering. As far as I am concerned with the apartment loan, I can agree with the highest degree in my life. Ministers there went wrong. V.E.G. A minister had a fine number, since he traced it. It is possible that there may be two main causes, the amount of money that went to a free - market partner, especially here in Reykjavík, who lost allillily, as well as that they did not have a good fortune to pay, which had been pointed out for years. I'm not going to blow my mouth at the highest. Secretary of finance for that, but he would like to visit the authors who wrote a report on the apartment loans in his day. There he might see that there is now, in particular, the guilt, in case a fine should be called in its own time, at the door of a government that neither I nor the last am I. A member of the administrative body who has been involved in this discussion has some responsibility. It is, however, absolutely legitimate. Minister's going to pass the future of an apartment loan fund. Likely, like us in our government position, he began to extend his desire to see the continuation of the work that was on top of the highest. The social and housing minister at the beginning of this terms and I was asking for the following. It all points to it and is drawing up to at least this aspect of housing will not happen during this terms. It is noteworthy that much less money has had to be spent on the apartment loans because of his lack of money, but at the time when the loans were frozen, people prophesied the worst. The loan was then attached to long pipes. This benefited consumers. Let us not forget that much of that product was the consumers of this fortune that the camp loan fund offered the worst in the loan market. This was one of the measures taken to relieve human suffering, in fact, was done here with everyone's approval at the high General Assembly. At that time, however, three times the amount of money that would have to be spent on meeting the cost of a position that had come up in the fund. They were talking about a fixed amount of over three times that amount, or 150 billion. Here at this council hall, the crowds were sliding. And if there's one beloved senator I miss here as a friend instead, it's why. paritaprevir The God - Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson Thorddar, who lived up to great speeches and suffering in his day and who prophesied very black for the future. The result, however, was much better. But I would like to ask the highest. The minister of the following questions: Can I draw conclusions from his answers and talks earlier that there will be no further financial support from the State to the fund? So, have we sailed through this catastrophe? Second, I'd also like to say that I think it's perfectly legitimate at the highest level. Ministers to have an opinion of what the fund will be like in the future. I can't see better than I can see. A minister is, in effect, saying that his attitude is that he should be canceled. It's hard to put another meaning in that word at the highest. A minister when he says that he sees no special reason why the general market cannot accept these general mortgages, which he called. That may well be so. But I'll agree completely like a dog. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon said here, especially in the country. I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of finance, who seldom gets the sense of talking to the air, and whom I have sometimes described as a difficult opponent because he has his own idegolia clear: if the top. The minister of finance has come to the conclusion that it should be only to cut off the fund then, he must have thought about how to care for the needs of the country. I'm convinced that I and the highest. A minister of the United States feels that we want to strengthen the position of the region as much as possible, but he considers it to be the highest. Minister that the bank market is ready to accept the problems it brings with the intention of caring for the country in the same way that the camp loan fund did? Tells you the highest. A minister can lay down an apartment loan fund without thinking of some system that ensures that those of us who live outside the shadowy southwest angle can in the same way as the rest of us can put up a roof over our heads? Finally, it is possible to talk about the housing issues they are dealing with today's black spots. The tenet market where young people are literally thrown out in the wild laws of the jungle because our young people today, those who do not have well - paying parents who can raise their own money, or are able to get into it, have no choice but to go to the market, where they may be paying twice as much on it each month as they would need to pay off their loans, be assured the mortgage. How's the top? Ministers see that his government, or after any government incident, will settle this? Recently, on behalf of the Human Invasion Union, we received a very well - chosen brochure that came into the chamber of the members of Congress. It showed who the need was to welcome only the young ones who are available each year and who are predicting the relationship's buildings. All you could see was that it was sparkling down there. Then the experience and the law of the market would tell me, and certainly the highest. Minister, the result must be that rent prices continue to rise. This is what I think is a Scarer because I think it's such an important part of the struggle that it's likely to be a driving force and an incentive for young people, especially what has the greatest survival initiative and initiative, to lose from the country. One thing that all of us, wherever we are, should work together is to correct this situation. That's the spot in Iceland. This is the only thing I think today may be a reason to stop when you are asked, "Is Iceland a good community? I think it's with the best communities, but I have to admit that this is a black spot on our community. This is the difference between Iceland and the communities we know so well in the North countries, he's very, very big, even dramatic. These questions would be welcome to the highest degree. A minister of finance might, in plain language as his hope and direction, try to enlighten me.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u42	A respectable president. I'm here to deal with a few questions. Whether to expect further funds to be paid is asked. No statement can be made, but the budget shows a plan for the next year, and it can depend on whether further funds will be needed. For the future, I do not see the need for an apartment loan fund at this general housing market, but it must be guaranteed how people outside the capital area, especially in the country, can have access to secure housing. We can envision a number of ways in which we can do this. One would be to have some kind of services at those who want to be active in this market, that they simply are not in the business of providing mortgages without making them available for the whole country. There are also other ways. I notice why. A senator is concerned about the general housing market. It may be of interest to say that while we can agree that it is a problem for young people to get roofs over their heads in general, real estates do not seem far up to the cost of construction, at least at the present time it seems that there is not generally much housing. However, real - estate prices may have come out of the roof in certain areas, but the main market in Iceland is high interest. This, therefore, is linked to economics in general. I agree that while the bid doesn't grow, I'm sorry to expect both, rent and shelter in general, to go up with the demand we know today. If we do nothing but increase our Kingdom support, that support may be further manifested. [[The president calls.]] So in particular, we need to consider that the forward gate and the largest single action to improve the circumstances of a housing market would be a procedure that would ensure long - term growth.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u43	Madam President. What a marvelous prospect that was! The minister of finance here announces to young people who need to make an effort to get a roof over their heads. V.E.G. A minister rightly stated that the most important thing is the cost of interest in Iceland. What do they see? Yes, the bank manager has made it very clear that at least the next two losses are likely to be correct, if I understand them correctly, to make it clear. Of course, it may be temporary because we are sailing through a difficult period that involves decommissioning a pensioner and that means that you have to be with everything and probably no sails - but it's still the vision of the future. V.E.G. A minister also said that in itself no action could be taken to lighten the lives of young people in these matters because it would only lead to increases. Now, this is kind of what we call, with permission of the highest power. President, Patch 22. Then there's nothing to be done. That's a bit out of control with any government. I think there are things you can do. I just want to think about it here that when I read that one of our friends in South Africa had set up for Vicodin and built a house there, a 200 - square - foot [90 m] house, which he sold at the expense price. It was part of society's efforts to attract new people. 16 million, sir, faithful. What young Icelander would not be able to offer 90 square feet [90 square m] new housing for 16 million? So something can be done if you meet people, both your government and your community. I'd really like to ask the highest part. A minister of one question: Did we go too far when we were cleaning up after the crisis and in the world of banking when we banned the loans? At one time, I was able to buy a home because I borrowed a mortgage from my parents and in - law parents. [[The president calls.]] Everything went well. Could it be, though, that we are still hard today?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u44	Madam President. I don't think there's anything you can do. Secretary of the house has already put in prime radios to deal with the situation. For the council, there is a bill for change in rents, a home relief bill is on the way, as is a root-based bill. All of these are measures that deal with different aspects of the problem we discuss here. All I'm pointing out is that while there's a shortage on the front side, it doesn't help on the demand side by itself. This may lead to higher rent prices and higher housing costs; support in want may end only in the landlord's pocket or in the housekeeper's pocket. I'm sorry. [[Up front.]] Yes, it was on the forward side that seems to have done fine wrong. The founding bill is intended only on the front side of the supply. Clearly, it takes effort and cooperation with the rural communities to make more property here in the capital area, perhaps where this area has been the most widely equipped for construction. I agree that it is not a reasonable, permanent solution to forbid all loans. I know many personal examples that borrowing has been important in reaching a difficult time. I was referring to the growth and interest cost in Iceland earlier because, although it is not enough for men to look at. The currency is often discussed, but economic stability and responsible public finances are the basis for a lower interest level. Unfortunately, at present we are in a place where we have increased pay far beyond production and have called ourselves into practice at a labour market during the past year higher interest levels. [[The president calls.]] This must be learned. If people don't understand this, they will never see less than the ones we have today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u45	Madam President. I'm going to thank the highest. Secretary of finance for agreeing with me that we may have gone too far on the loans. I'll take it so that it's the highest attitude. The secretary of finance to the banking system, the part of which we have some influence, and, for example, can dictate a tenant policy. In fact, I believe this part of the community, young Icelanders who are coming out of school, who are starting a working family, began to walk into the community as workers, that they can have the opportunity for this place, this support, this party, to climb the first and often the most difficult of it. If we're here trying to talk about solutions to this problem, which is the housing paste that this part of the generation goes on, I think we should get together to let it become something more and more than the words empty here in these fine halls of the Generals, then let's do something about it, because it really matters. Then, too, I want to be upbuilding, like the highest. Minister, of course, you can say, as I thought the Minister would agree here earlier, to influence the forward side by administrative action. There are men in small rural areas in a country where the private and the executives in the province come together. This is something the government needs to do and look for a partnership with the communities. V.E.G. A minister then talks about the primes. House and Social Affairs Minister. Guð's good news. But we've been waiting a little bit, and sometimes half-heartedly here, we lose the good woman finally bringing the products she's been hatching the last loss.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u46	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize a mortgage to consumers. The bill's on the roof. 519 and 383th. The bill suggests the specialisation of home loans to consumers, but since 2001, home loans to consumers have fallen under the standards of consumer loans. If the bill is legalized, property loans will be made to consumers from the Minister of the Internal Affairs to the Secretary of Economic and Economic Affairs, in line with the President's section on the switch between administrations, No. 71/2013. The objective of the bill is two-way, one-way to ensure consumer protection in promotion, counseling, hosting and sharing mortgages to consumers, and the other to promote responsible loans and to counteract the excessive debt of consumers. Key changes from the current court are as follows: 1st The general requirement is not to influence the quality of the business practices of employees and credit workers, i.e. that the structure of a worksheet complies with the overall responsibilities to the lenders and lenders that the staff remuneration is not likely to create moral problems or interests. This additional general requirement is a specific requirement for borrowing employees who carry out credit and payment evaluations without success. 2. The skills and knowledge of employees and lenders are required. It is suggested that until March 21st, 2018, only the individual employee's experience will be looked forward to an assessment of knowledge and ability so that creditors will be allowed to meet these new requirements. 3. The requirement is no binding of property loans or loans requirements for consumers to negotiate with other separate financial products or financial services. A creditor will still be allowed to offer mortgages, where, at the same time, consumers are allowed to negotiate for other separate financial products or financial services. 4. Increased emphasis is made on how to explain the agreements on mortgages offered, for it is of utmost importance that consumers get the rights and a good explanation of key aspects of the loans so that they can figure out what is most suitable according to their circumstances. 5. In particular, you will consider how credit advice should be carried out and clearly separated from lenders and lenders information. Prior to the granting of a loan adviser, it must be made aware of whether or not there is a market-based loan offer or a loan offer made by a certain lender. At the same time, he must inform us of the sum of fees. A loan counselor is forbidden to call himself independent unless he or she consults with the market loan offers and he does not accept payment from the lender, one or more, for the advice of the counselor. 6th There is a requirement for creditors to register before they are permitted to perform services. Crediters are also obliged to be part of the decision-making committee on business with financial companies. These requirements are expected to have negligible impact on the country, since credit services are not at all identified on the market for mortgages. A loan exchange refers to a job service for financial gain given to a person who does not work as a creditor, which includes a presentation or offer to consumers of a mortgage, aid to consumers by taking up preparatory work for a property loan or by making a contract on property loans to the lender. 7. There are special regulations for loans linked to foreign currency. This is related to the financial and economic bill of change in growth laws and insurance that are proposed to be restored to the services of successful loans. This bill suggests that consumers need to meet stricter conditions for the payment of mortgages associated with foreign currency than with overall mortgages. At the same time, a consumer who is vulnerable to currency risks has the right to change the posts of loans associated with foreign currency to another currency for certain conditions fulfilled. 8. It is suggested that a creditor, on the basis of more information from an consumer, agree to lend a loan despite the negative results of payment, as it shows that a consumer is likely to repay the loan. The investigator should documented support for this decision, explain it to the consumer, and preserve its data in support. As an example of an event in which a creditor might consider a reason to lend a loan despite a negative payment, there is a temporary lack of income, such as due to birth vacations, studies, or seasonal projects. It would also be unnatural if a creditor had to refuse the currency of a mortgage because of a negative payment in the cases where an consumer can demonstrate a credit report showing that he can handle the regular payment of his mortgage. In spite of the negative results of payment, a creditors today can lend mortgages that the sole requirement met the value of loans or other insurance borrowed at the time when borrowing is more than the sum of loans. 9. It is suggested that the SEC be given permission for the use of a special national economist in the form of rules for the maximal housing rate of property loans to consumers. Monitoring will be permitted to establish the rules of using financial instruments. The maximum value can be 60 to 90% and may vary according to species of consumer loans and groups. There should be extra space on account of the purchase of the first estate. 10. It is suggested that the relative limit of payment will be changed from 1% of the amount reimbursed to 0.2% of the amount paid for every year remaining from the interest binding period. This aims to promote the growth of loans with solid growth, especially on uncertain loans. 11th Certain measures will be made to legalize solutions for consumers, both before and after holding property on forced sales. It is suggested, on the one hand, that prior to requiring an obligatory sale on the basis of a contract on mortgage loan, consumers are given the opportunity to request resources that could solve their financial problems, such as reimbursement or return of terms. However, it is suggested that if a building submitted as a guarantee for a mortgage is sold at auction and that the surrender does not drive to the home of the mortgage, the lender should offer the consumer an agreement on payment at the financial institutions of the loan that will take into account his financial resources. It is important to note that there is no significant change from the current market. 12th It is suggested that the NGOs office be placed in general surveillance of the terms of the bill, but the UN has a specific check on the terms of the bill, on the profession, on the work, on the qualifications, on the level of knowledge and knowledge, on the line of mortgages and on the permafrost of creditors. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee, after the end of this discussion and then through 2nd. At the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u47	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of history, and it's good to have this case out. It's just two things I want to make up for publicity and to ask the highest. Minister in more detail. On the one hand, if a borrower has a history of payment, it is assumed that while the results of a pay assessment may be negative, it is intended to consider it. As members of a council, we hear a great deal about the people who are in the tenant market and who are in the sky - high rent, however, they do not receive payment on payments that are even lower than the rent they already have received. I wondered, " Do I need to put it more clearly in the bill itself? ' A minister would like to ask him to explain this to us. On the other hand, I have another request for the bonding ratio. The bill suggests that the SEC is authorized to place a roof on the level of mortgages and is quoted in other countries. I think we need to take a good look. The sky, of course, is spoken of as a wide distance of 60 to 99 percent. The report contains a table showing a mortgage rate with extra loans and it's pretty high and it's the current pledge ratio. By means of extra loans, the share ratios have been set in 85◯90%. I would like to ask, Is that what I want to put on a mortgage with extra loans? V.E.G. A minister mentioned that specific laws would apply to those who are buying their first estate, and I would like to ask: Do we have data on how the odds of book making are divided between those who are borrowing from their original property and those of others? It would be helpful to realize the difference.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u48	Mr. President. There's a question of payment. In a 22nd degree. The bill is about a decision on loan. It says that the borrower works by documented internal rules and that he should only lend a mortgage if he feels that a consumer is likely to repay with loans taking into account the results of credit and payment. So it is in the case that a borrower fails to pass the credit ratings that are being referred to as the possibility that he will receive a loan if he or she is likely to be able to repay. There are two things to be done, one to keep all the data on the extra research, and the borrower is obliged to do so, to keep his guard around the data, and the borrower's informed that this is the situation. It is actually about consumer protection principles that need to be kept in mind when it comes to such loans. I imagined that a lender who would have failed to preserve the data and could not show why a loan was given in spite of the negative results of a payment assessment could be a problem by collecting it on loans. This was a question about the odds of bonding whether the mortgages are being viewed solely or taking into account extra loans. This is merely the loans discussed here, i.e. The real estate loan itself. I'd like to draw attention to the fact that these odds are thought to be national response devices, i.e. If the situation has developed that banks have greatly increased their odds and everyone has reached the highest level even to 90%, then there may be a reason for the SEC to hit the loan limit. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So it is a national economy, and far beyond that, it is some form of consumer protection.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u49	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. There's a lot of interesting things in the report with the bill, and I'd like a later answer to asking specifically about the mortgage. It says that insured debts are now about 14% of the property debt. Long insurance loans are still the most popular loan form, with the low, normal payment load, since this long 40 - year - assured loan has been used by the lowest earner to get a roof over his head. It says that 50% of the new credit sources to real estate are insured, which is still a decline in share. Tells you the highest. Ministers find it practical to engage in the activities that were ever proclaimed in connection with the mass-defeation insurance, which are banning loan party 40 years' worth on loans? I just want to ask you something, I know that a minute is a short time to answer this, but I think it's interesting numbers that are listed in the report.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u50	Mr. President. I think it would be most desirable if the price insurance could be used at a consumer loan market. There are many views here. There must be practical external circumstances and good conditions when such changes are made. With regard to the Icelandic bar, which is now considered shutting down and with the loan only as long as the 25 year's worth of credit, the matter is growing to the point that we are assessing the impact on people's ability to pass payment under their changed circumstances. Then we've requested that, in addition to the SEC, there be data on how many of those who paid and took 40 years of credit would have passed credit if only 25 years of loan had been offered. There are these things that I think most of all are that we look carefully. [[The president calls.]] At 40 years of loan, borrowers are blessed with a high rate of interest, and the capitals in the long future, which I think many have not fully understood when they took such loans, as the talk has been over the past few years on this loan. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u51	A respectable president. It's a very important bill that we have here, and it's very rich. Maybe it's a little superficial that you mention in the 1st. but I'd like to say in view of the last words. A minister that, of course, the payment rate and the 40 - year - old loans have been difficult in this regard, such as the highest. A minister said that people did not quite realize how they worked. That is why I rejoice that it is being examined in the very context of this study. A minister spoke of, because especially for those with less income, and for young people, this may be the only way to invest, i.e. investing in these 40 - year - old loans because there's a possible cost of payment, if that's what you can talk about. It's a big deal. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister. He speaks of the general remuneration and general employment of those who work with these institutions and says they must be harmonised and promote a more effective and efficient risk management. I get it this way, if I just say it in human languages, that this means that people who work in these departments in banks, for example, could not get any offers. I get it that way. Can the minister confirm that my understanding of conditions of employment is correct?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u52	Mr. President. With regard to our 40 - year loan, it can be said that considering the interest we have enjoyed over the past few years, there is no single drop in the bank's head until at least half of the loan time. We all know who have been involved in politics that people regularly come to us and discuss growth and insurance and that they have been paying dues for so many years and that the head chair has not dropped anything. A closer look was to be made when the loan was taken according to a plan for the individual payment far into the future. In addition, infidelity may be said to have many other advantages beyond the prices of loans, such as. the result of a more efficient growth control device at the National Bank. If we are now able to improve the environment, as we have so often been discussing in this chamber, in terms of growth being reduced and we could create an environment for fixed growth, insured for an extended period of time, I think it would be for all a far more desirable environment to borrow than what we are discussing, 40 years equal to payment loans. It was asked about the remuneration, and, yes, it is correct to understand that those who make a decision on loan should not be at the most successful remuneration rates, such as those referred to here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u53	President. We agree on that, chief. Ministers and I, of course, would be best if we could lend a loan to unscrupulous interest. There's only one big problem with what's happening. It's not possible while we're in the Icelandic crown. Therefore, we need to take steps that will allow us to live here in the same growth conditions and the same interest that the people in the lands around us have. I want to pray to the highest. Minister to further explain this to me with the payment fee. It has been reduced from 1% to 0.2 during the binding period. Should this make it easier to pay back a loan than it is now? Just a simple question like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u54	Mr. President. We do not fully agree on our prospects to create a market for regular growth of uncertain loans. There are conditions that must be met, including We need to get a better grip on the labour market and the way we negotiate the purchases and terms there and so many other things I have often mentioned. That certainly is not a simple task. In terms of payment, the purpose of the change is to increase the motivation to offer disloyal loans. One thing that prevents creditors from being willing to do that is a payment roof. Here it is being changed, according to the number of years left. In an explanation of 36 C.E. The bill is a substantial calculation that shows how these loans change in the current interest level after a difference in figure increase. I hope that the experiment designed to explain this by examples in the bill will be well explained because it is a fairly technical or complex matter to cover in short, but the more powdered it is to take together an explanation for a report. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u55	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for his history. I want him to know if it's not safe to say that this is where it is growing and strengthening the legal frame around the insurrections, but perhaps especially the prices of home loans to consumers. Clearly, there have been speculative issues in the courts on the legal process and, among other things, the granting of information that was judged illegally, even though it did not result in an invalidation of interest in court decisions, and other aspects of that law have been tested in a court of law. I'd like to start by inside the Minister by saying if he believed with the bill, that it approved, all the major legal uncertainty that has been exposed to the bank's most secure loans.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u56	Mr. President. In fact, I believe the bill is relatively neutral in this point, i.e. The bill does not make much difference between the insured and the disloyal loans in the way the above is attributed. In fact, courts have recently come to the conclusion that the loan as it has been granted has been passed, that the general terms of loans offered to consumers are not illegal. It has been tested on various grounds, both in terms of our commitments under the EEA agreements and on the basis of other Icelandic legislation. However, it is true that there is considerable debate in the bill on how this information exchange should be conducted and what creditors are put on. In fact, as this has only been discussed, it is a long way to discuss in the law how implementing equipment should be guaranteed to employees who are allowed to make decisions on these loans. It's a very high-level bill we have for the council. Among other things, they respond to comments on the unemployable ban on gang insurance. It is also in the foreign loans that are allowed today without barriers, but the bill has a considerable limit on foreign loans. So there are a number of factors, but not so much made up of individual loan forms. A senator asks about.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u57	A respectable president. What must be noted is that this is the government of the Sigmundur of Gunnlaugsson Gunollon and the advance party to provide a new law on home loans, securities, and Icelandic consumers. It may be that the category has not been able to uninvestigate what was, but its use of new legislation on the value of an apartment loan is of interest, as is the case with the actual application of additional forms of insurance, i.e. The insurance policy that men generally felt was a failure. Speaking of that, we've been asking about 40 years' worth of money, which the government has been preaching for a year and a half, should be removed by law and the Minister has had his legal record on the case if I have taken it right. Now it's been a year and a half, and I must be surprised to ask why it's not part of this matter, to borrow from them. Isn't the monopoly for the Chairman of the Economic and Business Committee, huh? paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson, to take advantage of the opportunity to change the case and meet this agreement of the administrations to forbid the 40-year loans? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u58	Mr. President. I traced it in my first speech in an antiquated way that it was desirable in many ways to cut down or eliminate the 40 years'worth of equal payment. The main reason is that credit - based property is so slow, it really is not the front of the loans. You're right. The question is, that this loan plan, the Iceland loans, has been considered in my Ministry. The evidence that we are now doing, and I haven't been able to think of a center that says how it would affect the current situation of screwing up for that 40 - year even loan. We have tried to do so by getting a comparison and simply asking how many of those who took such a loan would have passed the payment of 25 years. If we see a very negative conclusion from that view, it is a big decision to make now, forbid the 40 - year loans in today's situation, where few people feel that they have a chance to enter the housing market. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u59	Mr. President. I recommend a bill to correct a change in growth and insurance laws, No. 38/2001, National Intelligence Act, No. 36/2001, No. 33/2013, with subsequent changes. A similar bill was submitted to the last legislature convention and was not finished. So it is now brought back with some adjustments. The bill suggests that gang trust loans with the same conditions as foreign loans are permitted. This is what I was actually referring to in my first talk under the last part of the talk. This is in harmony with the view of the EFTA Agency, as we call ESA, which is presented in its most reasoned opinion from May 22, 2013, where the Agency believes that the non-addressed insurance loans in Iceland are not in accordance with the EEA principle of free capital flow. The Icelandic government then agreed to review the law on the health insurance loans in Icelandic dollars. To be careful to comply with foreign loans, loans associated with foreign currency are also suggested to be restricted, both from the perspective of consumer protection and from the local public interests. It should be noted that there is no limit to the giving of such loans at the moment. One is 7 and 8. The bill proposed changes to consumer loan laws where loans are expected to be associated with foreign currency, as defined in Article 6. The bill to consumers who cannot resist payment will be prohibited. These changes are aimed at ensuring that consumers have the means to repay the loan. Thus, it is based on the fact that loans related to foreign currency will be allowed to be passed on to consumers if credit estimates reveal that they have sufficient income in the currency associated with the loan to cover the loan's payment or that they will resist payments for significant improvements and significant increases in interest of interest or maintenance of payment, and they will provide appropriate financial guarantees that will spend their financial risks on loans during the loan period. It is recommended that consumers be forbidden to lend loans that are targeted on stock science, such as Article 2. the bill, as it is not always possible for consumers to defend themselves from such risks. The route taken in this bill is the fact that the consumer's sources should not be longer limited to borrowing loans associated with foreign currency than is necessary. However, it is suggested in Article 3. The bill that Iceland's Shared Bank will be permitted, in terms of financial status and the exception of a show in financial arena, to set credit institutions for maximal loans related to foreign currency to non-employment centres. At the same time, it is assumed that the Councilman could set rules regarding acceptable insurance and the length of borrowed time. The purpose of such rules is to limit loans to persons other than loans, which are not protected from currency risks and prevent such loans from creating systematic risks in the financial system and the threat of financial stability. It is assumed that the arrangement will be carried out only if necessary. If the bill is the law, loans related to foreign currency are expected to be within reasonable limits with regard to risks. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. to end this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u60	A respectable president. It's like the highest. The minister said that we also have a pay check on foreign loans, which involves changing payment on the bill we discussed earlier. These laws need to be passed because ESAs have said that there is no ban on success insurance in the country. Now, it is suggested that those who earn money in foreign currency or otherwise can guarantee that they may gain success loans or foreign loans at a much lower rate than the rest of us. A respectable president. The ruined currency crystals in this bill and causes two nations to be in this country, on the one hand those who can rely on foreign income - we know that some companies even end up in foreign currency - and that they can borrow less than anyone else. People say, "We want to have an unconvinced interest here, and we want to offer them 7% interest. " Who can live up to that? A respectable president. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Does this not simply mean that this will be the land of two nations, of those who may have a foreign currency, and of those of us with the Icelandic crown?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u61	A respectable president. In the bill I recommend here, we're dealing with two things. We are dealing with the fact that ESAs have said: It is not possible in Icelandic legislation to ban and to have a strict ban on the health insurance of Icelandic crowns. Then we will respond to what is shown in the bill by saying: "Good and good, let us not be undisputed, but we will not allow such a loan unless we meet with the strict conditions found in the bill. On the other hand, while there is a wide open view of foreign loans to consumers, moving laws on the success of loans seems unnatural. That's the law today. The choice we have to face regarding foreign loans is to draw some similarity between the rules for the luck insurance of loans and the rules of foreign loans to consumers. It's done with this bill. Of course, we could choose a choice that I feel is a good reason for. A senator makes it evident, not to interfere with our foreign loans, and to have the arrangement unchanged, and grudging consumers to attend such loans in general, but to form other views, such as the national response policy of how dangerous it can be for the entire population if there are much commitments in the foreign currency that do not fit in the system and can lead to a sudden assault on our own currency. That's what we're dealing with here. [[The president calls.]] I believe we're making a wise transition in finding a solution to these issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u62	A respectable president. I'm going to get some details on the Economic and Business Committee, but I think it's a vivid example of how the currency doesn't work. We don't have the equipment to protect him. They say that this is not to be done too loud, so it is not just to say: You should have foreign income to pay back in foreign income! - but it can include national goals. I think it's most crystal in this case that we can't handle this little sick, unstalled, unstalled buck. That is what we have to deal with so that the people of the land will have the same loan. We're saying that those who can somehow prove that they can pay back foreign loans or guarantee that they can repay success insurance should be able to borrow foreign loans that may be at 1.5% interest or something like that while meeting the country's population to pay 7% interest. This is the greatest inexorable. It's injustice. These matters need to be viewed with that view, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u63	A respectable president. Injustice, if injustice can be called injustice, is expressed in different stages of growth, and therefore I am always so focused on setting things in such a way that we can contribute to the lower interest of the Icelandic crown. There are still many things that are missing, as a recent piece of bargaining shows, as I know. Let us not forget that taking a foreign loan is not just an advantage. Recent examples show that foreign loans to undefeated persons can pose a tremendous risk. Those who survived the worst financial disaster were those who had foreign loans that they could never correct. There are a number of consumers in this country who have not yet received any reform because of their foreign loans. True, all of this looked fine while the person enjoyed the low interest level, whether in Japanese or Swiss francs or in whatever currency it might have been, but when the gang changes happened and the person was undefeated, it became one of them all. So we cannot take up a discussion on the possibility of taking a foreign loan without taking into account the risks that may be associated with some consumers who are unwarranted. Then there's the other thing that I specifically mentioned in my previous answer: This bill considers the cumulative risks that may involve large borrowings for the entire financial system.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u64	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of the story. In view of what happened, I would like to ask a simple question. paritaprevir It's Valgerður Bjarnadóttir. Is there any diagnosis of how many people earn money in foreign currency in Icelandic society? How large is it that a group of people are likely to resist paying money on foreign loans? In fact, I think it is necessary to provide data for us senators to discuss the rules they are talking about setting up here on the well-being of successful loans or loans associated with foreign currency. This article discusses non-employers of currency risk and thus does not have income in foreign currency. Is there any information on the size of a group?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u65	A respectable president. No, I don't have access to that information, and in itself the bill remains relatively neutral. These are mainly consumers' reasons and, on the other hand, how we best protect the financial system from major traumas as well as the money policy on precautions. We face two kinds of situations and are dealt with both in this bill. On one hand, what are we going to do when ESA says: "You can't have no rule against the Icelandic policy? Here, however, it is responded by means of a certain arrangement. However, we are faced with the question that if we have a regular work on gang insurance loans to meet ESA comments, are we going to let authority take foreign loans just stand still? So that it is open to consumers to borrow foreign loans and even to create a systematic risk that does not have a special interest in borrowing, whether home or anyone else? Do you agree with one another to have strong opinions about when you can have successes but let it be light - weightd, though, how you will develop in foreign loans? There's no answer in the bill. Actually, this bill involves the answer not to have a strict requirement for expansive loans but to no demands on foreign loans. Hence, trying to make sure that such loans are not provided unless the person has passed the payment rate or is able to face a considerable number of challenges. And it goes further, and it is provided with permission to screw the screws even harder if it seems to be a system hazard. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u66	Mr. President. I hear what's at the highest. The minister of finance is about to go and in itself agree that it is normal to watch a successful loan or a foreign loan similarly. However, I believe there will be a question of how large a group is that might have access to these loans in view of what has been reported. paritaprevir Bjarnadóttir said earlier. She expressed her concern that this was a system where a group of people had a position above others for special loans. Or the highest. For example, in view of the national risk they can offer, a minister may suggest that the weight of these loans in such a way be very low on the basis of such loans? I think it's at least A question we need to consider on the Economic and Business Committee. V.E.G. A minister here revealed that he had no overview or evidence of how much the nation had income in foreign currency, but it is still interesting and good to have such data under consideration on this bill so that we can look at it not only from the viewpoints of financial status, which are important, but also from public and borrowers' views of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u67	A respectable president. Actually, I don't think it's quite that complicated. I suspect that those who are seeking to borrow foreign funds in the financial system today, where law is not very critical, need to show that they really have the ability to repay, that the banks learned from the events of the past few years that it does not pay to have unopposed access to foreign loans even if they pass a credit evaluation on the Icelandic scale of such borrowing. I still reiterate what I mentioned earlier about the potential risks of taking loans and being exposed at the same time. The banks themselves suffered financial evasion for such a position as well as a number of their customers. However, it may be informative to get information about how much the population will receive pay in foreign currency. I think it's only a very small fraction. But let us not forget that this is not the only requirement for borrowing money in a foreign currency. It is also possible to meet the requirements of such loans according to the bill by showing that you can withstand a substantial degree of eco-efficiency or a large rise in interest, as well as if other acceptable guarantees are provided. I myself believe that we should begin with the princely burden that people should be allowed to rule themselves. But then we need to examine national economic guidelines, what we need to do in order to protect the overall interests. It can be said that the devices hidden from the UNECE and the Federal Bank of these two primarys are of their kind, and as are other barriers to the bill itself, which are fixed in the law. Then we need to look to consumers' reasons, to be careful about good information and careful loans. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u68	A respectable president. I come up here to recall that at the last council, this was a similar case, and I got a lot of discussion about whether it would be safe to open an unsurpassed loan according to this. I agree with the objective of this bill to respond to the EFTA indicator that the prohibition does not agree with the EEA Convention's free capital flow principle. So we need to fail and eliminate the utter ban on gang insurance loans and, at the same time, use the opportunity to respond to the fact that there may not be enough rules here to provide the currency that has been permitted and slightly consistent in allowing currency to be paid but then forbidding a dreary loan. In nature, the risk is similar, at least for the borrower, for the borrower who has neither income nor property in a foreign currency to borrow in a foreign currency and a gangstad loan, a similar risk. What's changed, and it's important to me in II. section of the bill, i.e. the change in the law on the National Bank of Iceland, where Iceland's Federal Bank is obtained from a source of permission to set maximum credit laws on loans related to foreign currency to non-payers' risk. It is very important that this be interpreted so that the zebra can immediately adopt such rules, but it does not have to wait until the problem has become out of control. Review, as indicated by the report, that by the end of September 2008, individuals associated with foreign currency were reported to be 320 billion or 17% of the overall debt of individuals, and communities were also taking a lot of unscheduled loans in foreign currency or linked to foreign currency. What happens when the U.S. dollar falls, which can happen and has happened, is that these loans can be very devastating, so it is important to cover the well before falling into it. In the section facing the consumer loans, it's 8 p.m. The bill, they suggest a new 10th paragraph. a that comes after 10th paragraph. The law. It provides a number of conditions for the payment of mortgages related to foreign currency: A creditor should only lend loans related to foreign currency to consumers who have sufficient income in the currency associated with the loan in order to meet the payment rate. This is a normal situation and should not pose a great danger. Then comes the "B" team: Or has passed payoffs in kronos where significant changes are expected and significant increases in interest. The problem with this law is that it opens unscheduled borrowing in itself. It is of great importance that financial institutions and the Councilman adjust things so that the real cost of taking such a loan comes from the borrower rather than from the community. There should be ways because otherwise a certain group of people who take advantage of this and may want to run away from the operating growths of the ground, a well - chosen group that could resist such payment because they have made a lot of money in crowns or dollars, would be tempted to take a high risk to grow older. First, it undermines the sharing of money, which others would also have influenced this group. This may mean that the quality of the steering growth needs to be higher on the remaining ones and that it has not had the opportunity to take such a loan. Then there's a time when the Secret Bank says it's too much now, there's too many billions, and then there's a group that's been first coming, and then they're in position other than the others. There's some discrimination in this. It has been noted that there may be discrimination in the general population according to income and status. Regarding the c- team, it requires that men provide an appropriate financial guarantee that will completely eliminate the currency risk, and that is quite acceptable. It's mainly the b- team that opens to uncharacterized borrowing and I don't think that ESAs are required to be unregistered. ESAs merely say that the utter ban is to be taken away. We are, therefore, in good stead, to set rules that are reasonable, and it may be a reasonable rule to allow them to be granted to all those who have true income, possessions, or both. Then it can be quite natural in itself. What then is missing and needs to be discussed is what happens if, for example, someone who had enough money in that currency gets involved in losing that income and is no longer protected, all of a sudden became vulnerable but owes a lot of money and has a loan related to a currency. Then there must be some way out. The way out may simply be that if the person is no longer able to make a payment, he will be able to pay off his loan at the time it becomes clear. Those who speak against say that they would be loaned because the financial agency would want to secure themselves against this, but that's actually because it makes sense, the loan is actually going to pay the cost of borrowing a foreign currency. Many things are yet to be considered. Regarding the implementation of these laws, it is suggested that they take effect, but it is clear that the law we were discussing earlier on mortgages is comparable to that of 21 g. The law of the law, if I recall correctly, about how to handle it, is actually about how to deal with situations that change and get out of position, may have come into an undisputed position. There's something that we on the Economic and Business Committee need to take a very careful look at. I didn't mean to extend this discussion very much. The committee will discuss this subject and receive a detailed presentation and many reviews, and I expect we will take a good time to look into it. Although ESAs are still running behind me, I don't think that it's too bad that the council can't do good work on the case. I think there's got to be an understanding that we need to be sure that when we start to open up on these gangstas' loans again and make them legal, we really need to be careful. [[Up front.]] We need to make sure that, first of all, we do not build up a system problem that increases the risk in the system, that there is no discrimination, and that we will react to the changes in their status that were then considered to be a lender, and many more things we need to consider.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u69	A respectable president. I thank the senator for his speech. I think there is good reason for this and for the committee to consider the issues related to the success of the loans that were extremely unhappy for us here in the collapse. I wanted the senator to see that, because this is opening up the growing and insurance laws, which are exactly a law group which the Agency's been thinking, whether this group doesn't have the ideal opportunity to bring in the legal proposals that the class has spoken for and declared, and, in fact, promised, abduction of insurance. This is exactly the law code where insurance is written in. If you want to write it out of the Icelandic Law Museum, this law is it, and the expected changes made here prior to 2nd. about the bill, which could limit the insurance policy or ban it for the future, or what it is now that the advance group intends to do in this largest campaign for their last election. I simply ask: Will the senator use this opportunity now, when the legislation is open and he is in control of the situation here at the council as the head of the committee, in order to set in this matter the rules that prohibit insurance on loans to individuals?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u70	A respectable president. I'd like to answer that question. A senator by being one of the single spokesmen of the policy not only to be detracted but to disassociate insurance on new loans and thus to encourage borrowers and loanrs to benefit from turning older ones into irresponsible loans, I have offered many reasons for this. Whether this is the opportunity to take on such drastic measures immediately and in this partnership that we are in the greater part - I don't think. I think I'm going to work faithfully on this case and do it in a professional and tricky way, which is being suggested here. Secretary of finance, however, has stated that work is being done at the Ministry to take the proposed steps, and I think there is solidarity. I think we'll wait and see how it works. The person standing here will try to get the best of the above - mentioned issues, and the changes that are being made will be well implemented.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u71	A respectable president. I must express my frustration with words. Senator. Whether to do this right away, the senator asks. It's been two and a half years of the season, there's nothing yet. Either the advance party intends to cover some changes in insurance. If that doesn't show up now, when you're opening up the interest and insurance bill, then it's obvious that the forward category is not going to cover any insurance during this terms. And he promised it for the election on this terms, not for the next election period or for the rest of the term. This is an opportunity for the senators of the Future Party, for it is not the Independence Party that can prevent the transfer of a new proposal to this bill of finance, if it is the intention of candidates to fulfill this campaign program during this ideal period. But if it was never intended to eliminate insurance, if those promises were just issued to the air for this election period, and candidates are even going to be mocked by the secretary of finance so that he did not have in two and a half years, I could cut off the time of selling money from 40 years to 25 years just as he has, apparently, by making the forwardness of some kind of impression to meet them in the case, I would have to ask the question. A senator: Is he not going to handle it at least? It has been a year and a half since the decision of a committee of prime ministers was to do so. There have been repeated announcements that the bill was on its way through it. Don't you think they'll bring it here in election winter? It is clear that at that brief assembly there will be no law. It's either now or not, a respectable senator. Is it not, then, that the longer loans should be banned, as the advance party has emphasized so much, whether good or bad?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u72	A respectable president. I can see why. A senator has missed a meeting as we discuss this matter, and I don't know where to direct the answer if he has left the Senate Hall. I thank him for the question, and I thank him for the care he shows the advance party to make sure that we follow our campaign post; and of course we will. [[Up front.]] Yeah, we appreciate that. It's mutual.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u73	I can move the new proposal for you.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-02-45.u74	Yes, thank you for that. Then I'll know what to vote for. a inquirer will fall into that vote. He supports the removal of the insurance policy, and hopefully immediately and quickly. I thank you for that support. It's good to know. I can make you happy. The head starter is now holding two very important election promises, and it's not our game to stop reelecting now. But all works need to be handled successfully. We accepted the correction, took advantage of these suggestions on delinquency, and we are also going to be careful to cancel the insurance here.
