ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u1	Mr. President. I imagine all of us at council are concerned about the development that can distinguish us from the move, i.e. those who move from the land to those who move to the land. There are signs that young people are choosing to leave the country. This was recorded in an espionage class yesterday, and it's certainly true that young people would get an education and experience for the landstones, but we who are in different categories at council must strive for Iceland to remain an attractive place to live in for our young people, for our future people. At the national meeting of the left movement, a green supply was adopted a policy in the affairs of young people who are targeted at this position. I'd like to wonder. Senators don't agree with me that it's long time to revise the law on the Icelandic Board of Education. It's been at the U.S. Senate. A minister of education since the start of the government, but no one has been heard or seen to that review, nothing. It's a birthed ordinary treasure. The last government had made a decision to extend the birthworm, but it was returned as much as the last government did, more injuringly than anything else, and assigned a group on December 5, 2014, which was supposed to make a policy for the birth certificate. This is one of the most important matters for young people that they can experience security when they want to have a family. But this group has not survived. We received reports in September that the roof could be raised. There is no suggestion, either to the 1st or to the 2nd. Money on these matters. What about the housing, Mr. President? That's the other one. People want to study. People want to have children and live a decent life. People want to get a roof over their heads. But the housing matters, they're not in the mood yet, Mr. President. The issues that should be the priority of all classes at the General Assembly in how we are going to build up our community after a difficult year so that young people will choose Iceland to live, they are not on the government program. [[The president calls.]] I challenge it. Parliamentaries putting them on schedule. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u2	A respectable president. It is of good reason for the Icelandic government to consider if even temporary border control is not necessary. The Schengen Convention expects Member States to do this, and in view of the terrorism in Paris, it would simply be irresponsible not to check whether the need to temporarily contribute to this category so that the safety of the citizens is better assured. Already 38 million is expected. K. A further advance to the police border at Keflavík, but I don't think that'll do it. I'm a member of the Schengen team, but the cooperation is like a chain. If one of the links breaks, the chain is unusable, even ruined. I call attention to the front cover of the morning newspaper this morning, which quotes an article by the former head of Interpol, New York Times, which encourages all the state of the Schengen area to compare all passports to the Interpol database. Thus, in an effort to cross their borders on invalid conditions, the British outside Schengen were caught by 10,000 people a year. The former chairman of Interpol says that the Schengen organization presented a real and sustained danger. To do nothing in the belief that something in this area calls for increased management is not just childish, but quite dangerous. This is not about receiving everyone with hugs and kisses; it is about the security of those living and staying in this country. Therefore, let us seriously consider the need to expand our surveillance, increase the number of those caring for it, and provide sufficient funds for the seminary. At the same time, it would be good to know how real surveillance is being done in Keflavík. For example, how many passports are compared with Interpol's system? And how easy is it to go through fake passports? Answers wish.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u3	A respectable president. I'd like to make up the subject of the office of the Constitution and the work of the Committee of all classes on the change in constitution. A few months have passed without the committee's reaching a conclusion that has been left in the air. Government leaders have made public declarations that they really want to finish this assignment but then draw out the hope of the commission. This is a very serious situation because we need to make fundamental changes in the constitution. We in the United States have reached this task with the main objective of ensuring two aspects of this process: the right of the public to bring a case to him in national and national resources. That is our primary objective. It is impossible to agree that the members of the administrations of other categories and people will respond to whether they are ready to accept, in effect, the rights of the nation in this respect. If what controls the slowness of the government officials is their concern that national justice is being carried out along with our Presidential elections, it is proper to say it simply out, and then they should suggest a different date. However, such an important factor cannot be avoided from the nation. In Icelandic society, there is a fundamental need for a change in the rules of the game, for the nation to be given increased authority to bring a case into the national law and to receive a proper provision for resource possession accepted in the Constitution. The board of directors is risking this problem to the fore by not finishing it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u4	V.E.G. President. I'm going to make it a subject of the money of the elderly and the desperate, and put it in touch with the collective market agreements, which are most of them at the end. I remind them that at the beginning of this hearing, we members of the Conspiracy moved immediately to the beginning of this legal hearing that the elderly and the desperate should receive their payment and that their increases are going back and forth, just like everyone else. I find it intolerable, a respectable president, and then explained with logic the following, that a few months fall with this group of people, and I don't think it can be done. Of course, they should get their compensations, as do depositers in the country, even if there are different dates in it as we know it. That is why I urge government officials to take this case and look at it with fair eyes and fight that this will be done with the budget proposals now. I say in the second place, of course, the government's going to have to move changes in budgets for 2015 with this rise inside. It has to happen. Recently, the Council of State concluded, stating: The main lines of agreements have been set up, and they have become clear, and therefore the Council of Cabinet could take their case and ruled by law for the President of Iceland, Minister, General Assemblymen, judges, heads of state, as per law. There the advice goes to find that these groups are being paid backwards. True, it's debated why it's March 1st, but not May 1, I'll let it lie between parts. Therefore, a respectable president, I say: All those in this hall, generals who are expected to offer proposals for funding and budgets, are expected to have a proper view of ourselves, in that we will let these social groups, the elderly and the desperate, be restored also. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u5	A respectable president. Yesterday, the budgetary committees received changes in the government's proposals for the budget bill and the budget bill, and as often as these are, tensions are in the air when adjustments are made because there are some things that are added. The financial bill does not appear to be ready when it is proposed in the fall, since much changes are then made. What we have is that we have data printed into our hands. There is no confidence in that record, yet it is not public. We are the responders to the media, who would like us to take pictures of these documents, or wedgets, or photocopies, and come to them. I don't think this situation is acceptable. At the same time, the chairman of the budget board is informing what is in these changes made on his Facebook page. No doubt I could have done the same. I didn't feel that it was my job to give the press information and direct the media at the General, but they don't exist electronically. I'd like for these changes to be done. Either this information is confidential and that's how it is, or it's official, and then everybody should have access to it at the same time. I saw in the media that some had caught up with someone, or whatever it is, and published information while others were chasing people like me who didn't know if I could give up or not. I didn't feel that it was my job either. So I'd like to see if this is going to happen. I don't know who's to blame, whether it's the head of the Committee or the highest. The President, the head of the Generals. But this is not acceptable. When there's a third-pass motion. I'll have to figure it out. These data should be electronic and available at a specific time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u6	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Hauksdóttir Hauksdotttóttir took a big shot at night news in VOLV yesterday about the financial status of the Land Hospital when she said, with the permission of a president: "This is now a pretty good place, considering what the hospital had been shredded to the last term. Hv. A senator trusts in the short-term memory of voters, which has been more often than useful to the advance team. In the autumn of 2008, after the collapse, the land hospital had no money for employees or drugs, and it had gone bankrupt. So, with the permission of the President, Hulda Gunnlaugsdóttir, former director of the Land Hospital, describes the situation at the hospital in the fall of 2008. It was after the years of the forwarding phase and the independence party in so - called good - bye when the Landsaholic was driven down to the limit of famine. It was the swelling colony of many years of starving present - day government classes that faced the devastating consequences of the collapse that the Landskeeper had to face as much as other social institutions had to deal with. At that time, the hospital had a body of 3 billion people. [[Up front.]] With the unselfish and concerted efforts of the Land Hospital staff, government officials were able to work at the problem slowly and bite, taking into account that if the land's economy improved, the National Hospital would enjoy it. Now we look at the 22 billion remainder of a government fund, but Páll Matthíasson, director of the Land Hospital, says of the budget that it was not just money to attend the hospital but also to direct the business. What's going on? It is cold greetings that the chairman of a financial committee sends medical personnel to the Land Hospital, who have waited for the hospital's interests to be improved for unselfish work. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But now everything is being driven back to personalization. Picked up the cable from the former expansive and independent party of the health system.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u7	A respectable president. I'd like to remember that now that we've been through two years since the Euroshidan Square Convention in Kiev, Ukraine, and I'd like to connect it to us here in Iceland, who have done a great job for us and I'd like to make the most of it. Minister of foreign affairs how well he has been doing in this regard is behind the sovereignty of Ukraine in these disputes all. At present and after the attacks in Paris, more and more voices are heard that Iceland should shut down and stop being part of the earth, although it is now scientific proof that we are part of the earth and part of the international community. I would like to point out that although Iceland is small, we have often been able to use ourselves for the benefit of open, liberal, progressive society not only on our small island but also on other parts of the earth. It is minimal to remember that by February of the following year 25 years after Iceland was first a country to accept the independence of the Baltic States, an example of how a small nation can exercise itself. Iceland's supposed to be on the lead of voices fighting for freedom and democracy in the world. The way we have treated Ukraine serves as a reminder of this. We are also required to do what we can to add to the scales when it comes to the bigger problems, and I am especially concerned about refugees'problems. We should not be unduly concerned about the security and hysteria that we enjoy in the Western world, although we are to be safe as we can. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u8	V.E.G. President. I would like to make a comment on the results of a recent report, which was prepared by the University of Bisfröst, on home residence in Reykjavík. It turns out that by 2009, there were about 200 apartments in the capital area belonging to a so - called shared economy that was offered an apartment application, which by 2014 they had become 1,100, i.e. A 450% increase in five years. What is particularly disturbing in this context is that only 13% of these apartments are recorded and have the right to be rented out to tourists. Now this is the subject I've discussed that I'm holding three ministers from two councilors and asking each one of their seats. Yes, it is true that during the past few months, a bill appeared that included part of this problem, but it was not well performed and therefore was not successful. That doesn't make any difference because we shouldn't wait to monitor this operation until there's some bills I'd like to say fit the legislation to the Three Laws. We're not supposed to. We're supposed to maintain surveillance, and we're supposed to bring out the person who rents apartments without having permission. This is naturally the result of a few days ago of tax fraud in Iceland alone of 80 billion a year. So there are some slaves out here who make of us one land hospital every year as a tax fraud. These are natural conditions for investing in the government tax office and the tax research director's office, which do not seem to be in accordance with the current financial bill but 2rd. is starting, we can still fix this, because I don't think we can spend any more money than we can in order to prevent this kind of operation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u9	Mr. President. As the work continues, it begins to take about 2nd. on the 2016 budget. All classes, and most members of Congress are likely to be eager to see if and then what changes should be made between discussions and such shapes of the community we live in here. The 2016 budget announces that the pensions of social security will increase by 9.4% from January 1, 2016, not from spring to spring, as in the general labour market, and by other sources. The Environmental Association of Iceland has stated that in recent years the ideal pensioners have deteriorated and that the pay gap between pensioners and wage candidates has increased dramatically. It is common for people who only have a pension from the government's insurance agency for alimony to have between 170 and 190 you. K. A new Gallup survey shows that more than 90% of the population say they can't survive so low alimony. The same study also shows that 95% of the population believe that pensioners should have an increase of as high or higher than the lowest paid. But you, what? Senators, do you believe that you can live in the amount of money that microenergy pensioners have? Those who do not think they can do so must come along in a way to change the budget for the next year. The challenge for members of Parliament who were approved at a large meeting of IBI on Saturday is a good starting point for that work. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u10	President. I agree with the speaker who was before me. I think it is very important that we do not allow these festivals to be marked by fear, anxiety, and suffering. It doesn't have to be like that. I just wanted to go into a little private and see the state of the council. I wanted to determine if the bill that is on the front and is still open and discussed and has not been scheduled, a bill on a store of alcohol and tobacco, prevented other members of Congress from being scheduled. If so, I want this case, a business with alcohol and tobacco, to be finished, and therefore called to be handled with very important matters that are solely interested in and complete here at Congress like reasonable compensation for Landkots School, that is a matter of monotonity in the council to complete, a contract made by the United Nations on the rights of disabled people, at the highest level. There is an internal minister, and then validation of a United Nations contract against torture. I would like to draw attention to the fact that there have been only three cases approved at this council. 58 cases are waiting for 1st. There are 24 cases on the committee. Five cases are waiting for 2nd. and three cases are waiting for the 3rd. We have very little work to do. We could do so much more if there were not all manner of tactics to prevent such a fine and important matter from being paid full. I challenge senators to pressure the president that we change this terrible tradition.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u11	The president would like to inform us that at a meeting of the council groups, a decision was made that members of Congress would have the opportunity to set up on the Council case as they themselves chose. Everything's been going along. There are three categories of priorities available from members of the Parliament, three lengths as normal. Now we are at the end of the third length, i.e. There's two things left, a case like that. A senator turned aside from a senator of the forward party. It is clear that the extensive discussion that I recall lasted 14 or 15 hours has made it impossible for other matters to come. Of course, the president would welcome it if more senators could be paid to bring.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u12	A respectable president. We generals are the advice of the elderly and the desperate. Now that the Council of Men and the State's high officials have decided to reinvigorate us, it stands up to us, to give financial support, to ensure those under us, the elderly and the microplirts, the reinvigorates. It cannot be concluded that after the difficult times, especially the poorest ones, have had to go through the past few years, all the major groups in the country are adjusted back in time at the expense of a government fund, but the least ones of them are not able to receive repetitive correction. It is so shouting unreasonable that I cannot believe but can have a parapolitic attitude at the council to secure the elderly and micropiercing benefits again from the same time as other people in the country. It's the least I can do. Of course, it is by itself that these same groups have the same minimum wage, as for other groups in the country, that this group also submits to the requirement of about 300 you. K. Minimum wage and dresser improvement accordingly. However, in order to make significant changes in the existing budget bill, such as us, the Group of Congress, have suggested, and I believe that there is support in all members of the council here at the council, even though the chairman has not brought it up yet.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u13	V.E.G. President. ON THE news last night, half the world's population in the Skaft River Jellows was found to be desolated or not in agriculture. Apparently, there is no overall vision of the government in rebuilding the state's roof when they leave the apartment. It has to be changed. In a conversation with a U.S. news agency, an officer in the dump says by permission of a president: ▪ It is depressing for small families to survive the destruction of one planet by one another. The country and children are down in school. The society will suffer. People want to come and live here in the country, but they don't seem to have any way of getting these ground. The earth is not advertised until those who have taken all stock and sold all the machines. Then the government's roads have often been taken back to the earth from a road record, taking over part of the State's land, and preferably all other benets. Mr. President. The problem seems to involve the number of agencies involved. Governments are covered by government funds, by the Department of Economic Affairs, by the Aggression Department, by the State Department of State's Road and by the State Department of the Environment. V.E.G. President. The author of this convention proposed a pactary proposal for the use of land in the possession of the estate at the last council and again during the current council. It suggests that the General Assembly hides financial and economic secretary to look for any means of destabilizing or ousting land in the use of government owners and paying for international exchanges on the state of the world. I hope the proposal gets on the schedule as soon as possible and join with what. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir's offer that it is time for us to pay for something very important and good that has not yet arrived, and that is a sin. It is also tragic that good farms are not in an apartment because they do not communicate and take no time to shape a vision of the future. It has to change.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u14	Mr. President. Rarely is there a good reference too often, standing somewhere, and I'm going to continue talking about the issues of older citizens and desperate people I started yesterday in an unprepared inquiry to prime minister. That's what I'll do after I've had a meeting on Saturday at the United States Council of the Grand Hotel, where these matters were discussed and how they stand among the people. I also mentioned in my speech yesterday's talk the grandest. On Saturday, the prime minister at a mid - management meeting of the Specialist Party in Vonar, Water placebo Beach, where he listed the fine situation in Iceland. In itself, there are many things that he said, things have been achieved. Here's baloney economy growth, unemployment decline, and inflation has never been as good. His speech contained that everything in here was in blossom. I feel that such talk sounds hollow, despite the fact that much could be true in it, as I said. However, it sounds like a hole to me if we are going to leave another group of disability and older citizens behind. It says, among other things, in the Declaration of Policy, that the government will last but not least eliminate the decrease that has been placed on the income and capital gains of the elderly. That was one of them. And that we were going to build a family society in which all would have equal opportunities and in particular care for those in need. I believe today's Icelandic state-wide board was to meet the demands of senior citizens and disability and the conclusions adopted at Saturday's meeting, and I listed here yesterday. I don't believe we'll handle this. V.E.G. In his later reply yesterday, the prime minister said that he hoped that he might become as closely cooperated as possible in the Senate between the government and a position of government at the work of the branch committee. I believe that he means that we deal with this problem once and for all and give these groups the gift of Christmas that they are equal to the rest of us in the community. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u15	A respectable president. I find the opportunity to point out that when police call for increased authority and more guns, this does not contradict police independent surveillance. When border surveillance is tightened, it does not contradict treating people well, nor does it contradict adding authority to allow people to enter the country. I am deeply concerned about the language I find in the community, which is that empathy and understanding, in general, seems to be a bit naive. A talk earlier filled me with that fear once again. There is a good documentary entitled The Food of War, about a man named Robert Mcnamara, a highly experienced man who served as secretary of the United States Defense during the Cold War. The picture covers 11 of this man's lifexieties. The first rule is: Have fellow feeling for the enemy. This is because we need to understand how the enemy thinks. We need to know where his interests are, what he can live or what he cannot do, how he responds to what he does and what he does. To respond to the threat of terrorism in some kind of angry impulse is dangerous childishity, a respectable president, especially if you look at history's lesson. The police may now need more weapons, but they also need independent supervision. The border control may have to be tightened, but we also need to understand the root of the problem. It is not that we are not hard enough or strong enough to be at war. The problem is not there, it lies elsewhere, and it is our responsibility if we are to call ourselves mature people to understand the problem we are trying to solve.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u16	A respectable president. I have a rather short job experience at the General Assembly. One has marked all three months of my life, and that is an endless state of chaos and disorganization. We never know what the program is. We never know what to read at home. You can never get a two - week plan, a three - week plan, anything to prepare properly. There are also some reports that we have had to sit up to discuss reports that we have not even received. I think it's a very strange way of doing things over my head. The basic schools in the country wouldn't offer this. High school in America wouldn't offer this. The colleges in the country wouldn't offer this. I don't understand why the Allied Council of Iceland is offering itself a lack of order. There is no contradiction when it comes to how the program is conducted, who will be able to keep a special discussion or something about it, as it seems to be a secret rule that is hard to find out what is going to happen. This lack of organization and endless transparency is nothing more than an act of power. This is a way to prevent people from being able to prepare for action that is natural, especially on the memory, that we cannot handle matters as well. This total disorganization is a form of abuse of power and is to be corrected.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u17	V.E.G. President. First of all, thank you to the highest. Minister of state for responding promptly to a request for a special discussion on the police work environment. A few days ago, police officers readily agreed to a new bargain. I'm happy to agree with the agreement, but I believe the agreement on the contract and its results has revealed the serious and serious issues of police living on account of their work and employment. Thus, when negotiations are completed, it is urgent to consider other aspects of the work and the situation of the police as much as possible. In a way, we've said "A" with contracts and presumptions for the advanced education of the class. The first thing to say is the human resources of the police, equipment, authority, and research warrants. There is an unpleasant situation for everyone that the number of police on duty has decreased by more than 80 between 2007 and 2011 as the number of people in the country increased by 40 thousand, the driving vehicles on the roads of the country by 49%, and the number of driving miles of police cars by 35% at the same time, the number of tourists each year by hundreds of thousands. Travelers are creating pressures throughout the country, and they need to be safe in many places where they travel with rental cars as never before, as well as how difficult it is for police officers to welcome the number of people who find their way around the country with cruise boats. Clearly, a reduction in the number of police officers has diminished the service of citizens of the country and visitors. The reduction has also resulted in a much greater strain on the officers who are still working, and this situation has led to their increased illness and increased number of work accidents, as well as the lower safety of police officers because they are often alone. It is true that entire territories are now without law, such as the Dalai. It may also be noted that during the greatest financial expenditure to the police, part of the collection of the police force in the capital area was due to the situation created in 2009 when the police stood up to this house and those in this room. It is painful to know that this has not yet been corrected. The 500 million added to the suit after the government's arrival, including the U.S. ... withtheofficeoftheProgressory,be very helpful. In fact, the 400 million now being proclaimed, and I didn't know when I asked for this discussion, but I'm better off if it's all right. They may give us less than half a way. So my hope and prayer are that my party will still be added, for much is at stake. I've been discussing services with the people and guests before, but it's clear that a major force needs a border patrol, even taking up a border check like the Schengen convention warrants. Not to be overlooked is the part of customs, since a dramatic decrease has occurred at the same time when passengers are increasing by hundreds of thousands. There's a $150,200 million missing right away at the Cheflavour Airport and the Sufjörður, which will hopefully be turned into budgets for treatment today. My name is for everyone to make that necessary change a reality. There are various factions of crime that have been noted because police have not been able to reach them, such as man traders, domestic violence projects, and studies of sexual crime seem less effective than necessary. There is also a lack of increased authority to the police for telecommunications and premeditated research. I can't imagine a time when a thief can get away with a break because of some imaginary fear that police authorities' further research will somehow take advantage of the citizens. Above all, there is safety equipment. It was reported in a 2008 report by the former Minister of Internal Affairs that there is no shortage of equipment to address safety. There's armored, shielded, ammo, etc. Let us bear in mind that we Icelanders do not have an army. The police are the only ones between us citizens and criminals that have recently gone a long way in Europe. There is no reason to believe that Iceland and I are part of such terrible events. Europe is struggling with criminals who hide behind the faith they have nothing to do with and who engage in violence wherever they come and get the opportunity. We need to put such terrible events in place by any means available. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u18	V.E.G. President. I'd like to thank you for the opportunity to discuss this important matter here at the council Hall, but it's been my priorities and the government to promote law enforcement in the country, which we all know as a foundation in society. I have been very clear about this since I took over the office of the Minister of the Interior and will continue to do so. I stress and agree with it by reason. A senator that over time, it is necessary to increase the number of police officers and strengthen the work environment of the police. That is why we have this suggestion that there are 400 million. K. to be granted law enforcement, to get that legal hearing at the Committee and the Generals' sales, this is an adjustment in the budget on the 2nd issue. This extra funding is a step toward promoting law enforcement. These funds will be used both in the capital area and in other parts of the country. We know that the work of the police has increased dramatically, both in public law and in new projects. Of course, the vast flow of tourists has also added pressure to the police, so we must respond. It is very important that security be assured of the citizens of this country and of the visitors coming here. An analysis of the country's police services has shown weaknesses in the work that are urgent. One of them is the important role the police play in ensuring safety, as I mentioned. Another factor involves increasing transparency of police activities aimed at ensuring adequate service and security level. At the same time, the proposal is about 10 million. K. a donation to the increased cost of the land-saving disaster Union for tourism services, and I would like to draw up the importance of how important the rescue teams have been when it comes to the trade of tourists. Not to be overlooked are the vital aspects of their volunteer work, and we should be grateful for this. Then, in 2014, there were 500 million positive steps. K. was also used to promote law enforcement, and it has now become more permanent in the budget. It's important too. So it's a step in the right direction, but of course we know it's a long-term project. I just want to come in like a dog. A senator mentioned the police equipment. As you know, the principle is that Icelandic police officers are not armed with firearms in their day - to - day activities and are not available to change that arrangement, as is the case. However, the police have weapons. They're stored at police stations or in police vehicles at the police department's discretion. Under certain circumstances, police are authorized to weapons. There have been a set set of rules on the use of police and police force and the use of force tools and weapons, but they have now been made official as we know it, and I think it is important. Police law also legalizes the duties of policemen on the grounds of capital warrants and warrants and other factors. The use of power must never go further than is necessary at any time. The principle is fundamental, and it is vital that we be balanced in the handling of power. The police must always honor the moderate order in carrying out their duties. It is also very necessary to make clear that it is a state police officer who evaluates the need for each of his equipment and decides what kind of weapon the police is. The Marshal has thus been assigned to evaluate the needs of police for equipment, organization and training within the limits required by police. It is necessary to avoid forming by a minister or a Ministry to purchase weapons, provided that financial rights and purchases are in accordance with rules. The government's assessment of the police's need for equipment is based on a wide range of risk assessments that take into account the developments in the country and abroad and indicate likely future developments. How important it is that these arrangements be understood! V.E.G. President. The success of law enforcement is a long-term project. Already there have been steps, but more is needed. Therefore, I would particularly like to highlight the work being carried out by a law enforcement program where the big movie is being drawn up for a long time so that we can assess the need for money and organize the funds needed for the coming years and also the important work of the police. For the sake of my first speech, I cannot go further into law enforcement plans; I try to include it in my second speech; but I reiterate that this is a case of great importance to a state of trust, and loyalty is the means necessary to care for the work of law enforcement. [[The president calls.]] They're taking a step in that direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u19	A respectable president. In the past few weeks, we have often discussed the number of decreases in the ranks of police officers that have weighed the security of our nation and the severity of the situation in many lands in the general police police authorities and the ability to carry out their duties. It was bad to see how long an agreement with the police and to rejoice that it is finally over. It is important for the police to have adequate work conditions and to have perfect equipment as necessary. I'd like to, for the discussion of the arms use of the police and what has been discussed here in this case, commending the highest. Minister of the Interior, for publishing regulations on the use of force and police weapons regulations. It is very important for all of us that there is a transparency about these rules. The cover that has been around historically seen is for no one's benefit and, frankly, a serious danger to the security of the city. How important it is, too, under the circumstances that now exist in the Western world, do not stumble to conclusions. Nothing has been observed in the last few weeks to call for the general arms of police in Iceland. On the contrary, research now shows that the general arms use by police is a source of increased weapons among criminals, and then there can be a dangerous and frightening cycle. Therefore, I think the key message in this regard is to assess the dangers of resolve rather than over-establishing it and not to conclude that it is unproved. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u20	Mr. President. On the basis of equality, the rights of the citizens of the land must always be guaranteed wherever possible to serve as law enforcement officers and as safe as possible. Therefore, I believe that we are more than one member of the general police department who performs normal jobs, calls and general supervision, and at the same time improve the structure and training of those involved. To me, it is important that the police are visible, as far as anyone in the world, and that people really find that the police are there when they need it and respond quickly to people in need. I also find it important to be more supportive with the police school because we want to have people in this business, who have solid and professional foundations, so that they can identify among other things the effects of mental problems, drug abuse, etc. It is also important that training in practical training in a number of areas, such as in early action, population control, and other special police activities. Also, I do not reduce the importance of strengthening the role of the police involved in research work and shortening the time it takes to work and informing offenses. It has been noted that some equipment has grown old and is poorly equipped for research. That is unacceptable, and we must respond. Regardless of the issue involved, whether it is minor or more organized criminal cases that are becoming more and more involved in police work, the Society demands a rapid court treatment. Away from the discussion of police safety, it is clear that if the police engage in armed warfare, the criminals will do the same. It simply creates more dangerous and violent society rather than provides protection for its citizens. It is now suggested to set up a budget for the next year, after a preliminary assessment of the service and safety level required in each police situation and is well involved, but at the same time, it will not be easy to demand the police to reimburse a cumulative angle. About 82% of police funds go to pay. Each fully aware person sees that it does not work when 18% of budget is set aside for any other business to expect that the hook is also paid. A respectable president. The role of the police is to create social security through demonstrations and presence, short-time calls and professional occupations of well - trained police officers, and making good use of both the pay and the equipment of the police. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u21	A respectable president. I want to start by celebrating, for this conversation is not as I expected it to be, that it would be first given a discourse in which the tragic events that took place in Paris were tracered and had happened beyond the reach of others, and then called for the police to take in and expand all manner of premeditated research grounds and so forth, on the basis of those events, as tragic as they are. This conversation is not like that. It's important not to discuss these matters with law enforcement. I think it's important that this nation, like all other nations, make their own assessment of the threats facing them. There are many terrors against the citizens. Iceland is a very good example of a nation's unique threat. The wars of the Icelanders have been fought, not with other nations, but with the natural world, which has often been cruel and relentless. That's nice of the highest. An internal minister is an example of the rescue forces that are exactly a custom-made Icelandic solution based on voluntary work in this often and often incredibly difficult conflict. I feel that there is reason to learn from what is done and to look at other areas and to think: " How are we going to deal with all the threats that confront us, family violence, organized crime, terrorists, anything that could possibly happen to a nation? ' I feel that we should be guided by two things: we are going to be a peaceful society and live in peace and security. The law must always protect open and free society and must not work against it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u22	A respectable president. First, I want to say that it is important to make a good living for the police, especially when it comes to the labor and pay of the police, in my opinion. I'm sorry that police officers are badly rewarded. I view it as the same problem, and I often face the community when some other group of people experience a lack of understanding and a lack of appreciation for their circumstances, and then people react badly, often with very dire consequences, as we know. Therefore, it is important for employees such as the police to have an understanding of their circumstances and to experience appreciation for their large - scale sacrifices for their work. However, I can't help but mention that there is no police surveillance to count. Over 99% of wiretaps are approved in Iceland. There are many broken pots when it comes to police surveillance. This is not a argument against in itself adding the authority of the police. This is not a argument against the use of guns on the part of the police. This, however, is a prerequisite for this. If we are going to expand the authority and arms of the police, whether in daily activities or not, we have to have infrastructure that will ensure a democratic approach to the decisions that have, in fact, improved something a little recently but could improve much more. Also, there must be an independent surveillance that can be carried out on the complaints and indications that are not necessarily responsible for the criminal offense of policemen but simply for the way they behave, how they treat people, how they measure situations, etc. The greater power in the hands of a particular institution, the more important it is to maintain and counterweight. Icelanders are very poor at giving generally and equally impenetrable support. That is why we must first fix it before going beyond our authority and weapons. If that's the case, let's do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u23	A respectable president. I thank the advocate of this timely discussion. A discussion about the bad working conditions of the police has been loud lately, but, actually, it's not the first time. In fact, the social talk for decades has been a red thread. The need to improve the working conditions has often been necessary but rarely, or as necessary, as we do today. So it is a special joy to propose an additional budget to the lawsuit of some 400 million. K. the light of the day should be at the 2nd. The budget bill. The situation is very serious. Police officers on duty have greatly reduced their numbers, meaning that the safety of the city cannot be cared for. A recent report by the U.S. Marshal's Department says that the police in Iceland feel that they cannot help with the rise of organized crime in this country because of lack of financial resources and resources. It also states that the local police feel that they cannot maintain an acceptable level of security because of lack of funds. In 2006, ten years ago, an analysis of the human demand of the police was assumed to be some 900 people. According to a chief police officer, there are now some 640 police officers. What a sobering thought this is! The newspaper yesterday reported that the police were so badly equipped that their renewal depended on social services. The Icelandic police are the laughing stock of a foreign country, the same article. Often the police are criticized for coming up on a response as well as when it comes to individual research. It is easy to criticize, but more is involved in the search for reasons for the situation. Happily, people are becoming aware of the need for good law enforcement, but speaking is not enough. So this is an additional development of the administrative body introduced yesterday by the chairman of the budget committee, and the Minister of the Internal Affairs referred to the above cause of joy and evidence of continuing on in the same direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u24	A respectable president. First, I want to say here in the first place that we can conduct our daily lives the way we do it is that we can feel secure. It's all about the police being able to secure the safety of the citizens and in order to ensure that this is the case the appropriate safety guard, the human resources, the sources, and the training. This is not a matter of armed with regular police work, as many want to mean. Policemen don't want to be armed, and there's nothing to do with it. On the other hand, police want to feel secure by having access to the equipment needed to ensure safety and knowledge and to use it safely. It is the role of the police, and no one is better off than the police to appreciate what they need in order to do their job. The police know the circumstances and are informed to make the decisions needed. Of course, it is normal for police decisions to be reasoned and to be taken in a transparent way. Monitoring has also been made available in this context. The police are not afraid and are not opposed to surveillance. Rather, they rejoice in it, for it can show that it works professionally and counteracts the suspicions that some seem to harbor toward her. Let us just consider what has happened in this discussion today. The Police Department has published almost every year reports on the usefulness of the police, where the risk and weakness analysis of police ability has also been implemented. At that time, Minister of the Interior, Ögmundur, Jónasson, ordered a law enforcement program that made it necessary for the police to react more effectively. Also, funding has been used to care for it and so on. I just want to say that all of this happened before the disaster in Paris. So I believe the process was professional, the information was given and positive steps were taken, but better if possible. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u25	Mr. President. When discussing the equipment of the police and requesting that the police carry a weapon, there must be evidence and analysis that supports its need, and if these evidence is confidential, it is unacceptable to do anything other than be presented confidentially, at least of the General Information and Education Committee of the Generals. When calling for increased authority from the police, it is proper to warn against resorting to a person's personal rights, although specific circumstances may arise temporarily. Actually, I'm more concerned with the police service to the citizens of the country, a service that doesn't require arms or special authority that they don't already have. With the growth of tourists and police interference from them, e.g. As a result of death and accidents, there is a danger of safety in the population, since police officials have not increased in number. I asked the highest. Within the days, Minister of State, how many police problems associated with foreign tourists would have been each year in each police situation in 2005-◯2014. The answer is interesting and can be found on the Generals Web site. In the South, despite the pressures on the police around the country, police have increased to the longest. In answer to the highest. At the same time, the number of tourists'number of cases increased in almost every districts between 2012 and 2012,2015. In the South, for those with a foreign social security number 121 in 2012, there were 328 for the first eight months of this year. There must be an increase in the police force, for otherwise there is a risk that domestic violence and economic violence will not be properly handled, and the police'reserves will be limited for example, and the inhabitants of the country will suffer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u26	Mr. President. It is important that the country has been well - equipped with law enforcement. The fall of policemen in individual districts from 2007 is certainly a major concern, and it is important that the more money to be added to the seminars will benefit from the efforts of the police, with special attention to the national community in areas where police positions are widely subjugated. A report on the efforts of the police delivered to the then Minister of Internal Affairs in February 2013 contains three priorities. First, increase the number of general police officers responsible for calling and general police control. Second, to strengthen the specialized departments of the police in all areas. Third, improving police equipment and training. These are all the factors that need to be corrected. It is clear to everyone that the police office was facing a massive post - collapse operation, and it has been far removed. Therefore, it is urgent to make up for more money and look to the factors listed as priorities, such as the growth of the general law enforcement force. The threat of terrorism that appeared to us at present in the world, now last in Paris, with devastating murder of innocent people, cannot be followed by dramatic decisions, e.g. ... withtheenforcementofthepolitan police, such as by carrying a firearm. The police must be able to deal with external threats with increasing numbers of people and to be as visible and available in times of trial. We have our task force, but most of all, it's up to the general police in the country. And it's also very important that equipment and employment and police elections be good enough for the police to choose qualified individuals.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u27	A respectable president. I thank you for this discussion, and thank you for your upbuilding and positive spirit. Security is important. This is the basis for the community's working, being open and free, to have security for the common people. The police are a very important part of that. We've been living in Iceland with the quality that trust in the police has generally been very high and since the collapse of society's institutions after the big collapse, the trust in the police continued strong, and it's very important. The police are primarily a service agency to help the public to experience and to live in security. Therefore, it is very important for the police to live under proper employment conditions and, of course, is a reason to celebrate what is being added to the work of the police. But it is also important to answer not only questions about misuse of power but also suspicion or fear that power is being abused, so there is a greater opening of police work, a revelation of authority to power, etc. very positive steps. I just want to come into the border control, which the perfunctory spoke of at the end of his talk. I think it's very important for Iceland to think of the preemptive value of the Schengen team, cooperation and information shared by the European Police Department by the Schengen Commission. For Iceland and Iceland, Schengen is very important at European level to support that cooperation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u28	President. It's great to have this discussion on the surface. I call attention to the fact that it is at such times when people are filled with fear over some kind of threat that is close to civil rights being taken off without allowing them to be spoken against because much is played into their fears. Let us not forget, for example, that in the United States, many people die because of using firearms in that country. Let us not forget that every day a great number of people die from hunger. Let us not forget that today there is a threat to life, but that does not mean that we should subject ourselves to that fear, despite the highly advanced premeditated forms of research abroad, such as Paris. In France, it was decided that they would still increase their clearances from the horrors associated with Charlie Hebdo. In May there were accepted terrible laws that were highly involved in the privacy of citizens. It was not enough to catch the members who were planning the terrible things in Paris, simply because those who are planning to do terrible things may have ways that go by the police, no matter what police authority they have. That is why it is very important that we discern the requirements that we now hear, and were exactly the same as were used against Hells Angels, about broad sources of premedical research, as well as the listening in a far - reaching way. Let's not lose ourselves in fear. Instead, we must strengthen the law. I deeply agree with the speakers who have spoken to them but who have not forgotten us and will not lose ourselves in some fear that will soon fade away. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u29	V.E.G. President. I appreciate this discussion. I especially want to thank you for the emphasis that could be expressed in words of the highest degree. Minister of police operations and understanding of the group. I'd also like to thank you for the conversation that has been most balanced and objective. Police in Iceland have recently performed a thankless task under very difficult circumstances. We have put our trust in them. Police in Iceland are now putting their trust in us, who are in here. We need to rely on this trust and support their fight against domestic violence, sexual abuse, and other violent acts. We have to stand on their backs so that they've all been all done so that they don't need to be bare-handed, or with a bat and a moat of moats alone, armed against people who are insane about drugs and even armed with weapons of eggs. We need to arrange for the necessary equipment to be handled by the police. This does not mean that we are to harbor fear or fear, but we should not ignore the threats we face. That'd be a butterfly. On the other hand, we are to face the threat of living with the necessary equipment, training the local police, necessary to educate them, and making sure that they always have the tools and conditions that help the police be what was in my youth called police officers. I know that because I've been working with police for a very long time, I've had the privilege of having police officers in Iceland still in their hearts.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u30	V.E.G. President. We need to take a realistic view of the situation and make a decision based on information and assessment. In my speech, I mentioned here that the role of the State Marshal in these matters was extremely important. We get an assessment from the Marshal of State where the situation is being reviewed at any given time. We also have a report on the necessary equipment of the police. When you're talking about the need for equipment, it's right here to state that there are 73 thousand firearms written in the country. It's not like there's no weapons in Iceland. It's fine to realize that. This means that they can be used in various ways, of course, some of which are used for fishing and for such things, but these are weapons. It is quite clear that the police in the country, who are really concerned about our safety and freedom, which are completely united, must be able to cope with situations that arise. It is our taking the necessary steps to make sure that it is. All of this must be on the basis of moderate design and such things, but let us face the situation as it is. We have sometimes had to step in when we have been threatened. We know it here, which was held at the council a few years ago when it was decided to use a stricter border check on Hell Angels case. This benefited because humans had the necessary information and data to support it. That's very basic. That's why I feel very important to us as soon as we face the police emergency and have been responding to him, at the same time, to plan ahead. It takes time to put such plans forward. I mentioned a law enforcement program in my speech and these diagnostics that provide the basis for making balanced decisions when it comes to funding. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u31	Mr. President. Everything is subject to change. That's what I want to talk to you about today. The changes I think will be the most important in the coming decades of our lives are our travels. Technology and development in this field floats forward. For example, self - satisfied cars are not some undefined future mouse, since it may well be that my sons never take a car test. Another factor that forces us to change is climate change and the complex impact of our tourists on the environment. Our attitude is also changing. What once appeared to be fascinating, such as having a large suburban house with large weights and preferably two cars where the latter were considered to be human rights, is changing very much and rapidly, especially in younger generations, which, according to all local surveys, wishes to have fewer square feet and to live near the centre of urban and urban areas. A respectable president. I requested this special discussion about public transportation because it was important for me to talk about public transportation in connection with the changes I mentioned earlier. We may not have come to the point where these changes, except for maybe the climate change, will force us to pass over our daily routine, but we will soon pass. At that time, governments, whether here or anywhere, must act in step, preferably to be several steps ahead. I have felt a great deal of pressure on the use of public transportation, and this pressure comes from different directions. Building here a public transport system that is reliable, reliable, and practical is a great deal of work. When I say anything here, I mean the whole country, although I'm going to allow myself to focus only on the capital area in this special discussion. I believe that the success of building public transportation in the capital area is a test of how good we can do. In the capital area, you see, there is the largest mass of people to be treated in a practical way. The benefits will never be great if the land beneath is expanding into the infinite. It is a key factor in the competitiveness of the country that the capital area will develop in a modern - day society with international superiority where living conditions and opportunities will be comparable to other cities. It is a matter of convergence based on capitalism. With the newly released regional structure of the capital area, this necessary structure is emphasized. Accordingly, the number of inhabitants in this area will increase and if the predictions are followed, the number of people in the area will be around 300 thousand in the year 2040. As growth increases, there are complex challenges, unforeseen and unpredictable challenges facing the inhabitants of the region. One obvious problem is that more predictable population growth will be achieved without the growth of automobile traffic in the same proportion as without the breaking of uninhabited land over the past decades. A way to meet this is the city line. The city line is a new high - quality public transport system that connects the core of rural society and moves passengers in a quick and safe way around the capital area. The city line will be either a speed - moving system or a relief system. This results in a transport and development problem that connects the rural communities. Thus, the city line will be a practical option in transport and will play a key role in changing our travel practices. Along the city line will be an attractive structure site and area for employment and population. In effect, here I am describing a dream in which the strong city lines the capital area and transports some of its present - day inhabitants and future inhabitants. In order for this to work, however, much has to be done. First of all, there is the will to have this common view of the future. I think the regional structure of the capital area is a good indication that such a vision is attainable. Thereafter, multitudes of experts and people from different political groups came along, as well as people. This policy set out a policy of these rural communities on which to be maintained and what is more, why. Another factor that needs to be applied is mentality, since public transportation has often been quite negative, especially for those who do not use public transportation. According to Jarrett Walker, counsellor and specialist on public transportation, which recently arrived here, public transportation is successful where it is directed to specific locations such as lines that pass across cities and capital areas. He gives examples of line 1 from Hafnarfjörður to Reykjavík. Asked about the classic weather in Iceland, he said that the weather in Iceland was no worse than in other northly paths where people use public transportation to a much greater degree. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] As my time has gone out, I'd like to ask for answers from the Minister of the Interior Affairs on the government and the local community contract for public transportation and as well as its vision of how public transportation should build up. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u32	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Heiða Kristín Helgadóttir for starting this discussion. I would like to first say that on the development of transport in the capital area and, as far as transport is concerned, the legal long-term targets for transport are readily available, safe, practical, and environmentally acceptable. In particular, in terms of the environmental factors, I have emphasized the need for more varied means of reducing greenhouse gas emissions and increasing the share of ecological energy sources. Then I feel that it is very important to look to the whole transportation system and its multiple roles. The regional structure of the capital area, as tough as it is. A senator mentions, as a part of the process, in preparation for a 12 - year transport policy strategy. In terms of the development of transport systems in the capital area in the maintenance of the approved regional structure, the road structure and the organization have made an agreement for the development of transport systems in the capital area. It is aimed at completing 2016 of a wide range of assessments and processing projects involved in the development of the infrastructure system, the development of bicycling and the development of public transport. This also applies to a contract made by the State with the rural communities in the capital area on May 7, 2012, to ten years of age. Its purpose and aim included the growing share of public transport in the capital area and providing the basis for the continuation of large transport projects in the region at that time. There is no doubt that transport construction projects in the capital area are not acceptable. It must be possible to watch the interaction between public transport and the necessary development of transport workers. I don't want to set it up against each other. Each should be able to support the other. In the contract I am here referring to, the government was expected to land 900 million. K. Each year during the contract period for public transport in the territory of the regional organization. The owners of the bus committed themselves to contribute 2,347 million. K. every year. Both amounts should be adjusted according to the index, as specified in the contract. This agreement makes it clear that the government budget is on the alert to the approval of the General Assembly on the budget of each year. Similarly, local contributions are in advance of their agreed budgets. The government's payments on this contract have, as statistics show, dropped a year from the time of the contract. On the other hand, I stress that there is financial gain to meet the protocols, so I aim for 2nd's proposals by the government. budget to 100 million. K. Get ready for this. It should be sufficient for the government to fulfill the agreement made. I hope again that the council will show understanding of these suggestions. At the same time, I believe that all the rural areas in the capital area agree with me on that. As I said before, it was part of this contract to postpone certain large projects in the capital area while in effect. This has been the case, but I reiterate what I said earlier that the capital area must be viewed as well when it comes to the construction of transport workers. Regarding the immediate future, the contract has been revised every two years and the results of the project are developed and determined by specific criteria. The first progress evaluation was conducted in the spring of 2014, and the development of the project normally developed was the common conclusion of the state and community, and it should be continued. The next formal progress evaluation should be conducted in the spring of 2016. Of course, there will be more experience in the project, and it will be possible to determine whether the basis for the continuation of these projects, including the project, will be improved. in view of traffic development and other viewpoints that may be relevant to this process. I again emphasize what I said at the beginning of my talk that we must be able to view the structure of public transport and the necessary infrastructure of the transport system together. It's impossible to set things up with either/or. A wide variety of fleas live in Reykjavík and the capital area, using proben, and we must make a permanent decision to take these into account.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u33	A respectable president. Thank you for your discussion, boy. paritaprevir Heiða Kristín the daughter of Helgadóttir, for bringing up the matter of this need. It is a very serious issue in the way funds have been used to cover the public transport on the side of the State each year. When we met with the head of the local community in the capital area, this was one of the biggest complaints. Clearly, rural society has made great sacrifices for this agreement. For example, they fell from right to reimbursement a tax on public transportation. Under such circumstances, it is impossible to make agreements that meet the public, to the State. The importance of this agreement has been put to a few words in order to build environmental development possibilities. I miss having this agreement and additional investments in public transport not as a government's special objective already being made with promises of Iceland in order to fulfill the promises made by the government by the government about 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions to the year 2030. There is nothing Iceland can do that would be more convenient for us to fulfill this promise and that will make us a better investment in a more suitable structure based on the capital area than to invest significantly in public transportation. Therefore, the government should have a good view of its own in the first place, doing the existing agreement and investing so vigorously in further construction of public transport. [[Up front.]] Then there is a special topic to discuss the development of public transport in many lands. [[The president calls.]] Great changes have been made through the development of the bus throughout the country, but more government support is needed for that system to succeed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u34	Mr. President. First, I want to say that when an agreement was made to strengthen public transportation in the capital area, I rejoiced greatly at a time, and there was a slight further policy in the transport of the capital area. I consider this a question about quality of life. I am a capital resident, and I consider it a question of quality of life that half of all the land space is not protected under a manpower, whether or not they are car lots of cars or roads, but my access to good public transportation is just guaranteed, my and the generations that follow me, refusing to spend resources in cars. It is really amazing in 2015 that we have not even a hoverboard but are still buying tons of metal and glass to get around, spend untold amounts of money, and, unfortunately, release unscheduled greenhouse gases in most of these private cars. Indeed, public transport can help us reduce greenhouse gas emissions, help Iceland to reach its goal for the Paris summit, which is reducing emissions and helping to reduce emissions by 40%. They can also improve the quality of life of the common people, who just want cheap, good, and faster transportation. I think it's very important that the bus is such an alternative, with frequent travel. I strongly support the vision of the future as the spokesman for this case, gi. paritaprevir Heiða Kristín Helgadóttur, passed through a city line where we would be traveling with either sports or carriages that would ensure frequent travel between the main destinations in the capital area. When a transport program is going to take place and we finally have an opportunity to accept a transport strategy, but unfortunately, it has not been given many years, I hope that this vision will be taken into account, for of course, we are to revise our methods of transportation, and there are the greatest opportunities for urban living. I'm going to go to the top. A minister to provide an ambitious vision in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u35	A respectable president. I still review this discourse that transportation is health, education, welfare, employment, environment, and cultural issues. For the same reason, public transportation is also important in securing social justice and developing communities in urban areas and rural areas. Therefore, it is important to have a perspective on the group of people and to view public transportation in the country as a whole. Sadly, the budget currently spent on the seminar does not base on the need for overall vision. It is wise, as it was, to hide local people over public transport in the country, but we must have a complete view of the tribe. Is linking land, air, and sea a priority? Do we want to set some minimum standards for the country's circle by public transportation or by certain points in the capital area? Is it possible to look for inexpensive solutions to smaller locations? Is it possible to integrate service to rural areas that are not applicable to urban areas? What is the environmental objective of public transportation? I think this is a key. I finally want to take my heart with a verbal vendetta. We must create a vision of the future, which is common to the whole country and use the tools we have for doing so, i.e. Area structure and rurality. In so doing, we can achieve the results we need.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u36	A respectable president. I have to say, you often hear some ideas about improving public transportation in Iceland. Many people have many dreams about trains and the like. I must say for myself, I use bus very much and must be called a fan of the street. I've lived in three countries where I've used bus very much. I have to say, Iceland's busloads are not as damn as people think. In general, public transportation is not as damnable as people think. In our beautiful country, waiting for some sort of darkness is a particularly impatient experience, a strength as well as a weakness. Also, there is much complaint about price. It's easy for someone at the council buying not to complain about price, but I don't think it's excessive. Every time the price gets higher, you complain about it, you are always surprised that the prices are rising. So, the other question is, Could it be reasonable for Reykjavíkurburg, who would likely be found on the local work circle, because of the overall impact of the capital area, to have just left the bus for free? I wondered what the effect would be, how the pattern would change. It's been tested in Akureyri, I know, but, of course, circumstances aren't the same there. These are ideas that I find very interesting, and people shouldn't throw them off the table just because they think it should cost something. Of course this is going to cost something. This is one of the insides of society that enables us to do everything else in our daily lives. It is the common interests of all of us to make this work, even if we do not use the transportation ourselves. It's not just good for a bus travel person, it's good for society, necessary for economy, and essential for the whole community's infrastructure.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u37	A respectable president. Thank you for your fine discussion. It is important when we look ahead to our setting a proper course and do not aim everything out of the situation as we know it today. I welcome the highest words. Minister of the I.R. to the strategy in progress and in the future. That's important. It is not mere science fiction to visualize trains in the capital area or major changes in public transportation, rather than scientific fiction, to visualize a double capital area in 1985. It is important for the lives of the people of Iceland to continue developing areas, both country and capital. A strong capital area is important for the region and vice versa. The capital area needs to offer lifestyles for the population that are comparable and competitive to the life - style offered by cities abroad and other countries. It is desirable in itself to offer a life - style that allows you to live a good life and walk your business without having a ton of steel and glass, like a sledge. A senator put it here, and paid for the FIB ratings of less than a million or more a year for that to offer the possibility of a lifestyle without being dependent on these expenses and tons. We hear a discussion about a Memorial life - style. The likelihood that environmental change will force us to make such changes sooner or later. [[The president calls.]] It is vital that we offer that choice before we are forced to make a change.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u38	Mr. President. I agree with many of the factors mentioned here that follow many benefits if public transportation in the capital area can be made more practical for more people than at present. I'm not gonna reduce the importance of that. Also, I do not intend to detract from the fact that while a contract is in force between the state and the city of Reykjavík, it is natural to make a special contribution to public transport in the capital area, if it is promoted on the part of the State, and so important that the results of that work are regularly appreciated. However, I have to state that when the contract was made at the time, I had doubts about the premise that while larger transport projects in the capital area were delayed. In any case, good minds and plans for building public transport in the capital area will remain to consider the reality. The reality is that a lot of things and I allow myself to say that the vast majority of the capital area uses a private car. Of course, this needs to be taken into account in the building of transportation. You can't overlook that. However, I do not object to the fact that people follow this agreement especially if they can prove to be successful in this area, but I ask people to remember that the reality is that a large percentage of the population, including those living in the southwest corner, uses a private car, and for that part is the most practical option. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u39	Mr. President. • • providing assessments of public transport with regard to transport in transport safety, environmentally sustainable development and positive development. The Transport Plan was adopted during the last terms of a series of changes in national transport and transport laws. The road was then made possible to give private permission to rural, regional, and national components of rural society to organize and care for public transport. The organization welcomed the project and worked hard to organize transport systems between rural and capital areas. So, what a disappointment it was when the road broke free from the Union Union in South York on the way between Leifs son of Erik and Reykjavík in December 2013! Thereafter, due to contract fraud, the Union of Southnes went to court with Vega. The bill submitted during the last assembly suggested that money - making routes be moved from rural communities to private but unsurpassed routes would be left at the apartment. This made it certain that the public will not take advantage of money on improved public transportation. Plans for good public transport were thus being planned for final failure. Is it still possible to assume that this is the only way in which the people of Southnes have had to pass over? They need to carry the cost of an unsurpassed route, but the private property is exploited by the only practical way that could have been carried on by a reliable public transport system in the area. It is therefore difficult to believe that any senator can support such a quest for those who need to rely on public transportation or reject the security and environmental benefits of safe and frequent public transportation throughout the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u40	Mr. President. I believe it is very important that people do not compromise their plans to promote public transportation in the capital area, which was initiated by the government and rural contract in the region during the last term. Up to 1 billion bucks. It was devoted to promoting public transportation in the wide sense of that word, i.e. by improving the public car and service, by paying off the street bicycles, by walking traffic, and so on. Instead, the need for the construction of individual highly expensive transport workers, the mismanagement of trajectories, and such areas would be reduced. It would be a disaster in my mind if a person disappeared from this path, for it is obviously in such a great deal to attend, to national, environmental, social, and socially, as this is the most widely driven policy in advanced cities and communities, and although it would have been here before. I also want to remind you in the process that, at the same time, a great effort was made to connect a public transportation network on the southwestern corner of the region and the country all along, as well as to cooperation with the rural communities, in the sense that the local community's national tenets would be in accordance with treaties to do that service. Of course, it has had to be tailored to various lures, and some initial problems have been seen, including some areas of recovery that have been unacceptable and must be taken. The same is true here as it was here that even if people had experienced these problems and were severely disturbed by national groups such as the North Council of Ethral, they are strongly willing to continue their assignment. I'd like to ask the highest. As soon as it is good to have 100 million in the contract because of the capital area, and it will be possible to keep it: Is it not inevitable to add some money also to get it back in the areas where it has died? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u41	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Heiða Kristín Helgadóttir for making this issue and the highest case. Minister Ólöf Nordal for his entrance. The effort to promote public transportation in the general sense of the discussion can be very good. I can agree with the highest. Ministers and other things. Council members who talk about the importance of the overall context of transport and the role of public transport in this regard. I find it particularly interesting to be the social health and environmental character, but, of course, transport is involved in the workplace and at the same time a particularly important support for travel services. The structure and design of our organization are no less important in our activities and cultures, affecting our priorities and our choice of travel, our choice of time between secular work and leisure activities, and our leisure activities. Therefore, it is important that we plan public transport and environment with the objective that we contribute to environmental and eco-friendly, but also make practical journeys and connections to and between all transport workers throughout the country, all of which are less important. We have the image of human life that we want to see and have. Of course, here, you need a long - term thought and the ultimate vision. Minister entered a broad, safe and acceptable public transportation. Of course, parties from both administrative positions must be called, and especially, the direct democracy is to be respected.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u42	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you for the adulation, okay? paritaprevir Heiða Kristín, the daughter of Helgadóttir, for bringing this matter to your attention. I strongly agree with her. It is natural that public transportation is needed in the capital area. I rely on public transportation myself, and I've been doing it since I was a child. It hasn't always been the right end of the lines as different as there are many of them. I wondered how it would help to make public transportation in the capital area normal and ordinary transportation. Now the student cards for college and high school students are quite expensive, i.e. 46,700 bucks. which is a large budget team, especially if there is a single payment for students. I remember a time when it was considerably cheaper or about half the price, i.e. Twenty thousand of these services are worth much better. I want us to wonder if we could somehow come to a convention of college and high school students by paying off this student fee and perhaps more if desired. I see no objection to the efforts of the generals and to use the bus as much as possible. At any rate, at the European Parliament, members of the United States receive free street transport and public transportation in all Belgium to simply offset their private vehicle. It is all too used, and it is the environment. We need to legalize the use of bus. It's supposed to be ◯UBREE.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u43	Mr. President. I thank you so much for what I've been able to hear and thank those who participated. I am glad that 100 million will be put up with the contract I mentioned just before I finished my talk. I had not even begun to talk about Watermelon, as everyone was waiting for it. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I believe it is the key to making it possible in a practical way for the dense capital area and thus building a more efficient public transportation, so that it can be maintained. Otherwise, I wanted to agree with both of them. paritaprevir Ásta on to Guðgún Helgadóttir and why. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson to encourage senators to study the public transport system in the capital area. I have used the bus a lot, and I have also done so as a child - rearing purpose, and I have taken my sons to a bus to introduce them to this phenomenon. If you do not do so yourself, your children cannot be expected to do so. Another thing I wanted to say, which I cut in reply to the highest. Minister, regarding the continuation of performances and the lack of the thought so that public transportation and construction of transport could not work together. In some respects, I agree. Of course, you need to maintain your roads and other activities. But to me, it is dangerous to attack large buildings on larger and more workers under cars. All it does, and research has shown it, is increasing the number of cars. If we are serious about promoting the changes in travel practices, we must focus on the structure of public transport. I thank you very much for this discussion. I'd like to close my eyes at the very least to say what's happening. paritaprevir Ármannsson, son of Aargian, spoke of reality. After all, it can change and change very quickly. That's what I really wanted to do in these discussions.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u44	A respectable president. I appreciate the talk that's been great. Just for word's sake. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon's son on public transportation around the country, so I'll inform you from the question, it's part of a proposal in the budget that comes from the government that there will also be the growth of public transportation in the country, 57 million. K. It matters in this relationship. In view of the scope of the project, we know that there are somewhat different opinions in the national part of the world. We know the specific problem that the EICO is facing. Then there are only other viewpoints in some parts of the South. Then we know that in the near future, the Supreme Court will test the situation in the East, which can simply affect the way we view transport patents. It will be interesting to see the outcome. In fact, I think that many people are anxious about the conclusion too. I repeat what I've said: We're preparing policy to be twelve years old. That's important. It is always intriguing to wonder what it will be like in 50 years. That's what I was interested in when I started another type of transportation job, looking a little further into the future. What do we see? What we are doing in transport programs is a highly well - defined process that is regular, but sometimes it is good to get a little higher. In this regard, I think it's important to look at the variety. It is important for us when we put out logical reasoning in certain matters to realize that not everyone is like us, and not everyone is like that. paritaprevir Heiða Kristín Helgadóttir. That is what we need to keep in mind. [[The president calls.]] That's why I feel worse when things are set up against each other, since I don't think that's necessary. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u45	A respectable president. It is inevitable to comment that this matter is taken on the program one more time. It is amazing how many days of the Parliament's work has been subject to this trivial matter but even more remarkable that it is repeated in the absence of the highest degree. Secretary of state. Of course, it may be appropriate for a minister to be unable to attend a discussion or to be distracted from a discussion, but it will occur over and over again in the same discussion of the claim that it is held in the minister's absence, but it is not a good thing to do. Sadly, members of Parliament cannot have a word with the minister and, of course, have the right to wait until the Supreme Court. The minister of state can be here during the discussion I understand to be here today. There are other matters on the program that would take place in the meantime.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u46	For this reason, the president wants to inform us that it was observed at a meeting of the council officers last night to the highest level. A minister would be here to see the meeting later today. V.E.G. Ministers have been attending a foreign Ministerial Conference, which, of course, is a normal part of his duty. In other words, it was enlightened to the highest. A minister would be here for the meeting this afternoon.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u47	Mr. President. I don't make any comments at the highest. Minister of state to his foreign duties. I, however, require the presence of a minister, especially in view of the controversial nature of the case presented here. What has marked a discussion of this is that the reasonable questions raised by members of the government's stand are generally not answered. This may be explained to some extent by the highest degree. Ministers of foreign affairs have had little to do with the discussion and others why. The members of the administrative body have not given up or kept an eye on this matter. Therefore, I believe that this is a perfectly normal requirement, to the highest degree. Minister on the discussion. I would have considered normal, in view of the fact that nothing else is on the program for this meeting, as I understand it, that there will be a recession at a council meeting until the highest level. A minister may attend the discussion. We know that there is no number of cases for going to the government, so it should be easy to grant that request.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u48	A respectable president. It is both natural and objective when it comes to discussing matters of great opinion and is a great debate over the matter of the minister's being present. As a result, a state council tradition is even more important, when we are experiencing the fact that the government has no other issues than this. That the minister it offers, which seems to be the only spokesman for the case in the management team, apart from that, would honor the council for having a word about the matter and is here to counter and participate in the discussion. I agree with those here who have made comments that the matter is being discussed with the distant minister and that it is simply reasonable to ask for his return.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u49	President. I want to make sure that it was our understanding of the council classes at the highest level. The minister of foreign affairs would have arrived at the start of this discussion, so I feel perfectly normal that a meeting will be postponed until the time of the climax. Minister of foreign affairs come to the council to answer for this matter. I just think it's perfectly normal and I want to challenge a president because I just think it's crazy that one thing is said - and if it's happened to them at a council meeting at the highest. A minister would not be in the house when this discussion began, of course, some other matter should have been established. That's what I want from the President for every meeting until he's finished. The minister of foreign affairs can be here and participate in the discussions, defending his speech, which is bad.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u50	The president does not know that it has been a common understanding that this program will not be discussed until it reaches the highest level. The minister of foreign affairs would come, it was only reported that the Supreme Court. The secretary of state would come to the meeting later today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u51	A respectable president. I don't understand why we can't wait for the Minister. We've talked about it a few times before, and I've had two talks, asking questions over and over, and nobody comes and answers them. I feel like the highest. The president as our president, the president of our council, should protect our right to get answers to questions that are presented sincerely. These are bad practices, and I don't quite understand why people are going this way. The state of the council is discussed extensively. I wondered if it's such a council. President wants to fire, i.e. A council of ministers bringing them through the council at a speed of record. I think the President should consider what kind of trial this case had. I think it ran out in a couple of days' coverage after the rest of the notice. With all such conflicting issues, I want the president to think carefully about whether he can do it on our behalf to demand that the minister be here and answer our questions we have on this case. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u52	A respectable president. I want to reiterate what I did here earlier. It is true that he announced the absence of the Minister in front of the discussion today. There is nothing better to accept the matter in the absence of Ministers, especially when it is happening once more that the minister is away from this discussion. Of course, it is even less difficult when no member of the Independence Party or any member of the Convention seems to support this matter. For example, no member of the Convention has spoken for this matter here on this matter. It is minimum to have one member of the board bill to measure the benefits here during a discussion at the council. Since there is no other candidate here at the council who is trusting to recommend the case, the absolute minimum is that the agent himself is here to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u53	A respectable president. When we were in our discussion here last session, we were called on to be the presence of the minister who had then jumped home in a prime example to hide among his party brothers at meetings with candidates in the district and never came to that discussion. In view of this, it is hard to believe that the matter is now being reassigned to the minister from the remote. As we have seen, people have been discussing this objectively. There have been many questions and concerns raised in the language that is natural for the minister to answer. He is, as has been said before, the beginning and end of this matter. He is the founder, responsibility for it, and since his party brothers do not trust to be here for answers in his place, it is not too much to expect him to come here personally and be present. I strongly support the wish that this discussion will be postponed until the Minister can arrive and represent his case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u54	A respectable president. What is this nonsense? Is it not clear to the president that the reason we are still here is that the Minister has not been able to meet the council? The president makes it a point to list the various duties of the Ministers, both in foreign countries and in the interests of the forwardness party last week, but the obligation to meet with the Council is not at the top of the list. Where exactly is that obligation? Twenty speeches have been held here in 2nd. and all full of questions to the highest level. A minister that hasn't been seen here. He hasn't been seen here at 2nd. It is unacceptable, more dignified, than to interrupt the discussion until the minister has shown himself here in the hall, and I think that incomprehensible anything other than the president will be granted that logical request.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u55	A respectable president. There is no one in the board of directors in the hall, and no one was in the side room until recently, now sitting there. 1st. s.. The path to the program "umount" So I wondered why we should sit here and talk about this case when there is no answer. It is clear that there are aspects of this matter, and none of it, either in major parts or in smaller parts, seems to have come to realize why it is presented. It seems to me that this situation is the identifying mark of the loss of the case in a government that makes us just got nowhere else to talk about. But if we have nothing to talk about, we should also be honest about it and not be talking about it. There is enough else that the council might be doing. For example, we might include other special discussions on the program. We might have some special discussions, perhaps especially about the council, if that is the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u56	Senator business.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u57	Mr. President. It should be president and people to realize that it is the desire of senators to have the highest power. Secretary of state on this discussion. It's his stone embryo that he's having a hard time coming off and sitting with, for this case is completely incomprehensible. V.E.G. As noted, a minister of foreign affairs does not have many friends on this matter. There's only one brave man, huh? paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson, who has taken this discussion for his leader. [[Up front.]] It's just a normal requirement for us senators to have the discussion wait until the highest level. Secretary of State is counting on him, and he may be doing his duties and coming to the council. I think the highest. The president should listen to members of the council in this matter and recognize their natural demand to postpone the discussion until the minister arrives. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u58	A respectable president. I simply think that the matter has grown to such an extent that someone has to participate in the discussions on the part of the administrative committee and explain it. I gave a long talk during the last assembly on the subject and asked a number of questions, including the following: for the change in policy, which involves reducing the use of the Generals to the 2008 Advisoral monitoring and policy, though it was a transpolitical stand. These views are not answered in a report with the bill that has just been submitted again. These views are not answered in the opinion of a greater part of the State Department. I must have a place to speak at the highest. Minister of state in my first speech on this matter that I can deliver today about these factors, and get some answers. There's got to be some debate at the Senate Hall about this. There is no way to ignore the viewpoints presented and not answer them. The proponents of the case, advocates of the greater part, must give reasons for their speech and answer the comments made. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u59	President. I'd like to point out to the president that the plane is the highest. Secretary of State is coming with us from Brussels has landed. She's a little late. She landed at 8 p.m. 15.23 according to the Keflavour Airport web. I suppose the Foreign Minister should be able to be here by four o'clock, so I suggest that we postpone this meeting to four or until our most beloved. The minister of foreign affairs is able to come and participate.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u60	A respectable president. I gave this talk the other day, and among the things I discussed was that I would like to have a place to speak at the highest level. Minister. I imagine he wants to do the same. It's the only bill he's got on his Constitution. He has nothing else to offer, no other cases, no legal adjustments except to put down a developing research agency and take over in the Ministry. That's what this matter is about, putting down an entire institution and putting it under the Ministry, putting it under a minister, to do what? This is not indicated in the case. This lack of logic is not enough for a person to realize it. That's why it's so important for humans to have the highest power. Minister of the Assembly Hall to discuss this matter. Total minimum. These are incredible, and these are unaccustomed, nastyest vows of the highest. Minister. You've never experienced anything like this before. He's never gonna come in here and discuss this? Will he turn this one language into the council, then go away and be somewhere else while it is taken care of? Will he not reason on the matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u61	Mr. President. I'm amazed that the president has decided to have the program in this way. Now I am convinced that the president has listened more frequently to the complaint. Congress officials are concerned about this case, but he wants it. V.E.G. Of course, the president would know what would happen if it was the highest. The minister of foreign affairs would not be in the hall when the matter was scheduled. So I want to agree with them. Councilmen who have suggested that we pause at meetings until the Supreme Court. Secretary of state is coming to the chamber. It is clear that there are many questions that no one can answer except the highest. Secretary of state and what. Councilmen have called for. I want less than I can do. Mr President, he's the president of all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u62	Mr. President. It always takes breaking laws and rules. In this case, there was a unique situation. The Foreign Affairs Committee, then, did not allow members of the committee to discuss the matter face - to - face with various parties. To break that tradition, and that right of our senator costs it to the highest. A minister must come here and sit under the discussion. This was shown in the case of a man. paritaprevir The Ögmundur - year - old son of Jónasson says that in one particular application, it is pointed out that there are misinformation, which some now call a greater word than only false records, to be found in a report at the highest level. Minister. Hv. paritaprevir The jealous son of Jónasson wants to have a word with him. It's got the most distant place in the world. A minister of his country's advancement made this issue even more difficult. I believe this discussion cannot be concluded until then. paritaprevir The 100 - year - old Jónasson, who is in legitimate charge for the Allied Council of Iceland, is able to discuss this at the highest level. Minister because we at the government opposition and her representative were not allowed to discuss this on the committee. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u63	A respectable president. Is the president proud of what it's like to work through the council, that there are two days between the deadline and the appointment? Is that what we think is a professional practice? Is that normal for us? I have to say exactly as it is, I don't understand why we can't have a recess until the Minister gets here because neither he nor the people in this business have come up here and answered our questions. Does this mean that our dealings with members of the Parliament have become like this? I think that's why we can do this, and that's why we're just gonna go through a little bit without respecting professional work practices and how to talk to people with democratic terms and because we're going to be part of the same part of the council. A respectable president. They must start coming down from their high horse and participating in the council as they are elected.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u64	A respectable president. Of course, this is quite remarkable if it is possible to substantiate an institution with decades of accumulated knowledge and staff advising on a set, hard, important matter, if it can be laid down by the minister's authority without a minister having so much as to attend the council to discuss with other members of the council on such a decision. As noted, the matter has not been reviewed. The secretary is away. This is a disgrace to the council and legal treatment in this room. What a delight it would be to put down an organization with all its factors, thereby dishonoring and not respecting the head of the Agency or its employees so highly that the matter will be handled properly with the Minister of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u65	Mr. President. I bid here a sound to accept the wish that a meeting be postponed until the highest degree. Minister is coming here for the council. In fact, I don't believe that this is the third day of Congress, where the matter is not discussed at all. A minister is present, although he has been called repeatedly after the discussion and has been identified as having the highest questions. A minister has been directed to whom we would like to know. I would also like to agree with those who have been puzzled at the convention program today. It would have been possible to have a completely different subject on the program, and it would have been impossible for them to discuss a meeting government indefinitely.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u66	Mr. President. I agree with what was said earlier that the president could expect this in view of the way the discussion has been handled and because of the request of the party to be received in the highest court. Secretary of state. As it turns out, he was overseas. So I have to say that I found this matter very strange to me today. We have issues that we can discuss, public financial matters. It's ready to discuss it. We could have taken it and talked about it today and kept this case until the minister was clearly in the house. I don't quite understand the priorities. A president of that subject and why he chooses to do this, in view of the fact that this is the case, the members of Congress continue to talk about the President's conference board until a minister comes to the house. There is nothing more to do about it than to do it. I think that if the President is going to continue in the evening to discuss the development of a research agency, he must ask himself, " Is it not time to interrupt a meeting? ' There's got to be a break for half an hour or an hour or so while we're waiting for a minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u67	Mr. President. This, of course, is surprising when we work at a seminar at the General Assembly. Here we are expected to communicate, to give reasons for differing views. There has been little about it in this case, there must be said at the moment, in view of the fact that the matter is not about, although it seems on the surface, about a simple change in founding, but it is a foreign political decision being made on one of the basics of the Icelandic foreign policy, which is developing cooperation. And this bill is presented at the same time as we can see an even more ambitious goal than were previously offered in contributions to global development, and it is only perfectly normal for us to expect to have a conversation about the subject. This is Iceland's foreign policy, Mr. President, and no one is going to be here and answer for these changes. This seems ambitious, or suggests that the conviction is no greater than that side of the board of directors. Then the General Assembly of Iceland should begin to think.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u68	V.E.G. President. There's talk of the absence of foreign ministers as long as this case is discussed. That's right, he hasn't been here, but he's been asked for his presence. But I say, it's not enough for me that he's coming here, sitting in his seat, and not participating in discussions. [[Up in the hall: right.]] Worse yet, members of the State Department, outside the chairman who now sits here, have not been here. So the greater part of this matter has discussed the matter with 2 Peter. Ten minutes. It was written under the name of the committee. The chairman of the board that was brought here. There has been no further discussion with members of the council. I'm making very serious comments on the committee case. When a hearing was completed, it was requested that men come to discuss the matter. What, then, did the first vice president of the Committee declare? Yes, it would be all right to have a meeting and a guest in the morning, but the situation would be taken out then. It didn't matter what visitors might have said. There's a lot of comment on the case, in a review to the State Department, which seems to me that the greater part has not taken into account. The majority will have to answer for it here at the Council. What does it say? paritaprevir Is this what Birna Kristjánsdóttir Hanna to do? It's a shrapnel job on the Foreign Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u69	A respectable president. In itself, I do not feel strongly about this particular matter, but I still feel that there are many questions that do not go unnoticed. But what I find so strange here at the council is how little involvement is on account of the greater part of the matter. It confirms this feeling that the government presents a case that will only go through the council when more part is on the green button. If I were in the big part and believed in this case, I'd be here like a maniac running away and trying to convince my share that it's a good thing. That's what I'm supposed to do. But where is the conviction? She's obviously not here in this council hall. Then I was going to make such a clear suggestion, that at first the highest. A minister is not in the area who would be able to replace him. Hv. A manager is in the area and will likely be involved in these discussions, since the rest is natural.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u70	Mr. President. The democracy works in a way that the majority end up in control. The minority, however, has its rights, and the right is somewhat well developed in the unwritten traditions of the council, but also directly in the law. For example, a minority should be allowed to get empty to study the matter, and a portion of it is to review the reviews and discuss with those who give the reviews. This is the first case in my 25-year story here that it didn't get in all cases. Since then, some of the narratives, including those, have been pointed out. the parts that were not specifically addressed to the committee are directly presented as a legal case for the bill. Then there's only one man who can support that matter if the committee didn't discuss it. It's not why. Chairman of the State Department. It's the one who's responsible for the report. It's the highest. Minister. That's why he has to come here for the discussion, be with it all. In fact, I believe this discussion should be postponed until those who have asked legitimate questions and who have legitimate absence can come and talk to the highest level. Minister. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u71	A respectable president. This has been shown to suggest that we could be talking about public financial matters. It's a big, dramatic, interesting subject that, at least, no ideological differences are involved and it would be a good idea for us to discuss here. It has been said that this is a disgrace to the council. I mean, it's also a disrespect to the audience because the audience is now supposed to listen to us repeating what we've said many times over the past week, and before, without even hearing any objections, without hearing any objections from the government or, of course, the highest authority. Secretary of state. How would it be, Mr. Honorable President, if the audience put on the World Congress Channel or watched the World Council online with interest instead of always watching something such a program as this unconvinced on the basis of the role of the council? The role is to reason, and something cannot be reasoned on its own. Well, it takes two at least.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u72	Mr. President. Of course, it's just a mistake that we're here on the third day to discuss this matter, it's day three in this case, and to the highest. The minister of foreign affairs is not present for the discussion, and this has not been better prepared by the highest degree. President to ensure that the minister would be at the discussion. When I joined 1st. and, actually, 2nd. was the highest. Minister, however, attended the 1st. I remember that when I wished for a minister to come to answer, I had my hope that this terrible matter would go to sleep with a long committee, such as the concentration case of booze. And I still wish to, for this is a ill thinking, thoughtless case, and it is being broken down by this great institution and trampled under the minister's office. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u73	Mr. President. Dear President. Now it's been informed of the highest. Minister of Foreign Affairs that his feet were expected to have studied with his foster country about half an hour ago. As a result, he has taken over his duties from those who held them in his absence. V.E.G. The minister of foreign affairs must rejoice that he is asrely missed here and that he is in haste to meet the council. I'm the first man here on the rosary, and I had made a very repeated request, in a discussion on this matter last week, that, as an example, I would not have to give my second keynote address to this discussion until I had the opportunity to follow in hearsay questions to the highest level. Secretary of state. I have to say exactly as it is, most respected president, that I am a little surprised that the matter should still begin with the foreign minister of the remotest, and especially if it is only a minute's question that he will be here for a meeting. So I can do little more than recall what I've asked before, to the highest. The minister will be here for the discussion before any of the talks we have in this case will be made to think that he is absent.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u74	A respectable president. According to recent reports, soon it will be the highest. Secretary of state is coming to the house. I wondered if we couldn't be a little creative in a position that's up and up. The president interrupted the meeting, and we were about to try to sit down with the head of the foreign committee and try to find some physical surface on the case. We have many fine examples of this, and especially in this ideal period, bad things come to the council and are soon to remember the recalling of the bill by the superintendent. Environment Minister of the Protection Act, who led the way. paritaprevir For Höskuldur, son of Þór, the son of Þórhallsson, to set about a upbuilding, well - mannered course. That is where the chairman of the committee was put to the test. Now the Chairman is trying. A foreign committee, Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, whether or not she's willing to use a creative political approach here and the novelty to help us let the Council hold our heads to a minister who refuses to interact with the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u75	Mr. President. Hv. Councilmen have reasoned very well on their request not to continue the discussion or to put the matter on the program until it is at the highest level. Secretary of state is in the house. The President has not responded to that request, but I would like to encourage President and wοuld. The head of the State Department is making a good suggestion. paritaprevir The Swavarsdóttirs of Svavarsdóttir, who was about to sit down to solve the problem. During last week's discussions, there were many ideas that made good peace, including the possibility of waiting for the resolution or assessment made by FAC. I'd like to agree with that wish and ask the President to take a good idea. Group president of the Left Green.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u76	A respectable president. I'm not going to make comments to the program. But I would like to point that out, because we must, of course, hope that people want to be reasonable, that it is not true and not true that the matter has not been dealt with in a natural and traditional way with a foreign committee. It's just not right and it's not true. The matter became unchanged at this council today, a total of some 30 hours in this hall, at 12 meetings by the Committee. It was a regular and traditional reporting deadline. All received a request to give reviews that were previously made. All those who sent in reviews this time came before the committee, all requests for visitors to the Committee were accepted. So it is not right to try to say so - we can handle the matter, we can even deal with the fact of the highest degree. Secretary of State is not here - but it is not true and it is not true that the matter has not received normal and conventional treatment on the foreign matter committee. I wanted to keep it up, and there wasn't any difference. Although there was certainly no agreement on the matter on a foreign matter committee, there was no disagreement on the committee. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u77	A respectable president. Of course, it was very controversial that the matter was taken out of the committee, that everyone at the council knows, and it was a very modified foreign office that handled the matter since our last spring. But let it lie in between things. A few questions remain, at least on the part of the minister who has not been present. There are questions such as whether he was unhappy with the development community, whether he would like to receive criticism from professional executives, whether he would change Iceland's development aid, how, why, and in what ways and when? Will he reduce the number of countries we are trying to help? Will he give greater emphasis to underground geologists? Is Iceland's Development Fund going to the Power Institute? Is there no other subject for which he will present himself? Is this his only business in politics? He moved to the highest. Minister from Sheep's Jar to Reykjavík to put down the Development Cooperative Agency? At the council, we would need to know the answers to such questions, and it is perfectly normal for the government to resolve matters that are not present.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u78	Mr. President. I can say every word the last speaker ever spoke. Without question, the purpose is unclear, so we are floundering. It was said that we were not just talking to each other at the council but, rather, perhaps, overexciting those who are interested in watching the council on television. It is a question of whether the audience needs to be reimbursed because this certainly sucks. The General Assembly is to be a conversational field, not an automatic relief agency, which will just vomit out some stuff without a total. I ask, Mr President, what's the worst thing that could happen if we were to postpone a meeting for about half an hour, an hour, or until the minister of foreign law is due?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u79	V.E.G. President. For word's sake. I'd like to say that I've read the meetings. On Thursday, October 14th, a hearing was held in the Department of State at the usual time. Then the memory of a certain guest was asked, and the vice president of the Committee announced that it was all right to take the guests in the following day, just in the morning, but it would still be taken out that day. These are not traders, a respectable president. On October 16, this meeting is held during the secondary session of the State Department, not at the usual time, and the case is resolved. I've been chairman of a Senate committee, and I've never known that this work was done in this way, that, as soon as a guest of the committee was agreed, it really doesn't matter what they say, the case would still be taken off the committee. That's what I'm trying to criticize too, that's what this case is. It can't be like that, a respectable president, even though a case has surfaced at the last assembly, it's just some sort of spontaneous decommissionment agency now. [[The president calls.]] There are three new members of the Foreign Affairs Committee, including the Chairman, and I think it's only natural that men had reviewed these comments. For example, I am skeptical of the comments made by the German European Union of Iceland. I can't see it in the meetings.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u80	Mr. President. Of course, I will take the word if it is a firm resolve for the president to continue the discussion until the end of this round without the highest level. The minister of foreign affairs has arrived at the Assembly Hall and perhaps even if he has ten minutes or 15 minutes left in the house. I think it's a little special. This will mean mostly that I give my second keynote address to this discussion that the minister is absent in spite of any request for the opposite, immediately asking for the word again but has only five minutes to follow my case in the Supreme Court. Secretary of state. True, I can do so more often if I have to. This is not necessarily the expression that would have been the most pleasant in this matter for us. It is not as if we are in dire need of time, for as it is known, there has nothing to do with the government, which in itself is fine, especially if there are mishandling hands, it's fine that men aren't very diligent. As a result, we can take reasonable time to organize and arrange the council and discuss this matter. But this has not been especially upbuilding. [[The president calls.]] Then I'll go to my seat and get my data and assume that I should begin my speech, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u81	Mr. President. I must start where I ended, by criticizing it, and it's going in again, to the highest level. The minister of foreign affairs should not attend the discussion or arrange for him to stay here, sit under all of it, and participate in it all the rest of it. That would be the minimum, wouldn't it? We're at the highest point. Minister is the only one who can answer very many questions, i.e. If he can. For example, it is obvious that as the bonds reach the point that information in the bill's report is even misleading, or which is obvious, that there are completely illogical statements on the alleged benefit of this case, no members of the committee, even though they may be large - minded about the matter, can be answered in certain details. It would really not be fair, unless they had reviewed it with a minister and had all the information about it, but it will not have been. There are a lot of questions left in this matter, which are naturally required to be answered before these changes occur. We've been trying to improve our work in uniting institutions and working on them with a good foundation. There is a manual on this in the Ministry of Financial Affairs and Government Review over the years to give repeated suggestions on how to handle such matters. Chapters have been designed to work with employees and partners in a good way. There will not be a compliment to the present government that it has continued to develop a careful methodology in these areas. Current level. The government has preconceived more than one and more than two such cases. Everyone knows how one might have acted in a wrong way toward something that might have been fine, to move in stages, and on the basis of a careful preparation for the central business of the north - country Fishing Office, would have been right to do so, and to work properly with employees, allowing it to take its time. I believe, too, that the preparation of the OPC and the Marine Research Institute has also been poorly prepared, especially with regard to the personnel programme. That case was worked almost entirely without consultation with the employees'unions. I know. Instead of looking for cooperation with them, get them working to identify, for example, the possible additive effects, the positive effects, and the negative effects of bringing these activities together, they were not. Here's my third example of preemptive work. Of course, it would have been another look if it was the highest. A minister would have put the matter in a difficult suit and direction following the report he uses as his main tool in this case, loved by a representative of the Red Cross, put down a group of employees, and perhaps an independent party from the university, and, if that had been the result, we could have been able to build on the common, well-founded opinions of such a group, where the Agency's employees with special knowledge of the profession would have been members of the case and would have agreed with it. But there's nothing like that to be distributed here, nothing. It's a product of some closed job in the Ministry, and it lacks shocking support. Let's go over where the evidence should lie. First, and the most important part is the highest. A minister gave credible professional reasons for doing this. It's not done. On the contrary, there are some details that point even in the opposite direction. With the change, there could be a professional setback, a lesser measure and independence that would exist when the professional views have been grafted together with the general foreign policy and its implementation at the Ministry. Is there any support in the report for this? No. There is no need for people to be assertive, to point out that despite and in addition to the changes made in recent years, as stated in the bill, there is still considerable scope for increasing coordination. A more dynamic, flexible, and cohesive approach to the media can be achieved by deportation. You could have added this list that it would be more fun and something like that, but that's no reason. Anyone can make such statements if he does not have to have one reason. This is not done in the report, and it has not been done here with the members of the case, since they are few who are aware of it. It's one of the most orphaned cases that's been going on for a long time. That's a normal requirement. A minister makes at least an attempt to produce professional, sound arguments. Second, in such cases it would be reasonable to ask for financial arguments. V.E.G. A minister would probably have some difficulty explaining to us that this was a financial advantage, a management bill, or the opinion of an official financial office at the Ministry of finance, saying that perhaps, sometime in the future, could lead to this kind of savings. It's not easy to say. Has the Minister any financial issues that the Ministry of finance overlooked? Is there anything else in the pipes? Does Minister of State have ideas about how to do this in a different way and how to save, although the Ministry of finance does not see it itself through its professional expertise? I'd love to hear the highest possible voice. Minister on that. There, of course, is the ultimate need. Ministers come here and speak honestly about what's in his mind and the Ministry is in this coordination thought. What does it mean to have this in some sense that the Ministry possibly puts into it? We want to know exactly. Does this mean that developing cooperation will become an involuntary unity that does not have the same professional degree of independence that it has today in an independent and independent institution? Then it's a very serious thing we want to talk about here. We don't want any hide-and-seek about that matter. It is implied and can be read between the lines thinking that the emphasis on developing cooperation should be made with the general international foreign policy of Iceland, even at any given time. Does this mean, then, that it should be converted into some means to achieve some other goal? Political goals, interest targets? Is our year at a table in certain parts of the world? It is simply something that at least me and others will rise up against completely. It would be a setback, a step back to the past decades, a failure in methodology in this field, which has been abandoned and learned from all over the world. In neighboring countries, the combination of foreign and commercial interests and professional emphasis on developing help is absolutely forbidden. If there is something that is sacred today, it is to defend oneself against such charges and to get datamakers to trust that they will do nothing more than do their jobs, to do good, to help the locals on their behalf in trying to develop their communities, to improve the standard of living, and conditions. We're talking real things when it comes to this thing. To the extreme, the situation is completely disturbing. Ministers get away with it, and the management team is going to disappear in the smoke as soon as the case is scheduled, and no one is trying to pick up the glove or pleas for the minister or the case. It tells a story about the mismanagement of this challenge. There is no one left but the minister himself unless he chooses to retract the matter, which he probably does not have a choice. After all, there are a number of intermediate ways in which people might want to be positive and solution - oriented and have mentioned questions about how to get out of this, so everyone kept their face. I would think that it would be in some way by postponing the law, even if it was approved. Change this in their nature, perhaps into a warrant law, a requirement that men have already worked this case properly before this union is attacked. They would wait for OECD, perhaps put a team of work to better analyze the matter with experts'members, provide reports on this to the Council, and then the law in itself made it possible that they would fully meet the authority to do this after a year or two if men still thought it would be advisable, which I seriously doubt would be the result. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u82	A respectable president. I want to thank you. The speaker's talk and for interesting ideas that he brought at the end of the discussion about how this matter could be resolved. We've tried day after day to land the case in some way. That's why we've requested that there be a representative of the members of the administrations and ministers in the hall to have a conversation about that. [[Up front.]] I agree with that. Hence, a senator must insist that a minister come here and have a conversation with us. I like the ideas he's tore up here about how we might land this case. During discussions with the President's conference board earlier, the chairman of the committee came up here and explained to us that the case was finished in her opinion. Why does it say that? Yes, because the matter had been discussed during the last assembly. But the matter goes down, they come back into Congress, and in the meantime, members of the committee are even changed. The chairman of the Committee did not even sit on the committee itself during the last assembly when the matter was discussed. Hv. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller did a fine job of reviewing the deadline for the 15th of October, rather than November. The following day the subject was discussed, and the following day the matter was taken out at an unconventional meeting time. I'm asking why. A senator: Does he feel that he is working properly? How does he generally feel about this practice and that the president of the Senate approves of it by convening the matter repeatedly with the will of the others who want it to be discussed in a professional way? It's not only those in the Foreign Affairs Committee who wanted it. It's not just the members of the foreign committee who wanted it. It's also with the rest of us who are going to vote on this matter. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We want the case to be handled properly by a committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u83	Mr. President. I believe that in spite of strong criticism of this matter, many members of the council have been able to discern the will of many members of the council. I allow me to say that if people are not too stubborn, it would be possible to break the point of their mania and admit that it is not a reasonable tool and a man - made expedition. Regarding the treatment of this matter, as long as matters do not live between council members and one continuous process involves the investigation of them and their work, they are reassigned and under exactly the same procedure. There are no special requirements for this or for any short or unsatisfactory treatment. It is simply so that if a judicial committee intends to establish a law, it is necessary to ensure that the trial is in a specific way, there are three discussions, the case is involved, and that the Council meets its so - called research duties. Care must be taken to ensure that a matter is never solved. And since the United States Council was united in one seminar, it has been said that someone would want to be brought back to the committee between the 2nd and 3rd. has always been the case. It was scheduled during the coming session when the Allied went to one seminar. Then, at last, languages develop and develop. Their attitude toward them changes. This can even happen between council members or in six months. I give an example of a very similar situation when it comes to the Supreme Court. The secretary of finance gave a bill and planned to bring down the government's bank office. He could see about that. The bill was never done. How are things today? The government's banking department was hiring two new employees, and now no one is expecting anything but to continue working. A fine example of how a situation benefited from the criticism it received here. [[The president calls.]] It totally changed the course. Why would this not be so, if we now had a place to speak at the highest. A minister and a proper discussion of that?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u84	A respectable president. It's good to go. Consider the case of a senator. The difference between the two counsellors is the highest. A minister of finance came to the council, referring to us as a place to speak about the degradation of the Bankander's establishment. But then it changed the subject of a conversation with members of the council here. That's the big difference. But I feel that it is so important to draw up in this discussion whether we really feel normal and to imitate the fact that the subject is proposed until the fall and the day after the announcement is considered, and the following day it is torn out of the committee at an unusual time, i.e. not at regular meeting time. Is this to be followed, especially when one third of the committees is new? Second, according to the conference plans, the question was also made. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller earlier, not all comments were discussed in a committee on the subject. What kind of work is that? But the chairman of the Committee, a new committee, decides that this is all right. Is it not the same person who speaks for new politics, discussions, and conversations and changes in business? Yes, it's quite a change in business. I don't remember this kind of attitude before the council and the council. Then we'll know what's behind the changed practice by then. paritaprevir Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, that is, do not care for her ethic by making a thorough investigation and also giving others the opportunity to review it professionally. The cat's saying: " A case goes down between councils. ' But this was the chairman of the committee in a talk chair and held out almost otherwise. Could it not be that men are breaking a council if it is based on the reputation of the foreign committee? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u85	Mr. President. It must naturally be remembered that there is a more reprehensible reaction to the work on the Foreign Affairs Committee that there was no special call for this speed, unless something was hidden from us. At the beginning of November, this was the case. Perhaps it has been under pressure to get it on schedule so that other matters would not come in, the minister may have been under pressure or what do I know, I hope that it did not have a major impact on the work of the Committee, which should not be done. A person should take the time he needs to do things well. There I think that men hurried too far, although it may not be possible to say that the council was so broken in a direct way. But this is also a matter of communication, of tradition, of how hard people are going to agree to be careful and efficient, and there have been problems with that. I must also say and enter it as a matter of course. The senator mentioned in his first answer, that I am becoming very bored that we should continue this discussion without the minister's presence. I think it's humiliating. I would say with all due respect to the president, both now on board, though I know that he does not have the prime responsibility, and our principal president: I believe the President of the Generals should have used this case now and the circumstances that have existed since the last week to teach the Ministers and the councilmen manners. More and more often, they show limited respect for jobs at the General Assembly, in order to be spoken of lightly. It is beginning to look in the legal explanation of young senators that the duties of a minister to the council are the only ones to enter their noses and measure for their bills, then if they have gone away and have no obligation to appear and answer their case, answer their questions to the members of the Parliament, become requests to come and have a place to speak to them. I won't, while I'm enjoying it here, let this trend run without cause, so much is certain, for then the Allied Council is first putting down gravely if it is intended to leak down to its rights, its constitution, its legal rights to provide the European Commission. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u86	Mr. President. What is needed in order to make a decision to put an organization into place? I wonder if she has failed in some way. Don't you think that she has overstepped her budget repeatedly? Is it not likely that it would be possible to point to examples that the institution and its administration are not going to do so in accordance with government policy? Would it not be impossible for her not to watch and adapt to the changes in time? Something like that must have to be in order. None of these have been identified in the development of a research organization. On the contrary, a paper with the bill, by permission of the president, says: THESSI has done a very good job in the field, so it is noted. The report also says that the independent reviews of development as a team have proved to be complex. When it comes to the fact that the Agency has not done anything wrong, when it comes to planning a change, you are not going to lead to a special economy, when there is the financial agency's review that it has nothing to save, you find that there is some other purpose behind it. Anything other than the argument that usually determines such decisions. Then I review what I've already said from this chair that at a meeting of the State Department, it was asserted by the Agency officials that already the highest level. A minister would have called them to a meeting and told them about his decision to shut down the Agency had employees asked them what arguments were in place and at the highest level. A minister would have answered: I don't need logic. Doesn't count why. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon that this is a good reason for the committee's bringing this matter back to him now that this case has already been explained here, in order to let the minister represent the committee's answers as well as those words?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u87	I'm gonna answer the second question first. The answer is: Yes. To the extent possible. Of course, a minister may not be able to make such a credible and powerful argument in the conference room that he or she will be reasonably at peace with, it is reasonable that the committee would call him, especially in the light of these unjudged information. Let's assume they're correct, that the Minister has responded this way to questions from employees. That's not a good story. I can say with what. A senator that makes you a bit suspicious, if you're going to go through the matter so arrogantly that it just doesn't have to argue with it. Maybe in and out of men who can't. You don't have the professional reasoning, and you just want to make a weapon of one thing. But in fact, there's power here, so let's not forget it, huh? Senators, this will require the approval of the Generals. What should be there before a decision is made to unite an institution? asks why. Senator. I've had a few personal experiences with these things. Admittedly, a person may choose this option if there are major problems in the management of an institution, if it has been experiencing economic problems or if its goals are not met professionally or objectively. There are always two advantages. An institution may not necessarily be necessary, but it is of course necessary to take action against such conditions in the Agency or by some means. Third, there may be an ever - increasing practicality. I've seen them many times in my life. Changes in technology, new circumstances, make it possible to achieve a significant synergistic effect by, for example, uniting in some field of activity under one hat. I can give you an example of this in the company of tax collectors in the country. However, it is based on a pre-analysis that is available, and it is credible according to the remaining manuals. [[The president calls.]] This is not the case. On the contrary. Probably there is no practical basis for keeping water in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u88	Mr. President. Surely, there is no practical basis for putting your sister to the test. There's no professional argument either. The law frame around this institution is relatively recent. It was installed in 2008, if I recall correctly. It is not fully experienced in how it will be used as a basis for the Agency. The other is sure that since 2008, the journey has been improving constantly. It has been praised in all parts of the country and throughout the country. It has been sought as an example of the new words she has invented and made the focus of her work by major institutions of much larger nations, such as the one in Germany that is involved in developing cooperation. So they seek condemnation in the establishment of the Icelanders, who are active in this field. It tells its about the quality of the agency. But okay. Nothing should be sacred, and things should always be viewed. Let's be Korean. In this case, it might have been good to get eyes off to inspect the Agency. That was when the government that we had. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon was sitting in the application for participation in Iceland's behalf that the DEC Committee, OECD development team, was evaluated. That may be what part of the dispute is about now. The only evidence mentioned in a paper with the bill is that, in the opinion of the DEC Committee, there was a tip, a comment, to which it indicated that it was right to change the arrangement. It's all nonsense, a lot of people here. And even eyes outside, the eyes of a client, the American Union of Iceland, point out that this is wrong. Then you ask yourself, " What can I say about this type of work? ' A senator in his experience found some explanation as to why a person stumbles so hard at this elaborate stake? [[The president calls.]] There's no reason for this. Hv. paritaprevir Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir - when she spoke for the majority opinion and asked for an opinion on the activities of the agency - ended her praise as well. Everyone has. So, what are men doing here?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u89	Mr. President. You would think, then, that people would have some sort of new and very powerful paradox if they were to sell it to people that it is still wise to abandon this organization, put this organization down, in view of the kind of experience it has been. Is it not true that this institution was considered by the State Accounting to be a model for financial matters and the like? It has been very effective in the assessments, quality measurements within the board of directors, satisfaction with employees, etc. and that things in that town have improved? Even to the benefit of the Agency, on the basis of this relatively recent organization. In my first speech, I pointed out that it was not as if we were changing some fate. It is a relatively recent organization after much preparatory work to be done here, with no arguments. I had put my eyes into this same thing with OECD, DEC. I was very interested, like what I did. A senator may remember that we walked in there because I had otherwise dealt with OECD, i.e. as a representative of the Council of the North, on these matters. I visited OECD more than once at the time when I was on the board of the Northern Country Committee that handled these matters and always felt awkward and boring that Iceland wasn't part of the group. As a result, we were not included in the report and the comparison that always came from OECD on these matters until finally it was removed. In fact, it is so embarrassing that the report itself actually contradicts this, since it quotes positive results from the development of the present organization. So when you put a stone on it, it does not contain a stone on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u90	A respectable president. I must first begin my case by mourning the absence of the minister of foreign affairs during this discussion. I feel deeply distressed, as do others, that he is not here to listen to people's language and answer the perplexity and, in many respects, the most serious criticism that is presented on this issue. I guess there's nothing to do about it. Although the plane he brought to the country should have landed more than an hour ago at the Cheflavour Airport, the minister is not here. That, of course, is a fault. A respectable president. Questions, criticism, and doubts have been raised as to the origin of the matter and purpose. I remember having in my talk to cover 1st. Details on how unfashioned and unthinked this bill would be, especially in the light of the standards common to the people of good administrative and professional government. I considered them and still believe that by this decision, professional development is being greatly reduced and this bill becomes reality, as indicated by the evidence, I believe that the policy established in the administration of the Commission over the past few years is contrary. that the policies of lawsuits are in the hands of politicians, but the implementation and professionality of independent institutions and professionals. My doubts and many of the others who spoke in 1st. However, as described here, follow the case into a foreign - language committee, where the matter has, unfortunately, changed for the better. It was torn out of the commission without proper review of the comments and reviews that were made with reference to the subject that had been discussed at the last assembly. There have been changes in human affairs and even present causes. The head of the State Department was not on the committee at the time when the matter was discussed. In view of this, there is a natural surprising practice of walking with such a flubber for work. This is evident from the committee's list of parts of the State Department that severely criticize how the bill was conducted, feel neglected, vague, and partly based on misunderstandings. " By permission of the president, " says the committee's article in my section: ▪ There is an analysis of the problem to be solved by bringing down the European Development Research Agency (TheSSI) and bringing her project into the Ministry of State. On the contrary, the THRE has been a success and is praised for its work, including the results. from the OECD Development Committee, DEC. There is no sound evidence in the bill for the establishment of the Agency. On the contrary, it is specifically stated that the Agency has done such a good job in the field as it is, in accordance with that it is accepted, and it says that the TSSI has made many decisions on independent assessments. In this light, the Foreign Minister's bill is to decompute the Agency in a harsh way. I take my heart to these criticisms, and in the light of the good and normal administration of this step, I believe it will come back, since it can be with valid evidence that the Ministry is actually able to take on a professional part of this work, i.e. that they have the help needed to handle the work programme in the same way that has been done in the development of the European Commission for this purpose. Putting down an institution that has built up expertise and professional cooling around this important project for decades is actually a means of taking the root of evolutionary cooperation, as professionals have called attention with comments that are valid for serious consideration. Then it is interesting to see what the aims of the change are in general in the bill and what is small for what is said there. It is clear that there is no change in policy goals or practices in developing cooperation. Probable terms, such as efficiency, efficiency, coordination and synergies, are linked and discussed the reduction of successful and biphasic processes. Yet, there are no examples of any report or history of a minister of alleged biplication or indignities. It also shows that despite repeated attempts, members of the Committee were unable to give such examples to the committee meetings. Nor will it be seen that the objective of the bill is saved, since the review of the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs forum with the bill clearly shows that no legalisation of the bill has ever been expected. This falsely indicates that such goals can be achieved by this change. The Committee's list of my section highlights the fact that the European Development Agency is considered to be a model for the government and, for example, the National Reexamination of the Agency's annual accounts have repeatedly been reimbursed. Mr. President. If goals, policies, or actions are not to be changed, as mentioned in the bill, and if there is no savings, as shown in the reviews of the narratives, what are the foxes cut off to do? The only thing that will be seen to result in this is an ostentatious and unenlightened provision of funds along with the obvious risk of political pollution of an important cause. I say the risk of political pollution, and then I'll take it and call attention to what the bill says to the bill that the plan is to strengthen a link between evolutionary cooperation and other foreignities. If that were to be the case, then the diplomatic emphasis would soon cease to become part of the development team, i.e. to contribute countries are going to run developing cooperation with their own interests rather than the interests of the poor, as is actually called attention to the less part. In other words, it would be opened to integrated commercial interests in developing cooperation where development cooperation would be run under the same roof as the foreign trade policy, for example. This is absolutely at odds with what's good, political pollution to be avoided. Mr. President. This is a mistake. As the matter unfolds, there will be more and more light. No professional argument, no practical logic, no political argument either. In other words, the matter is complete and meaningless. They're taking a professional job out of the hands of an independent agency and pulling it into a political fire by the hot political bosom of the Minister under the office's ass, so I'll just speak Icelandic. The result will be indiscriminate with decision-making and the selection of tasks and the unenforcement of funds. It is a step that violates professional structure in our administration. I'm not gonna have this speech any longer, Mr. President. I believe that those who have spoken before had the same viewpoint or that similar to those who have been present in my speech. I'm sorry again to the highest. The minister of foreign affairs should not have sat here in this session and that we have to reexamine the matter to him for another time, without any personal answer to his case. As I told you in the past discussion about the President's conference board, it's kind of a abuse of power. They're laying down an institution well fired. It is defined as a model institution. It's over with a compliment, even in the bill itself. This institution is to be laid down without any benefit, becoming visible, either economic, professional, or political. The minister may have some prejudicial policy, to bring this institution into the Ministry, and this is to be done without any reasonable discussion to take place at the council in his presence. Of course, you must regret that treatment and severely rebuke it. I'm not gonna have any more words about this for now. It's like I said before nothing and nothing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u91	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a good speech and a review on this matter. For one thing, it was in her case that such policies as we are dealing with, developing cooperation, should be on the hands of the government, and the execution of professional bodies within the organisations. I'd like to underscore it a little bit more. I wholeheartedly agree that this is a setback, a serious step being taken. What about transparency? How can you see how taxpayer's funds are spent on this important group of subjects? Is it not possible that it might interfere in one way or another with other activities of the State Ministry? There is a concern about mixing in this business affairs of the Icelanders, which should not be on the move at all, and should be kept aside. This should primarily be working with these developing countries, helping them to survive. I'd like to hear a little bit more about this. It is stated in the bill's report that there is an emphasis on strengthening relationships between evolutionary cooperation and other foreignities. Counts 'em out. A senator saying that there's some kind of shadow in there so far? That there was trouble and conflict there and there were other policies in developing cooperation than in foreign affairs?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u92	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer to the senator. There has been no doubt in this case that there was no shadow, that the government's policy was in any way contradicted by a developing research organization. Of course, this has not been official in my case. That is why I find it very strange for me to talk about strengthening relationships between developing cooperation and other foreign affairs. If, as I mentioned in my talk, people want to go further, there is a danger of being mixed up with related interests and goals. One is development. Others, for example, are commercial interests in countries. It is very unhealthy if a person is going to run a team of development in some mixture or in connection with other related interests of the State. Of course, the subject is developing cooperation itself, the countries that need this assistance and cooperation. I would think it would be very unfortunate to be asking for some more intimate relationship. On the contrary, it can lead to what I call political pollution, a political contamination of the unwanted development industry. As a senator came in, I mentioned in my speech the policy taking place in this field, in a government study. The institutions, however, then implement policies and are allowed to focus on their policies. How important it is that organizations allow time to bring professional emphasis into the classes entrusted to them!
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u93	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. The success, efficiency, and success of this institution has been over and over again. There is nothing for her to report, as has been said, and it has been commended by our surveillance agencies, such as the National Accounting Agency, and others and heels in foreign and domestic fields. The report on which the decision of the foreign minister appears to be based, i.e. Also, the assessment by a former agent of the Red Cross, with full respect for that person, Þórir Guðmundsson, does not give full evidence that this is the only way. It has also called attention to the 2008 Sigurgeirsdóttir Gergeir's report on the same subject, which suggests against putting down the European Development Agency. This rush to the highest. A minister in the case today is characterized by an obsession. It has been pointed out that the experience of others is that of having an independent agency around development cooperation, such as the U.S. In Sweden, it was good. Is something, if anything. A senator with the perfect will would try to find something, which can support the perplexity of the fact that this journey is going on or is the highest. Minister on a dead end? [[The president calls.]] Can we senators of the government, who have spoken the matter, do something to draw him out of this migratory?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u94	A respectable president. Sadly, it is such a tragedy that it is not obvious that any created thing can justify this decision, especially in the whole process of pushing it through the council without a natural operation on the part of the council. Of course, it's completely precarious, and it's kind of scary to see how things are going on in this case. As we have seen many times, this institution has been a success and has been commended for its activities and practices. While certain comments are made in the report made by the representatives of the Red Cross, let us not forget what has been pointed out by some government directors, that the Red Cross is now not considered to be a completely neutral party and may have a particular interest in it. It would have been desirable, with all due respect for the Rapporteur, for administrative incompetent reasons to assign someone else to make that assessment. There have been assessments of the activities of the Agency, which require that the Agency be properly fired, well-worked, and professionally maintained on the case. As we have seen, there has been no demonstration of any financial differences, not professional differences, not political differences, but of its possibility of being there because of how this type of foreign policy is completed. In other words, it is a completely incomprehensible and very disturbing step, I would think. It is very much at the expense of professional views that this way we plan to involve the issue in a political exchange at the Ministry, where, in fact, it is quite different, but it is the matter of the case within an independent agency.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u95	A respectable president. In my previous talks, I have asked a few questions to the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee and also to the minister, but I have not yet received an answer. I would like to reiterate them and refer to my earlier words that can be found on the website and would like that to be answered. They largely involved our efforts to find ways to land the case, so there is no conflict about this important matter. I feel that in the discussion with the management staff, the few who have spoken, some people forget why we're doing this. We are doing this to help people, people who are hungry and lacking basic rights and who lack access to water. That's what it's all about. So I feel that people are very light and are somehow ready to use the tactics discussed earlier to achieve the goal of throwing such a group of people into an upset state. Therefore, I want to know why it is done in this way. I also want the vice-president of the Committee that is in charge, and the head of the Committee explained to me how they justify themselves using the kind of work that has been described here; that a deadline in the case is ended October 14, October 15, is a regular meeting time, and then it is taken into consideration, October 16 is held in the meeting of an unorthodox date and the case resolved. The chairman of the Committee comes up here and says, in my opinion, in total opposition to the council, that this is because the matter has been resolved at the last council. Well, listen to the endemity, if this starts to become the business here, a respectable president. I think they need to be taught something in the Senate because it says that a case falls between members of the council and they should be reactivated. In addition, a third of the committee's members were new, and not all the reviews sent to the Committee, which we see in the conferences. A respectable president. The work on the case is below every block. They plan to put down a developing cohesion agency, a group of lawsuits that have been large and solidly settled since the approval of the total law at Congress in 2008. And with this kind of work. It only tells me one thing, what these people are going to do. So it only goes in order to take this money into the Ministry, to cohesive them with the activities that exist there, and then slowly to escape the efforts of developing teams in time. That's the goal. It is a shame for those who are so involved. I want to ask you why. Chairman of the Committee: Is this the new industry and the new politics she has been preaching in the media interviews? There is no question that there was some kind of consultation, some form of conversation, or anyone created a thing about it. Thus, it is carried out in opposition to the council, and the rights of members of Congress are violated to address the matter in a natural way. It's a shame. I'm going to say, sir, to a respectable president, that it will follow them for a long time if this begins to become a practice of the council, the arrogance and blundering that is going on and the power's over. I thought why. paritaprevir The Kjerúlf Þorvarðardóttir Þordandóttir says it's the right word earlier. It's an abuse of power. It may be, then, that after all, the new politics were proclaimed by reason. paritaprevir Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir in a press interview. It is discovered here by the words and the deeds: men are judged of their doings, and not of their words. In other words, the practice is that it seems normal for a case to take two days on a committee. So people are fulfilling their research duties, their observations, and their reviews of complex and big subjects. A respectable president. I would like the president to review the matter carefully and then to have a word with the committee's chairman that this is not the way to work, and then take the matter off. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u96	V.E.G. President. I'm here to thank you. A senator for recording the timetable of the Committee, as I did in a meeting board earlier, which reviews the case of great criticism. On October 14, 14 or 14 days, a narrative ended, bringing in at least four envelopes. On October 15 the subject was addressed at the usual time. Then representatives of the Ministry came and reviewed the case, and of course we know the facts. They are loyal and loyal ministers of following the bill; officials in themselves are not to have opinions about what a bill is about; they answer questions about it. What I do comment on, and I thank you. A senator agreeing with this and calling attention to the fact that this is an abnormal practice. Hv. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir has been a chairman of the committee like me and I don't know about this type of work in my campaign that is actually announced by the vice president of the Committee that it's okay for the concerned guests to arrive in the morning, but that the matter will still be taken out before the guests arrive. There were workers of the Development Agency and others who arrived there. Then, on October 16, this unprecedented meeting was held at the same time that a great conference was held in Hörpa. In fact, it is disrespectful to have a meeting at that time, not during the meeting period of the Committee. But there was a hurry, and the matter was torn out of the committee. My question to why. The senator in this short answer is: Has it been? A senator got to know this kind of work in a committee job during his career?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u97	A respectable president. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. A senator for bringing this up earlier today. I think it's a pretty good way to show all the facts and the real interest in people in this regard. It was never meant to be talked to anyone about it, it was just supposed to be done. I think it was Olof Palme who said the democracy was trouble, and that's consultation, too. They may not meddle with the trouble of consulting people and doing professional work, which is also a certainty a frightening situation. This assembly, however, has done good work. Yet, while we may be criticized for much, professional practices have been involved here. Those who post reviews, those who have something to say, have come here to share their views. But that was not done in this case. With some exception, we who have been committee presidents have been able to do so if members of the Committee requested visitors to be invited to the meeting. I now sit on an environment and transport committee, and there is no exception in any language. We can also add and request further information or comments because we are members of the Council and are represented by the voters and have the right to address these matters. But in this case, the surface was not even scratched. May the women of the council who stood for this, please. paritaprevir Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir and what. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, has been ashamed of how she's been working on this case. That's not how you win, and I don't want to believe a president is gonna let this happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u98	V.E.G. President. Yeah. This is confirmed by one of the senators who has been committee chairman, that she does not recognize this kind of work. I can take an example from the last term. For a while, I was chairman of a professional trade committee, which meant that we had many cases, such as changes in fishing control systems, fishing expenditures, and a frame plan. I allow myself to state, most respectable president, that all my wishes for visitors were fulfilled. Despite the urgency of the matter, however, this was done. I have to reiterate once more that I've never known it in the committees I've been working on as it's done here. There is no excuse for a second appointment. This is where it turns out. paritaprevir The first time Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir was to take over a commission on the Foreign Affairs and two other members were there, so a third of the committee is new, making it possible for humans to want to talk things over in a more reasonable way. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson, came in, if I recall correctly, as a replacement when the case was torn out at that meeting. He honors us with his presence in the chamber during this discussion, but I doubt that he has received all the information presented in the reviews. Of course, people can read them and all that, but I agree with them. Kjerúlf And it came to pass before Þorvarðardóttir, that it was an abuse of power. I allow me to state that a majority of the committees were ordered by the administrative committee to complete the case as soon as possible and take it from the committee to the Congress Hall. [[The president calls.]] This is the only priority of the Minister. [[The president calls.]] That's a case of No. 91, that's not No. 2, 3, 4 or 5, and there's so much to it. It also mixes with that as well. A senator mentioned earlier, which I call the Minister's disproportionateness against this institution, to capture the operation and funding it brings into the Ministry. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u99	A respectable president. Yeah, I can say whatever's wrong. A senator said. I challenge it. paritaprevir Þorstein Sæmundsson to come here for a speech and tell me that he feels that the deadline is complete on 14th of October and that October 15 is announced to be an unscheduled committee, but first the lesser part of the committee is offended that day because it is only completely unnatural to do this in this way, when a meeting of an unorthodox meeting period the following day breaks out with the help of the members of the committee. It's below all the caves. I hope so. paritaprevir It's Sæmundsson's stone, huh? paritaprevir Shira Dögg Gunnarsdóttir and who. paritaprevir Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir would come in for a speech chair and explain why these pathetic tactics were used in this case. What causes humans to decide to drive this delicate subject through? This is not the kind of thing you're familiar with, and if it's a new strategy for the new senators of the Agency, it's a new way of managing things. paritaprevir Birna Kristjánsdóttir's daughter, I don't want to see it because this is not how we work here. There is a need for professional coverage, that is, if Congress requests visitors, and that is to be investigated, or at least to show that humans have scratched the surface. You cannot say that the reason is that it is all right to work this way because the matter has been discussed at the council before, as the head of the committee did earlier. Why do matters fall apart? This happens if, as in this case, one third of the committees is new, you can handle the case properly and do your part in the matter. Yeah, I'm sure this is a scary situation, and I'm sorry to have to consult with all these people. [[The president calls.]] But that's just how it is, that's what we're elected to do, and that's how we're supposed to work, and that's what we're supposed to follow. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u100	Mr. President. I'd like to agree with that as a dog. In his talk about the process, a senator said. Of course, they are well - thought - out. There is much to consider in the material that may have to do with the situation. Today, the matter of Congress and Congress is not necessarily the same. This is a bill that has been discovered to be based on very high reasoning and, in fact, not reasoning, but statements in a report that are somewhat unconvinced. It's only lulled out to this and the other to be so good, co-ordination and integration, without suggesting what it's supposed to be. Well, that would have been hard research, wouldn't it? When that is the case, the Parliament's committee is to review matters better, put them in the stitches, and try to put together a solid argument if they are found. The majority of the contributions to the case should be filled with the gaps that follow the case on the part of the minister or as a administrative bill if he wants to do his job well and then try to convince the rest of us that there is such an increase in the matter as a result of good material reasoning. Timeline as hell. A judge's explanation suggests that in the first November of the month, in no uncertain terms according to the circumstances, it is torn out of the committee on such a poor basis as it really is. The fact that the matter has been presented last year does not necessarily make any particular subject for the Senate discussion of this council, when it becomes clear that the matter is very controversial. Now I don't remember exactly where it ran off last year, but it's clear that it's not a simple matter of solidarity. It may be said that if the Council does not gain the time to complete a release on undisputed matter, it will simplify its treatment at the next assembly, but it does not apply to this matter. [[The president calls.]] Then, in my second answer, I'm going to step in on what I also believe to be a major work error, and it's that this meeting is still being held, and the discussion is held, without an argument at the highest level. Secretary of state. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u101	A respectable president. I appreciate that answer. I mentioned earlier that I feel like people forget about the projects they have been assigned to develop a team. We have decided that we need help. Why? There is no access to food, there is no access to water, about 25% of children die before they are five years old. This is where we and a developing cohesion agency are working on relief efforts. It is in these circumstances that we do our part, and it has not been divided. In 2008, we made a collective total law of the council on this case party. The present administrative body now decided to blow up the parapolitics, with no small tactics, new politics, new policy of the Agency, new policy of independence practices, and especially the driving force. paritaprevir Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir's daughter, who has been speaking for many years for new politics. Words need to be followed. What's the new business like? They're just like they're described. What are the consequences of bringing down the development organization? We've considered it here on a long matter. There's a lot of work to be done and monitored. They are taking on a work that is extremely specialized, requiring a great deal of professional knowledge and turning it into other services at the Ministry. What they would say, e.g. Yeah. paritaprevir Þorsteinn Sæmundsson, if it should be accepted into the State Department of State? It's perfectly comparable. [[Up front.]] A respectable president. This requires special knowledge and the way humans act on this matter. It shows that they do not have a dog's eye on the case or do not care about it at all. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u102	Mr. President. I believe this discussion also has a purpose, such as why. A senator, brings up the nature of the subject. This is a very sensitive group of subjects. It is of great importance that even if there are differences in the amount of money that people rely on at any given time to spend on it, there is another trust and an attempt to preserve a parapolitic solidarity on how things are being handled. It's been done most of the time. I can say that I have often been very angry about how sad Iceland has been in these matters, how late it has been to reach the percentage of national income after we became one of the best - begotten nations in the world. In spite of this and that disagreement, however, it was always possible for the last two or three decades to stick together in the organization and in the construction process. One way was by making sure that in the management of the Development Agency, representatives of all classes were always represented. The thought was to link all classes to this subject. Of course, there is a disagreement about what the present government is contributing in this regard. We have criticized that it has abandoned plans to increase the proportion of people despite the better economic conditions, but it still matters that we agree on the amount of money spent on the market at any given time. I also believe that it is most reprehensible. A minister would take note of a conflict of ambition over the government's ambitions in the subject as such - the government does not even have its own original plans to bring it up, it has been cut down now into budgets and budgetaries - additioning differences about the fundamental structure. The government is sickening this suit. It is ruining the solidarity that has been attempted to sustain this delicate subject. That, of course, is reprehensible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u103	A respectable president. I totally agree with what. A senator who is being read this party. I think those who do this by driving matters like this in a lot of opposition are doing it because they don't care, because they don't think it's a case that matters. That may be the difference between us and the fact that the people who accept this development help are important to us, the matter matters to us. A respectable president. Right away. paritaprevir Sæmundsson called here to the moment, under my speech, that it would not be comparable if the road was taken into the State Department of State - it shows that it was a problem. A senator does not know what is going on in the development community. The work there is extremely special, like what is going on in Vega. This is extremely specialized and delicate. These specialized activities cannot be compared to anything else. This is a field of professions requiring great expertise, and considering that there is something less or less minor than any other government operation tells me all that needs to be said about the attitude of candidates on these matters. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] Whatever it is. A senator is telling me and all of us how slight they look at evolutionary cooperation. That's what I'm sorry about. If they looked at all of this professionally and practitionyly, they would not do this because, first of all, the Government Accounting has been a multitasking that it is a model organization that always passes the budget, and secondly, it should not be done and monitored as it is being done. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u104	Mr. President. According to the news we had of the minister's travel, it is now two hours later. There's a minister down at Cheflavík and he won't be let down here. How is this to be understood? I'm going to the top. A minister who says to ignore completely all the facts and gives evidence that he will attend the council, stand for his case, and answer questions? The Minister has no excuse now. He's not at Ásafjörður. He's not in a sheep's jar. He's back in the country. He has accepted his duties, and unless he is unable for some reason to attend the council, he is required to do so. Enough is enough, Mr. President. If it is so that the minister is not coming, there is just one thing to do, that is to postpone the discussion and make it clear to the minister that it will not be moved until he is in the conference room, not moved. I'm beginning to think it's quite enough, a respectable president, how much. A minister has acted on this matter. It's not the situation, but the Congress must not feel that it is handled in this way. It is a matter of respect for all of us in the country who would like Congress not to let this happen over us. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'll start making very serious comments to the President, whoever it will be on a chair, if you want to continue this way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u105	A respectable president. I have to agree with what. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon and amazed at the fact that the minister has not yet arrived. He couldn't have stayed in the Free Harbor on his way through the terminal to explain his absence in the council halls. I traced it earlier that I was about to give my first talk in this language. Nothing has been done with any of the indications or comments I made when it was delivered at the last council in its reimbursement today. I don't think it's the best place to have a word about it at the top. A minister and someone to hear from the minister why these comments have not been made. It gave detailed evidence of this and referred to the prehistoric management of the development community, why the legislation would be the way it is today. It is simply impossible to offer us the opportunity to speak here in empty when it comes to the administrative matter. [[The president calls.]] He must reason with the smaller parts of the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u106	A respectable president. I would like the president to meet with members of the council members on the Committee's work ethic in this case. I would like to get answers from the president whether he thinks it is reasonable for a trial to end a deadline, the next day being announced to take the matter out, though it is a day off and taken over at an unconventional time to rip it out without a discussion, and without so little listening to any members of the committee who would like to have further visitors. It's not okay, Mr. Honorable President. I want an investigation and a check on what's behind it. I'd like to hear a president's attitude on this case. To me, it's not okay, and to all of us senators who are smaller than we are, it's not okay because we have the right to address the subject normally. Taking two days to do it and the way it was done is unnatural. [[The president calls.]] If these are new politics, which are pronounced by reason. paritaprevir Birna Kristjánsdóttir's daughter, I'll say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u107	A respectable president. I agree with what. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir. I think it's true that the president interrupts the meeting and gathers with the council groups because it is important that the word of the President of Generalis succeeds and can be trusted with the words he puts forth, both by the President and also by meetings of members of the council. It was revealed as discussed earlier today to the highest level. The minister of state could not get to the discussion until he arrived in the country, between four and five o'clock today. Now it's 5:00, she's getting half-six, and there's nothing to eat at the top. Secretary of state. It must be explained why this does not work, why these words don't hold, because people have to be able to organize their work from what has been said to a meeting of the presidents of Congress and what the presidents have reported on the chair.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u108	A respectable president. This is an intolerable situation that has come up here. We now face the obvious challenge. The minister ignores the council for such an experience, I am eager to say that it will remain for many years. First, he prefers more than his election to fladra for the countryside to talk to the candidates. After that, he is a foreign official. When will he be in charge of the Council? Are the words of the Senate worthless? The chairman of the council here tells us that the minister will come to us on this matter - and what happens? He's not coming. I'm beginning to agree, sir, that it is time to have a meeting on the Committee to Presidency, and we need to consult here with the minister of the ríkisstjórn of Sigmundur, the Davíð of David Gunsen, with the General Assembly of the Icelanders. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This has become far more serious than the fact that it is just a matter of development as well as this particular minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u109	Mr. President. Of course, this has become a serious disrespect to the council, i.e. how to get it to the highest. Secretary of state will deal with that. They say it's what you believe in at the highest. President that a foreign minister would return after coming from a foreign country. Of course, he is very much there in the name of his office, and he is so elegance about its district between the two to meet his candidates. But what is the cause that he has not yet arrived? I was going to try to be positive, and I thought, " Maybe the minister's car has exploded, maybe that might explain, and we could show some understanding. ' But that message hasn't come. What's happening? I'd like to say once again, with members of the Parliament, we can't feel this disrespect anymore at the council. [[The president calls.]] I think it's the highest. The prime committee should meet, and it must be given to the highest. Minister for this matter. [[The president calls.]] It's very serious.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u110	Mr. President. I think it's kind of a pain in the ass that we're talking about the absence of a minister. It was before the beginning of this discussion that he should be in a house and he's not here. I think it's really embarrassing on the tip of the day. President to continue this discussion. It would be almost a recession at a meeting and then review it later, such as the rest of the year. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir told earlier how the Commission's relationship with the European Commission is handled with the legislature. It is unacceptable that members of Congress are in position to complete a key discussion of the matter without even the highest authority. There's a minister on the spot. It's also completely unacceptable that plans have been made. It's sort of unacceptable, Mr. President, that this is the case at a councilroom. It will not increase the respect of the council. I reiterate my proposal from earlier today, Mr. President, that there is a recess until it is time for a minister to be in the hall. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Then you can have a proper place to speak at the highest level. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u111	A respectable president. I need to ask you if there's a political crisis between Generals and Ministers and Advisor. Why are we here if we can't even get the information that a minister has according to our good habits when we ask for it? I asked the highest. However, when this matter was first taken on the program, a minister of foreign ministers did not answer them. I know that, according to the best habits, although it has not been legalized, a minister should give us the information that the council requires and now he does not. He's not here. He's not answering for his case. His men are not responding. I have to ask the highest. If he's not here to settle matters, is he not in favor of a minister's legal violation?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u112	A respectable president. Then all the trees of the forest will fall to the ground when I come up in the past for President's conference board. I have not done this before in the 2 - and - a - half - year assembly, but I am now forced to do so because it was presented in the public talk. þm. Katrín Juliusdóttir that the matter had received some special treatment on the Foreign Affairs Committee. [[Up front.]] Not at all. There was a deadline. All those who gave a review came before the committee. Those who were asked to be called to the committee, and I believe that the trial was normal and no pressure was applied. So let's not be wearing it on the committee's form or on the greater part of the Committee that some of the pressure has been applied here. I'm a member of the Committee on those matters, of the majority. A respectable president. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u113	A respectable president. It is uncomfortable for humans to come up here in a talk chair and argue for the facts. During this council, the 145th legislature, the rest of this matter has not been discussed, nor has it been. The head of the Foreign Affairs Committee is new to the Commission and has completely new in the matter of the Council of 145th, which began in the fall. There has been no discussion of the subject, i.e. The review of the matter, at this council. That's what's being criticized here. But I agree with that, a respected president that this absence of the minister has become so disrespectful to this scene, the Allied Council of Iceland, a common ground, that it will not be avoided by a prime committee meeting and reviewing the procedure when ten members of the Parliament call for a minister's office to give the motive. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u114	Mr. President. This is not just some unique remote being of the highest order. Minister longer. This has become a princely affair. This has become a basic question as to whether the Council will be invited day after day and week after week to ignore it in this way. The Communicator Generalis is on the move. We senators are to stand together at such times regardless of government or government opposition. Someone has to pick up the matter for the council at such times. It is most disturbing to continue this discussion until the foreign minister is in the hall. This is an excellent opportunity, and it is an opportunity to teach the stewards manners if they do not know them. This meeting is to be terminated and to inform the minister that this matter will not be moved until the minister is in the room, unless, of course, he is to carry out his duties as all are expected to do unless they have a legitimate pasturage. In the past, counselors have been taught manners in such situations. In the spring, an unnamed minister was not satisfied because he had committed bullying and disrespectful conduct to the Allied Council. [[The president calls.]] Of course, I'm not gonna name him. But I know this story very well, Mr. President. Then the General stood on his feet. Then, on the contrary, they stood on the front lines of government and government opposition and promoted the local minister. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u115	A respectable president. Here we go. paritaprevir Will Bjarnason, upstairs, says that everything was normal. The case went through the committee in a totally natural way, no force, and no overwork. Why don't we read the meeting from October 15th, the day after the issue was over? It says, by permission of the president: ▪ The Proppé, Árnadóttir Turnar, Áranna, and Össur, the son of Skarphéðinsson, made a written request, with reference to Article 15. Congress, to announce a new meeting on the subject, and specified guests would be called in. The chairman responded and also announced that the matter would be settled at that meeting. They were the trades, the dignified president, booked, and documented in the General meetings. Is this the work we would like to adopt, that the day after reviewing a case, they are torn out of the committee or proclaimed that it will be done? [[The president calls.]] You know, it's just a scary thing to have to listen to some kind of boring thing, people who might have some professional knowledge of things, but when you do, you'll have to know that they're on the inside. General. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u116	V.E.G. President. Suddenly, one of the members of the Independence Party came, please. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, was prepared to speak for Presidential Conference and spoke up. Today, members of the Independence Party who have participated in this discussion have increased by 100%. The head of the committee for ten minutes reading the committee's opinion and reason. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason for one minute on the President's conference board to describe how this was on the committee. A respectable president. I'm gonna do it again and thank you. A senator listening to my case. These are perfectly unusual practices of the committee, and a young and inexperienced senator who is here to serve here in the next few years is not to be offered such work. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] It's a disgrace.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u117	The Senator is wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u118	It's a monster. I challenge it. A senator to come here and explain more fully how this occurred on the committee and think about these two days, October 15, and 16 of what it was like to break out. [[The president calls.]] However, the problem must be said. A senator commends that he is warning the matter and is one of the few who dares to express his views on this evil case, which is to be run through by a temporary minister. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u119	A respectable president. The Synod's terms for terms of action and the need to be reexamined are designed to improve their effectiveness. It is a good minister's custom to accept a revised case in terms of what was being done during previous discussions, to try a report, for example, to answer the comments presented during discussions and in terms of memory, to review these comments in advance, and to make sure that they are answered and presented in the report. There's nothing to do. No attempt is made in the report to attend or answer the comments made during the discussion and treatment of the case at the council at the last assembly. And not in the majority view, for the natural process was that there was no time for any creation to take place there. It is this disrespect for the council and the Senate and the right course for the council, which is unacceptable and unacceptable. [[The president calls.]] It has to be necessary that a minister who does not have a legitimate pastime today, who does not have a list of alibis today, come to the council. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u120	Mr. President. I think that's what. paritaprevir Will Bjarnason is here on a talk chair and accepts that something has memorized him when he was tracking the scene earlier. This is what has been read here from a meeting by the Foreign Affairs Committee, where it is very clear. We needed a special shelter. Section 15. Congress to get a share of the guests we wanted to meet with the committee, so we're clear. Just think about it before that too. A senator who may not have been at that meeting invited to agree that there will be two meetings and that the matter will be concluded. It was refused. We then offered one meeting back the weekend, that's also rejected, just so it's perfectly clear. This may not be important. Today, the issue is that the reviews made claims that there are wrong in a report and that we need a place to speak at the highest level. Minister on that. Would it not be possible to resolve this issue simply by postponing a meeting until the highest point? Minister will come? [[The president calls.]] Maybe he's not ready for death. He may be tired of his travels. Understandably, he wants to lean his head at home before coming to the council. [[The president calls.]] But is it not proper to postpone this discussion until it is rested? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u121	Mr. President. I'd like to agree with the words of the last speaker, which I don't often do but sometimes do, and I'll do it from now on. I think it's the best. The president owes the council an explanation. We live in a technology age, and we can communicate with a minister by texting and by calling him and tracking him down. V.E.G. It seems that a minister does not see a reason to explain why he is so late. I also feel that it is so disrespectful to us senators that a minister does not at least try to find any excuse for not being able to come. The question is, will we accept it or not? That is another matter. But to show us the complete disrespect in this important discussion that we do not come to the council and take the discussion with members of the council who are shamed. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to finally retract my comments about the fact that I don't agree with it. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson, except in very rare cases, I do it very often, only in my heart.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u122	V.E.G. President. What I want to ask you is why. Senators Þorsteinn Sæmundsson or Vilhjálmur Bjarnason. paritaprevir And the chairman of the committee, is, What did ASI say, which is a reviewer of the matter, and sent forth a very good report of the matter, and do these concerns as do other things among our little brothers and sisters? What did the ASI representatives say about the matter at the meeting? Well, maybe. paritaprevir Sourstein Sæmundsson, because he is often involved in the discussion of the President's conference board, these minutes that we are provided for the Senate operation by coming after me and telling us members of Congress what Iceland's Public Association said at the meeting? A respectable president. I'll shorten it to the point. A senator will be here on the platform because representatives of ASI were not allowed to attend the meeting and were never called in. Here's what we've got. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Aphédinsson, a member of the State Department of State, described how they wanted to meet the greater part with two meetings and a meeting after the weekend, except for the dollar that it is to have held this meeting on a planned Friday when the big conference was in Hörk on Climate and other things, which are very important to us. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Of course, holding a meeting of the State Department at the same time is a scandal. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u123	Mr. President. Everyone makes mistakes, and I think that's what. A senator, president of the State Department, made a mistake, but they teach us from them. I believe, though, that they were not as bad as a mistake. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir's daughter when she led a meeting in her absence the next day, where it was clear that her knees were going to follow her abdomen. But just to review the facts before then. paritaprevir However, at the meeting held at the end of the hearing at that hearing at that same meeting, Vilhjálmur Bjarnason declared to the head of the State Department of State forum that her plans were to take the case out of the same meeting. In other words, one meeting was to be held. It was only after members of the government resistance in the force of Congress could point out that they had the right to call a man to a meeting if a written request was made. But at the next meeting, it was thought that there had been some special custom and conduct on our part. [[The president calls.]] Of course not! We had this shelter, we used it. [[The president calls.]] We might have gone the same way to insist on getting all the people we wanted, but we attempted an agreement. This is not today's main issue, however, but that we need a place to speak at the highest level. Minister on certain matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u124	A respectable president. I would like to express my surprise that a meeting is held when the event was announced for the program of the meeting by the President of the Generals, i.e. to the maximum. The minister of state would be at the meeting between 4:00 and five, has not followed. Then it must be normal to interrupt the meeting and assemble the council meeting with the clear manner in which it is being carried out and to make other plans for the continuation of the matter. It is not so easy to make this situation easier on the foreign matter committee and perhaps just to ask why. paritaprevir Sourstein Sæmundsson because I know he's here for the discussion, if he can't see it, at least In the rearview mirror, a representative of the Council of Prime Ministers, that in what way he and the administrative body stood by that the release of the case on the State Department has not only been compromised by the case but also greatly corrupted by the council's activities during this fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u125	President. It's almost six o'clock now. The first president of the council assumed to be the highest. The minister of foreign affairs would be at the discussion. The Minister won't let anything happen. I'd like to say that I believe that the situation has become so serious that this performance is at its height. The minister of Gunnar Bragi, the son of Sveinsson, is a wreck of all communications with the government of Sigmundur, Davíð, son of Gunnlaugsson. Then I'm talking about dealing with every Minister of the government. It is not that here we are discussing one particular matter, and one specific minister, as it may be considered isolated, when the conduct is so slighted at the Council of the Council, and clearly that neither the prime minister nor the president of the council have any opportunity to bring it in a proper direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u126	A respectable president. I'd like to go here a few words about this bill that's here for 2nd. Frankly, it is difficult to decide where you will begin with the discussion. I would like to start by saying, though, that during this term, there has been a serious failure to say that there is some general procedure at the council in the way ministers come to a material discussion at the council. This has happened over and over in controversies during the council. During the last term, the principle was held in honor, and I believe in the terms of the season before, and now I'm just doing a trace of the time I've been in the Council, that ministers were exceptionally in discussion if desired. Always around 1st. Of course, they are responsible for the case, its carriers, but also at the 2nd and 3rd. ... itwaswanted. Over the years, ministers have been controversies for days and nights long and under discussions and have had a place to speak with those who have wanted to discuss matters, often for a long time. Speaking from personal experience, often as a minister, one has experienced that it was not all too meaningful to talk about. However, it is a basic minister's duty to settle matters and defend the issues he presents for the council. This is not now, and I don't think a prime committee has to record this and set some basic lines in this subject and when a case is simply taken off or closed if a minister does not trust to sit next to it. I remember that timer being the highest. President Ásta Ragnheiður, daughter of Jóhannesdóttir, had a big word with the Minister at the time that if they didn't trust themselves to sit down, she would take them off the program because she saw no purpose in continuing matters in a discussion if ministers were not prepared to sit in for answers and defend their case. In a speech given to me on this subject during the last assembly, I was deeply concerned about these changes. I traced it to the vice president of the State Department when the law was given in 2008 as well as when the Law was changed in 2012. So I have placed in two more administrative areas all the way into the legislature that is now available to change. I find it very sobering to think of all the points I used in my speech during the last session that do not take place anywhere, either in the bill or in the majority opinion of the case, that these comments are taken into consideration or that I try to answer them in any way. So I'm going to review these points, remind me of them. First, I reminded you that when the 2008 law was set on international development, there was a general framework for the political policies and the evidence that this is a growing category of issues and that there was going to be a tremendous amount of money and political policy to be made clear both that a minister was running policy and that the council came to the policy. Today, we spend about 5 billion in the field of development, and many do not appreciate it enough. It must be ensured that the General will have a clear approach to policy development. The bill says it's getting weaker. The Parliament is being changed to the Agency's administration in order that five members of the Parliament are now being assigned to a development committee. What five? There are six members of the General Assembly. You want to vote a percentage vote? Three/two? How do you pick these five? Is it, then, that groups of members of Congress are not to be allowed to come up with strategy for developing cooperation? Why? Is it not your goal to build a parapolitic solidarity? I think I'm going to have to think back, because of the way the government is holding this matter, how we held it in 2008 and 2012 in two different government areas. Both times, a broad transverse solidarity was sought for laws. I was vice president of the 2008 State Department. Secretary of finance, Bjarni Benediktsson, was chairman of the Committee. We made a deal with the government and its leaders for the changes in the case, which made the government's opposition ready to handle the situation. I had a long meeting with a member of the Organization at the time and a member of the Left Green and we reached a common conclusion because we thought it was very important that all classes should be involved in the management of the Agency and all should share in the policy of developing cooperation. It is amazing to see this group of stereochromes that is taking place today, totally without need, and without any evidence to support it. I also paraphrased in the previous year that an independent agency was being submitted to the Ministry. It is particularly paradox in which there is an institution in a very special field of trade and, of course, the government has not established a general policy of putting down independent trade institutions. On the contrary. One of the few primes of the government - and now it's at the top. A minister of the hall, and a special reason to welcome the long - awaited lost sheep here. On behalf of the government, the last council was given a bill adopted for a new National Education Institute, where certain government-based policy projects were brought to an independent agency. But, at the same time, we're importing an independent agency into the Ministry. You either want a ministry or a ministry policy, but it's incredibly strange that at one of the department's agencies, it's being moved out of the Ministry, and even a goal, but the Ministry is moving a project into the Ministry. You must ask yourself, " Where will this end? ' I'm going to the top. Secretary of finance taking over the role of the government of the IRS and just import it into the Ministry? Here we noted how the road could then become part of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and so on. The forward call asked him why. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson whether it was our position to present a question mark on this trend that there was no professionality in the Ministry of State. Far from it. The Ministry of State is working very professionally, but what the Development Organization does is a specific activity that would become part of a global foreign service. The countries that have taken the way of bringing the development team into the Ministry are far larger than we are, have the opportunity to have a much higher level of expertise in employees who can devote themselves to developing and caring for more and less for all their careers. It has been a failure of the Icelandic foreign service to do so, and it is a major interracial arrangement for employees in general. This may be an option, but of course, it has an advantage. Of course, when it comes to complex and specialized litigation groups, such as developing cooperation, questions require whether it is proper to introduce it into the foreign - language transport system. These points are not discussed, either in the report or in the opinion of the greater portion. There is no basis for this danger and the criticism presented in this regard. In the comments I made last year, I also wondered how men were going to establish a staff program for the Development Agency within the framework of the laws of the rights and duties of the personnel of the state. The 2008 Convention on International Development and Development at its time provided special regulations because it stated that it would not be ideal for the Agency to be very limited to all personnel but that it would have to be able to recruit staff for a given period of time. It is not simple to see in what way that flexibility should exist within the regulation on the rights and duties of the personnel of the State and to ask whether it is as simple to recruit employees in one country to five years of age without any further rights if it is in itself that the staff is going to the Ministry rather than to an institution of particulars. I asked for a discussion about this. There is no consideration of this finding anywhere. There has been no consideration of the viewpoint in this regard. I traced the earlier reduction of members of the Parliament, and it is very special that a bill is provided that, in effect, some panels are being dissuaded into litigation policies that have been generally agreed on as to whether they should govern cross-continent and cohesion. One of the things OECD development committee emphasized over and over again when we discussed it in 2012, as well as the assessment of the importance of political surveillance. The system was, before the law was set up in 2008, in effect, that of the same Senate government for management and control. We thought that it was important to separate these factors and part of the ideologies behind the 2008 and 2012 legislation change was that the Council would come to the strategy with the Minister and put the emphasis on it, but it would also be a Senate check on the economy. It is very strange to see how unprovoked this bill's monitoring factor is. He was beat up last year, too. I drew attention to them in pars 8th. According to the bill, the government's policy on global development cooperation, as it does 5. g., should be subject to regular follow-up and assessment by an independent person. Period. One report states: ▪ The glass does not need explanation. Period. Wait, where's the surveillance? Who will monitor the expenses of a government fund of up to 5 billion a year? Independent. The article does not need an explanation. Unbelievably large sums of money are being set aside, and there is no room for supervision on how they are arranged. The counseling of the DEC, the OECD Development Committee, has been that this responsibility must be met by the council. A financial committee might do this, a foreign matter committee could do this, or a member of the Parliament could do this. Of course, the council should oversee these financial responsibilities and their arrangements, as well as all other government funds. Here, a minister of state in the bill offers a proposal that includes the transfer of this spending group, the implementation of his field, the entry into the Ministry, not to an independent agency that would submit special surveillance, but to the Ministry, but to his provision for the financial contributions, not to provide any legal check. It may be counter-referred from this requirement that this procedure should not apply to the traditional legislation of the environment, where National Reunion is assigned to monitor the economy. While the State Department's Accounting is generally seen with regard to the cost of the State Department, only some independent member should oversee the surveillance of these enormous expenses. I made a note with this last year. Not a comment on how these monitoring factors could be implemented. Not a word in the fast - watered majority wing of the State Department. I find it somewhat odd in view of the debate that was held in the State Department in 2012 by the OECD Development Committee that men think of making legislative changes that take the council completely out of control of the provision of budgets, and allowing the management environment to be controlled otherwise on the basis of the Ministry's budget not applicable for the provision of these funds. To be honest, it's very serious that this is the way the bill is presented. I would have thought it normal to have been taken into account in this respect of comment and considered different benefits in the surveillance program. I would naturally believe that it was guaranteed that the council would come to a check on the project and that it was written into the law, for it is simply so that the council should supervise the arrangements of these resources, such as everyone else. It's a direct policy of the OECD Development Committee. It is most striking that such laws are organized from the law. I traced this into my case at the last council when the bill was then discussed that there is evidence to include evolutionary cooperation in the Ministry. There is evidence to support the development of an independent organisation. Some of our neighbors have made it their way of bringing evolution into the Ministry. But it does matter how it is done, how the legal equipment is correct, and how the sheep are handled properly. There may also be other viewpoints here, but in other countries simply through human birth in the foreign service in general and because a special institution is more suitable to perform such tasks in a non-large country than Iceland. The problem with your bill is that you don't rely on the reasoning. The bill doesn't have any ideas like that. I would have thought, based on the fate of the case at last council, that it would have been worth the trip of the Ministry to take a spin on the bill and to look for ways, to change the report, and specific guidelines directly to meet these comments. My comments are well expressed. They are based on material work in developing cooperation from 2008 onward. They are based on all the best counsel we have received. It's funny that the Ministry doesn't respect a person's opinion or share of the Senate committee's body doesn't respect you when it comes to a good sense of material thinking about things that need to be considered better and that no attempt is made to reinvent the case to answer the material criticism of this kind once again. I want to say that last thing I find is the news that you are hearing in the discussion about how their treatment and working on it on the Foreign Affairs Committee is not exemplary. I haven't been at a council for a very long time, but since 2007. I've served in more administrative parts with most classes here at the council. Or not most of them, I haven't been in more of the advance group, that's right. But I never remember the presence of the committees in charge of material discussions about issues or visitors. On the contrary, it has been the main member of all groups of committees that I have seen to put forth effort to meet all views of visitors during the conference treatment. I feel that no one is willing to make some less important baptism in putting it aside for an important matter, such as this, by denying visitors just to create a wolf's voice and differences.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u127	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. An interesting point was made there. I and others have felt that such an act would lead to an evil government. The Allied Research Committee, set up after the collapse, published reports on better management techniques, a total of nine volumes, on the consequences of the crash, and on how the council, the management department, and the Commission could improve their practice. Separating policies, implementation and monitoring would be part of what we need to look to and honor. With its bill, it's the highest. Ministers to walk contrary to those views, such as that. In his speech, a senator made an excellent contribution. There's a lot of money, just as it was also brought on. The last government's policy was to produce 0.7% of GDP for future development, as suggested by the United Nations. Now it's got the highest. A minister backs up his previous plans from earlier this year to say that the results from 0.23% to 0.21% of GDP. See what? A senator insists that these enormous resources can be kept under clear control, that there is not a conflict between what is being done in the foreign service? We have also brought this discussion to mind that the Ministry of 2013 was well cut down. [[The president calls.]] Is this what they're dealing with?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u128	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's question. I believe there are some professional talks at the State Department to help with this suit. It's important to stress it. It would be possible to find practitional solutions to the complexity that arise from not having an independent institution anymore. However, it would not be wise to make a special provision to make sure that there should be some kind of supervision of the arrangements for these funds. At the same time, there is a general law in the country that National Reconnaissance will oversee the budgets and, therefore, plan. This is a special rule that will go further, and it is likely that the benefits can be concluded that it should not be observed by the National Review Committee. There is, of course, the danger that I feel is caused. A senator is saying that money will then be grafted together, and the funds we are going to go to development cooperation will be carried out on tasks that are more physically similar to other operations at the Ministry. Of course, they need to be careful that this does not happen. They also need to make sure that developing cooperation is actually going to the projects they are told are going to do. There is a well - known example in this series of cases that money does not return. There may be many forms of corruption in connection with their distribution. There are times when the projects to be made have never existed, or at least not in the way it was supposed to be, nor did the financial resources that were supposed to have come to them have not. To protect yourself against that danger, a powerful surveillance system is needed. I think that in the history of Western development in recent years, there has never been such an unsolved arrangement for monitoring as much money as there is. There's no reason to have the law that unsolvable. [[The president calls.]] It must be possible to determine who these independent people are to be on this watch and to put it in a song text. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u129	Mr. President. I think very much about how we can keep our hands on the goal of expanding our contribution to development. Lately, this work has been in a special facility, but now it will be held at the Ministry. Could it not be that more projects on the edge that have not previously fallen under development cooperation in poorer countries will be encouraged by that hat? There's something I'm afraid of being able to happen, i.e. that the classification will be blurred in these subjects. How, then, will these matters be kept in check? It's very omniscient how to monitor it, like the dog. A senator came in. V.E.G. The minister of the State owes us the answer when he will give us the great privilege of coming to the council and carrying out his duties and being present for the discussion. Then I expect him to take part in the discussion and answer the various questions that have been raised, and I know that he has studied. I'd like to discuss only a review from the head of the Development Agency last year. It requested a response to the report by the son of Þórir Guðmundsson, that this project should not be completed until the President's opinion of Kingdom Review and the proposal for organizational changes that a minister might want to consider further in order to get a professional opinion of how well such suggestions fell to modern thought of good administration in Iceland. It also says that it might be considered to seek the opinion of experts in the government of the university community. Counts 'em out. A senator who has followed that request and is recommended in the review of the Director of Developmental Cooperation and believes that he is right to listen to a professional proposal from him?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u130	A respectable president. About the first question why. In itself, I am not so worried that men will use their cooperation with the State Department to finance something that does not depend on international development cooperation. I think there's a sincere will in the State Department to pursue the definitions of the OECD Development Committee, which has a precise definition of which function. However, it is more risky that no surveillance system is implemented. About the second question why. I see no evidence that the director of the Agency's observation has been made to seek counsel from the National Reconnaissance or university experts on the implementation of such a surveillance system. I can't believe the law doesn't export the surveillance system. With all this money, you can find a friend who has a good company to advise. Is it possible to negotiate with Capacent or someone else to do this? I'm not gonna throw down Capacent, but does that business have any knowledge of financial income? Is there anything you can do to negotiate with anyone? The Eyþór Arnaldur was agreed on the assessment of the State Radio. Is this really open? Who is the independent party? Can we just negotiate with anyone? Why are there no minimum demands on what an independent party needs to meet, at least to be recognized by Government Accounting? If all the money is being dropped into the State Department, why is that being excluded from the National Reconnaissance Board? Would it not be easier to see that a Government Accounting supervises all of this? At the same time, it is an institution that is subject to the council, and that would be possible in some way with the views I have been putting up with.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u131	President. I want here on the third day, when we're in the second. to present with the decomposition of the European Development Agency, to welcome you to the U.S. Assembly Hall. The minister of the state of Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson. We have repeatedly requested that he be here at the discussion. I'd like to see the president that he would step up to the speaker's file so that the Minister could step in on it rather than down so that he could have a word with us senators on the matter. That's what we wanted. That's why we asked for the highest power. A minister here at the council Hall was not that we wanted him to sit here and care for other tasks, but that he actively participated in the discussion. He did not do that to 1st. But sitting here all the time closed the discussion with twists and answered no questions asked. I would very strongly request that the highest. A minister may leave so little to have in conversation with me and the senators on the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u132	A respectable president. I want to agree with what. paritaprevir Svandís's Svavarsdóttir, in this respect. I think it would be very good if it were the highest. A minister would be involved in the discussion. Here I traced many of my concerns and comments that have not been tried to comment on the bill's report after it was submitted and the majority has not been answered. I don't think it's possible, during the Congress's treatment, that answers don't show up about these things. How, for example, should the monitoring be implemented to 8. par.? How is this going to happen? What does a minister see? I think that if you think you can win this thing a little better, you could make a lot more peace, and that could be much more peaceful. I'd like to encourage the highest. To take an active part in the discussion, a minister is most likely to object to every member of the administration of the issue presented here. I'm sure it will shorten the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u133	The president wants to inform us on this occasion. A minister has arrived at the speaker's file and will likely speak up in accordance with the tradition that a minister can enter a discussion when necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u134	A respectable president. Well, then I can remember to shorten my case as soon as the Minister's on the mollusk list. It was only because there had been no candidate who had addressed the discussion and told the case I was going to call for it. If that's the word, there's nothing to wait for. I welcome the Minister both home and welcome to the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u135	A respectable president. It's always good to know you're missing and people are excited to see you. The discussion that has been conducted here for quite a long time is no less like the discussion that was conducted at 1st. Last winter and a winter of 1st. ... backinthefalltime. Here is a big misunderstanding with some of my kindly and obliged to go over again, once again, in some cases where most of these things have been pointed out or asked about, and I think I've answered this most before, all that has been presented here. About what... [[Up front.]] I'm sorry. Senator, do you have a speech or me? That's what I'm talking about. paritaprevir Kristján Möller speaking?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u136	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Minister has become.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u137	Hv. paritaprevir The Árni Árnason's earlier reference to supervision was made to one issue that has already been made. This bill is a bill for changes to existing law. As a result, unless there is a change in wording, the article on the surveillance of the old law remains the same. In effect, instead of being a four - year plan, there is a five - year plan and a two - year plan of action. This is the only phrase that will be used in this article. Monitoring as stated in the 2005 law remains unchanged, according to this recommendation. Other speculations. Once again, a considerable question has been asked about the peerism of FAC and why not wait for it. I simply ask: Why do we have to wait for DiaC when it has been evaluated for governance and the legal structure of international development cooperation in Iceland? This was done at the end of 2012, and at the conclusion of this assessment, FAC suggested that we should examine this precise arrangement. That's one of the suggestions we made from DAC, and that's exactly what we did. I'd also like to correct the misunderstanding presented by members of the Parliament that FAC will offer some suggestion for organization in developing cooperation. They won't. This committee, however, is designed to review and offer suggestions for improvement. If the committee feels that something is lacking, it offers suggestions for improvement, as it did in 2012. If I recall correctly, I'm going to have a little notice of that, the planned assessment was not expected to be completed until 2017. Again and again, there's nothing to wait for you to do about this. It has also been asked if having one responsible person is improving. Somehow, people pulled the road into the discussion that is completely incomprehensible. Of course, these two are quite different. You forget that today's 60% project for development is at the State Department. 40% to the DSI, 60% to the State Department. To compare this to the making of Vega is a very far - reaching thing that also shows that the Ministry of State is fully involved in development. There has been a growing of knowledge and experience over the years, and the Ministry has certainly done only as good as when it comes to what is under the Ministry. What the Ministry is doing today is nothing against what the TSSI does. There's no conflict about this at all, no such thing at all. Then you are wondering if there is a different type of thinking and methodology. It's not like that. They have also wondered, " Can this happen in the so - called di·loʹa? ' It's been okay for the Ministry, which is this di·loʹa, to work within the seminary, which is developing cooperation with 60% of the money in the team there. Then ask yourself, " If the Danish and Finnish diplomats can do so, for example, why should they not? ' I don't feel that there's any point to me. Then there is a question about related tasks that I may be involved in later on. Evolution alone is not always able to cope with all its activities. It often takes frequent involvement in foreign service or other projects. I'll be back to the fact that there are no changes in policy plans, e.g. how we are working on two - sided development teamwork. We must also be ready to listen. It is called after in some of my colleagues when we are discussing evolution issues as to whether we can help - men are very happy and grateful for the assistance we have provided, for example, through the World Bank and such institutions. One outstanding feature recently is that we are asked to assist considerably if we can adapt, write laws on natural resources, use of their resources, etc. There's obviously going to be a lot of interest, at least in some, this should be added. Then they asked about the distribution of power and said that the development teamwork committee, DEC, praised the YSSI. No change is expected in terms of, for example, the authority given by a district office. For example, it is not expected that their role will be different from that of today, for example, when it comes to administrative matters, including those discussed in this case. This too has been a criticism given to the State Department, which I think the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee has just answered brilliantly. Since then, comments have been discussed in the Bible. I also think it's important to keep it in place that if I know correctly, this device came, phase, not by formal reference to the Committee, but by somewhere, on Facebook somewhere, on the Internet, something like that. However, there are false entries in the notes of transparency that I will briefly point to. Among other things, it says by permission of the president: After the Department of State oversees TheSSI, all donations made by the Icelandic taxpayers will become international development partnerships in a ◯one pot to be found within the Ministry. It's just wrong. It's not right. As members of Congress may know, each year's annual budget will be determined by the General Assembly, including contributions for developing cooperation that may be divided into several budgets. They're being put into budgets. It's not just some pot with which you can make it. They believe that it will be harder to monitor what happens within the council, within their institutions, where, for example, government reviews will be reimbursed at the Ministry. That's not true. Government reviews have exactly the same authority to monitor recommendations as making administrative arrangements for recruitment and its institutions. I don't think it's long since the National Reconnaissance took a look at what happened to us Icelanders or anything like that. At least we were answering, and of course we came out very well. As a review, I read this from the National Accounting website, with the permission of a president: A review will examine the treatment and use of public funds and suggest ways to improve these factors, according to Article 9. Act of the Agency. The project is called a administrative reexamination and is, in effect, an assessment of recruitment, institutions, etc. Since then, some have talked about employees of UTN being geneticists, always using that word, not being able to go to the seminary, as the TSSI does. Ideally, this means the loss of knowledge, expertise, something like that. This, of course, is not true, since the Ministry operates within the development network of evolutionary experts. Furthermore, it has been stated that it will be of particular interest to maintain the expertise and expertise that have been built up within the YES. In this chair, I have repeatedly learned that this knowledge is not lost. It is especially important to remember that knowledge is not lost when workers are assigned, for example, to transport. I've said that no employee of YES is going to be tortured to become a carrier. We will also not stand in the way of employees going to that kind of snack if they want to. We need to work it out. Other nations have recently had to cope with the same thing, e.g. Canadians. There the Department of Development was united two years ago. We will look to and try to take full advantage of the experiences of others in order to make the best of the work. There was also a comment on the increase in opacity, the lack of multiple assessments of UN University and the success of peacekeeping. I don't know exactly why this blends in, but there's an assessment of the international projects that Iceland is working on and supporting, as there's a consistent part of all the projects that it's done. During these days, an assessment of the United Nations University is under way, and preparation is taking place. Since then, it has been said that instead of pursuing the interests of the poor people of the world, the work is more focused on Iceland's interests. I find this very long-term fever, and I remind the members of the Parliament that it is worked under the Constitution of the Iceland's International Development Team for which the General Assembly is able to treat and approve. That's where the lines are set for this job. The Council is always considering this policy, so the General can determine whether or not the policy should be centered on the poor people or on the interests of Iceland. I suppose most of us would like to make it about our success in the field work. Then there was the question of how peacekeeping is linked with developing peacekeeping and how peacekeeping promotes a high school in Malawi and something like that. This is a clear approach to my judgment, but for the record, it is in line with the development team emphasising on three main areas, the structure of social infrastructure, sustainable use of natural resources and a work for the sake of peace. This is one of the three key factors that are highlighted. We know that peace, security, and development are all closely linked. If we can promote peace somewhere, we will know that that this area or that land has a much greater chance of developing and increasing. It is not possible to say that peace and development are completely separate. A peaceful environment is very important in the long run. Similarly, in order to work in ways that lead to failure in development, government, destabilization, uncertainty, and the lack of environment can weaken. It's all connected, and one thing doesn't rule out another thing. It has also been criticized that members of the Parliament will be part of a development team, not currently representing the council. The idea is to strengthen the assembly's arrival without having a special committee to discuss this matter. There have been times when the council has more access to these matters, and there is an attempt to cope. A similar arrangement has been established in Finland, and it is also appropriate to remind you of it. I don't think it's quite surprising that this discussion has begun at the conference Hall that the matter smells like a little revenge against the employees of YESI. It's amazing that members of Congress are letting it slip into the platform that the Ministry and Minister handle such a case to get over people. This discussion is my own. It's embarrassing to those who have made this statement here. I have nothing more to say about the staff of the Development Agency. To reiterate it again and again, just as the director of the ideal institution is in the group that cooperates with these institutions. I said in this talk chair on my own initiative, because it was not asked but suggested that all sorts of strange things, that it would not be impossible for him to be a good worker - indeed, very likely, and I suppose we will try to make good use of his workers, for there is a great knowledge of the journey.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u138	Try?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u139	Wait a minute. A senator reading the answer I gave last.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u140	...trying to do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u141	Hv. A senator is still asking for the word, Mr. President, Kristján L. Möller, he...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u142	Sounds in the audience.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u143	He should be among the vice presidents of the Generals to be familiar with the rules that are in the hall, and not to push forward, but perhaps his main contribution in this matter. [[Up front.]] I said that a former employee or this fine man would be available to work with us, that would be the case, but there would probably be some particular project. We do not continue with the work until we are five years old. But do not forget that this work is the only job that is set up until five years of age. It's just the rules that people work on, and the time of command is simply running out. Talking about revenge is very strange. I have a little thought, and will perhaps try to keep asking it, why this discussion takes place. Why is there so much emphasis here, especially from two members of the Senate, that the director is somehow under attack? I don't quite understand why it is. Since then, it has been said that Þórir Guðmundsson, a writer, has something to do with interest. Þórir was given this task because he has a very long experience and a comprehensive knowledge of both relief efforts and development. Some strange opinions were also developed here by officials. Sadly, they cannot stand here and protect themselves. There is a very low rise in the men who have said such things in a public assembly, who have blamed the officials for all of this. It's the Minister responsible for this, it's the Minister who decided to take the initiative to have the benefits of future mouse species on development teamwork, respond to DAC's comments, etc., not the Ministry's authorities. They didn't make it or specifically suggest it, so I'm not gonna spend any more powder in it nonsense everything. The bill was then referred to as sliding under the rifts of the economization group. That's not true.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u144	He says so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u145	Is that what he says? Let's just be happy if it's from him. I believe, however, that he encouraged us to examine our developing cooperation, as he did everything else. But it's totally clear who's responsible. [[Up front.]] Here people have spoken of a horse's purchase and not of real support. This case was adopted by the government of both administrations, so there is no need to question the best support for this ideal case. There have been so many debates that the tribe should be let go, reducing development aid, etc. That's wrong. It is said that YES are to be drawn up, which, of course, is also wrong. The reasons for this are simply professional. We feel that we will achieve better development cooperation by doing this. That is what comes out in the report that Þórir Guðmundsson won. As I said before, the funds are tied in a certain way. The General Assembly, of course, will continue to shape the emphasis on the exchange of contributions, etc. I think I'll let it go. These are most of the things that have occurred before, the things that have been asked about and that have been answered. They were answered in the first winter, and so were the first. Of course, I hope that this material, extensive, and careful discussion will continue.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u146	Mr. President. V.E.G. A minister can have any opinion he would like to have of our remarks and conclusions. The rest is absolutely set to the highest. Secretary has shown himself to the employees of your team. He's been disrespectful to them. He hasn't had with them the meeting they've been asking for. I recall that the State Radio saw a special reason to pay attention to the highest level. A minister did not want the Agency's staff with him when he finally went to Africa to examine the activities and projects of the Agency. V.E.G. In no way did a minister answer the questions about the issues presented in the biplication report that YSSI does not work in harmony with foreign policy, etc. That's what he's been so persistent about. And there were no answers now. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister only one question. At a meeting of the State Department of State, it was asserted by members of the United States that when he called the workers to him and told them about his decision, they asked for their arguments. Minister said, "I don't need logic." [[The president calls.]] I want the highest. Minister will answer if this is true or false.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u147	A respectable president. I'm gonna try not to go down to the same plan as that. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Osse in this matter, like so many others. That I've been a little bit dramatic and disrespectful, that's his word. No doubt he has some information I don't have. That I didn't attend meetings that were wanted, that I didn't know at all. It would be good, then, to have an example of this. I've found it twice, if not three times with your employees. One meeting was a video meeting so that those who are farther away could be with them. Then, of course, I've been meeting with the head of the agency more than that. That I didn't want employees to go to Africa with me. In Africa, a district office has a number of people. I can't say any more than that we've had a wonderful time there. That someone has been forbidden to come. Nobody wanted to come along on that trip, so it's clearly stated. Then a statement was asked, a minister would have said at some meeting that he needed no reasoning. I don't know that either.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u148	Mr. President. It's never happened before. A minister, whoever he has been and who has done that work in the past, has made such a journey without taking your superiors. At that point, the Kingdom Media thought it to be newsworthy, and it was quite clear that it was because of the highest attitude. There would be a minister with respect to the personnel of the Agency. It seemed quite simple. She was that the Agency's employees had answered frank questions that we members of the Parliament had asked them. They had said their mind. It was quite clear that it went very badly for the chest of the highest. Minister. It is difficult to review all the questions you would like to ask and the highest. Ministers have been approached, but never answered. One of the things I want to ask the highest. Minister on the subject is as follows. Once again, he shows that the evidence for the subjugation of YSSI is a clear indication from the OECD development team. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Where does the DEC Committee put to put it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u149	A respectable president. I can't answer for the State Radio. I just can't. I'm in no position to do that, and I don't know what they're making of that story. Actually, I don't remember the story. I have to say it. [[Take it up, you remember...]] No, I don't remember her. A senator, but I'm not gonna say it wasn't published at all, but I don't remember her. I need to take this opportunity to say that it was very helpful to come to Malawi specifically, we spent a lot of time there, and see how much has happened, how good that job is, and how successful it has been. There's something I'm about to take myself to the future as a great lesson, to see what that good staff is doing there. As mentioned in my case earlier, the DEC committee gives a tip or a better look at it. She doesn't come to say that she's going to the Ministry or Ministry or any of that stuff. They said, "It's time to review the development process in Iceland and examine ways. " [[The president calls.]] Or are there ways to improve? That's what we did.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u150	A respectable president. It's all right to the highest. Finally, a minister has come to the Assembly Hall to answer questions and to consider this discussion with us members of Congress. We've missed him in this discussion. The minister has not answered what is really the question that is awake in the air and remains: What is the point of shutting down Iceland's Development Research Institute? The evidence shows that there is no saving of this provision, there is no political necessity. There have been no indications of adverse reactions, double - injury, or anything else mentioned among the reasons for such a course. Then I ask the highest. Minister: For what? There's nothing to answer but one sentence. What are the benefits of putting down this established institution?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u151	A respectable president. The bill and the report will show why this expedition is being undertaken. One way to review this is to make better use of all the staff we have, both in the TSSI and in the Ministry, is to include both experts. By going that way, we increase knowledge in both places. We are also responding to what we have seen most other nations do in order to gain greater power in developing cooperation. We're doing this to improve developing cooperation. We are not doing this to do anything else in this way. Our perspective will be better. She'll be better at money, she'll be better at planning. And all of this, we believe, will eventually improve the activities we are in general with today's developing world. It is true that savings is not the reason we go to this expedition. It is not the motivation, for it has repeatedly been shown in my case that it is not what drives us, it is simply a better organization and hopefully better development cooperation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u152	Mr. President. It is quite easy to hear the minister's answer that he doesn't know, that he doesn't have the answer, why he's going on this journey. He speaks of the practicality and of making better use of money and resources and increasing knowledge. However, the Agency's objectives, policies, or practices should not be altered according to the bill and its own words. It should not change anything, but he feels that it will benefit him if he does not have an answer in any way. I'd like to ask the highest, too. Minister: It is referred to in a report by the bill to strengthen the link between development work and other foreign affairs. What does the Minister mean by that? In my speech, I explained that there is a danger of political pollution. In his speech, he felt that it was farfetched to have doubts about this agreement between foreign affairs and developing cooperation. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: What is the need for strengthening, in what way do developing cooperation with foreign authorities need to be strengthened?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u153	A respectable president. I entered in my speech earlier that the line between evolutionary cooperation and peacekeeping, for example, our fight on climate change, etc. - They're very vague words this limit. It has something to do with everything more and less in one way or another. For example, I think that if we were successful in Paris next month, it would be one of the best things that could happen to developing countries that we would be able to take up a fight against the climate, desertification, etc. All of this, we are simply trying to get a better perspective. We feel that we can work more closely on the group of languages as a whole. In all these matters, we'd have it all in one place. It isn't like that, because it doesn't say that developing cooperation should pay for another. We are simply strengthening all these factors by walking that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u154	A respectable president. I want to celebrate first. Secretary of state is in the hall. When I look at the bill with the bill, it's repeatedly said, by permission of the President: The report was positive, and it showed that the development of Iceland's team is based on a solid and professional basis. The report contained some suggestions on better practice, either in policy areas, initiatives, or arrangements. Also says: In addition, the respondent team suggested that Iceland be tested to see if Iceland's development team and structure were still suitable. Then, with the permission of a president, Þórir Guðmundsson's report, the main outcome is the coordination of all government officials that evolutionary cooperation should be in one place. Was there somewhere told which place it should be? Where is it? Who gives evidence of this, and when? Isn't it controversial about what place this is?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u155	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the question. We can see that obviously it is debated what the organization should be like. The report by Þórir, son of Guðmundsson, suggests that I recall, as three or four possibilities of this future organization, but in the end, his proposal is that the way in which this is proposed will be accomplished. So it comes from the person who was considering this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u156	President. We have one person who says, "Yes, it's possible it's the best solution to move this over to one place. " However, there are differing opinions on this subject. Among other things, the report by Guðmundsson Gudmundon on comments from TheSSI that there are three advantages, first of all, to import the Agency into the Ministry of State, second, to maintain the current arrangement and third, to transfer the group to the Agency permanently, which is critical that by moving the Agency into the Ministry completely reduces the transparency and the Ministry itself has its own surveillance by moving the SISSI there. I'm asking the highest. The minister of whether it's a good government case when we're moving an agency into the Ministry, where the Ministry is suddenly to monitor itself. Is it not better for the Ministry to try to monitor some other organisations, as well as the council, than to move all of this to one place?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u157	A respectable president. I've answered here that monitoring will actually be the same as it is in the current law, i.e. for a national reexamination, regardless of Member States, international bodies when we have international projects, etc. Hv. Hence, a senator does not have to fear that the inspection will be less than today. Of course, the Ministry is always clean under supervision.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u158	A respectable president. V.E.G. Secretary of State said we wanted to improve development. That is what he will likely do according to his words. All right. I think everybody in here wants to improve development teamwork. There is, however, a disagreement on how this is to be done. In a complex report by Þórir Guðmundsson, he does not simply conclude that this bill is the solution. He offers three suggestions. One suggestion is, of course, that development in the Ministry of State and become part of the Department of State for Development and Development, secondly, that the organization will remain largely unchanged but a specific transfer of projects between TheSSI and the Ministry and the Agency would include all two-sided projects, but effectiveness and monitoring would be left behind in the State Department's office, thirdly a device TheSSI, with most of the key roles of the development community agency that would be submitted but policy would be carried out by the International and Security Office. I'm wondering if it's the highest. The minister of foreign affairs has taken a thorough look at the other advantages and is able to give support to the reasons why the other paths were not taken, in view of the disagreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u159	A respectable president. Of course they were. It is not fair for a senator to say that there is not one suggestion taken for special purposes, that is, in fact, specifically stated by a news editor, that it is likely the best way to take this route. Three options are correct, but at another point in the report, the matter is summed up and suggestions are provided, and this is the course suggested. I think that no matter which way we would have gone, she would have been controversial. This, however, is what we believe is most profitable to support development cooperation. This is the way most people go today, our fellow workers, and others. This is the way we think we're going to return us to a much better place than we're on today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u160	A respectable president. This is not in line with my understanding of what I heard Þórir Guðmundsson say at committee meetings, maybe I misunderstood him, but as I understood him, he felt that the other benefits were just as likely to work, and there would be no basis to choose them rather than this one. Now I can point out that another option is mentioned in the report that I do not believe to the highest level. The minister of state believes that it would be as controversial, and it is that the organization remains largely unchanged than certain transfers of projects would be between TheSSI and the Ministry, including the Agency's tools on all two-sided tasks but the effectiveness evaluation and observation would be left at State Department. It wouldn't be a stop for a long time, I don't think so. I would also like to hear something about why these paths are not gone. If the argument is simply that Þórir Guðmundsson came to this conclusion, then all the discussion that follows is being ignored. It must have to be answered why it has not gone as softer, less controversial, and according to the sense that I had on this just as likely to succeed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u161	A respectable president. Clearly, we discern the path to this matter. This is the way we think it's the most successful way. For one thing, we did this because we were motivated by FAC to review these matters. We got Þórir Guðmundsson to go through it, investigate it. [[Up front.]] - What? [[Up front.]] Then, of course, it is up to us to accept and process the suggestions and, in effect, decide what is suggested at the council. That, of course, is the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u162	A respectable president. As the discussion goes on, the fact that this raw majority of abuse was to be used in a foreign - language committee is becoming increasingly publicized to choke objective and natural coverage of the matter. It has made it totally lacking here in the conference hall. The lack of experience that the Chairman of the committee handled the matter must be primarily written. I want to use this opportunity to encourage the highest. A president to cut off this discussion and that the case should go back to the Committee. Then all the misunderstandings presented in the case could be corrected. Secretary of State and internalize the case of the Committee, the important matters of opinion that exist there, and get fairly prepared cases to be discussed here in the chamber.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u163	A respectable president. Since the minister is in the house, I'd like to suggest that the president contributes to the possibility of having a conversation on this matter, how to proceed with it. It is not acceptable to discuss the matter in the way this has been explained, to conclude the deadline, the next day the case is discussed, and to announce that it will be completed at a meeting the following day. It's just a hoodlum. It's not an option to work this way. I don't think the Minister can be pleased that this is the case with him throughout the council, and this is how they drive into a war situation. So I'd like to hear from the President if it's not possible for us to use this opportunity now, when the Minister has finally arrived, and try to sit over it and find some sort of landing in it. It would be strange to not take to heart what has been so far over and over again on the part of the diplomats to settle the matter quietly and withdraw it from the program.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u164	President. I would like to agree with the comments presented here. We're discussing a group of subjects that are very important, and especially at times that we're facing here in Iceland and elsewhere in the West. It is very important that we try to get a parapolitic approach to this group of subjects. This is not a group that should be presented with violence; simply because of the nature and nature of the matter, it should be done with a broad approach and with a spirit of reconciliation. I'd like to give you an example of such work. There is a bill for a new alien law that took the initiative. paritaprevir Birna Kristjánsdóttir's daughter. She set out what the Minister of State and the Council Committee has recently presented to the minister of the organized bill. It is a type of work that is a pleasure, and it belongs to such a delicate group of people here. I agree that we will use the lunch break below to cover the possibility of achieving such a approach.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u165	A respectable president. I want to present one correction. I mistakenly reminded myself earlier that Þórir Guðmundsson suggested that what is mentioned in the committee of my objects is just as good an option. That's because there are different categories of these in my notes from this meeting. But it was noted that two at the Committee meeting could be considered, which would be a project that would cover most of the projects and that would be a major organisation. We wish we could repeat the answers in the light of this. Actually, the question is the same, why the benefits have been rejected, but I wanted to present this correction after examining the breezes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u166	V.E.G. President. I listened breathe at the highest. A minister reviews questions and answers to what was said at 2 Timothy 3: 1. Um, not just today, but the past few days, when the minister was west at Issafir meeting with the candidates, which may be some of them. I felt that the Minister's defense was that it was all one misunderstanding between us from start to finish, that we didn't understand the minister and we didn't understand what he was going to do. That's why I think it's absolutely inevitable that the committee would come back together and review these matters. I point out that not all comments have been dealt with. On the other hand, a minister might ask, because he did not respond, about the treatment that the chairman of the Commission and the vice president applied to the two meetings held half a day or a day apart, where the matter was actually torn out of a committee without knowing what visitors had done. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u167	Mr. President. It was a pleasure to have a minister see fit to finally come to the discussion, it was time. I have to agree with it. The head of Parliament of the Left Green said, if it is available to do so, it can be concluded with good results. A report by the secretary of state on section 16, states: ▪ Despite increased exposure to politics, if united, how is it intended to make peace with the public about Iceland's development cooperation? Besides, we like to talk about unity. It's not really uniting, it's an institution running into the Ministry. It's a completely different arm than uniting two organizations, so first, it's a false name. But it also does not prevail in general peace. The public, whoever he is, whether he is us or anyone else in the community, whether it's the staff of the Development Research Institute or anyone else who's interested in these matters - they don't like the party. But we can work with the spirit that has been done here regarding two major issues mentioned earlier, nature protection laws, and the alien languages.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u168	Mr. President. I think there were some good ideas here that could be settled, or at least on the basis of them. V.E.G. A minister must be concerned about being able to follow in the footsteps of his superiors in the forward movement, who always tried to have non - political reconciliation around development. In fact, every minister has tried, and I'm sure it's the highest. A minister does not recommend his thinking when he claims to want to bring about the best development team. But he's been caught in a bit of an outcast with that remarkable lawsuit. Now the rise is a great controversy that could probably be settled. That's why I think it's a very good idea that we have here, including... When co-administered, the risk was increased. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, we're going to go back to the foreign business committee. Let us test it, for example, on the basis of the ideas presented in the report of the son of Þórir Guðmundsson. In this way, we could make peace, and at the end of the day, we would all find pleasure in our enjoyment. I think that would be a National Council. It would be for everyone's benefit, my chief. Minister, General, but perhaps mainly the seminars.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u169	Mr. President. It's a good thing I'm moving up to seventh position at next election. But with this issue, I felt that there was nothing to be said in a talk. Minister of the past to support this rush. He said that everything will really be the same as before. I can't quite understand the purpose of going on this journey inconsistencies with the government and the number of members in the community and like the employees of this institution and the professionals in this matter. I wish for the highest. Ministers show that he is a man of peace, and they try to lead a broad way of agreeing on the matter and pointing them to the ideas presented during the discussion, such as finding other aspects of the matter. This is also shown in a report by the news report of the son of Þórir Guðmundsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u170	Mr. President. V.E.G. A minister has often shown that he is ready for a controversial discussion. I'm the highest. A minister to listen carefully to what has been said here in various ways. Councilmen, including president of the branch office of the left green, have every reason to try to revise this matter. For example, another has been done during the council, and the protection laws of nature have been mentioned. I'm pretty sure that's what it is. The members of all classes are now happy that they failed to fulfill their intentions, i.e. calling back the laws on nature protection. Instead, they worked hard to settle the matter. I'm the highest. A minister to listen to what is said here, for this is a group of languages that merit our taking the time to make peace. Of course, this is not achieved by the fact that most of our discussions are being held by the government of the United States. I think that this is the best thing to do when people communicate with each other. I'm the highest. Minister to consider it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u171	Madam President. I agree with what has been said here about the idea of trying to take the matter to the next place and to settle a debate about it, especially because of the high value of the group of paint and the material and interpolitical reconciliation that might be in sight. This has been about nature protection laws and how the head of the Environment and Transport Committee, why. paritaprevir Höskuldur the Þór of Þórhallsson, in doing so, was able to bring it into an upbuilding way. I'd like to give another example, and maybe it's someone's surprise that I'm wondering why. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, president of a professional network committee, was like this, but let's think that when we were discussing a system plan, there was stopped in the middle of a rosary to have a special meeting to fix the situation. This was done, and then the discussion continued, so we have fine examples of men who have managed to settle large issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u172	A respectable president. I don't think there's exactly any reason to take this matter off or to take it to a committee. There has been no mention of the case since the last winter, there is nothing new that has happened to the government's stand on the subject. These are the same questions that have been answered more and less, perhaps one or two, and they have already been answered. What I want to do, however, is to correct one thing; it was said that a lot of people had discussed the matter, if I heard it correctly. I think four or five reviews of the case came up with a committee. This is not a large number, and especially the number of people who have then seen a reason to comment on the matter, since this is primarily a government change. Nothing else is being converted into evolutionary cooperation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u173	Mr. President. You see, we disagree, i.e. the subject of each song. There's a big change of direction here. The fact that a case cannot be resolved or that it doesn't have to be done in the opinion of a minister, I feel a little superior, I have to say it. I think he can agree that when the protection laws were discussed during the last term, and then they have been discussed a little since, many people may have thought that there could be no such thing, nothing new would have been done that had changed or changed. Yet, that happened. There were certain compromises, and I wondered, in view of the fact that many stewards have been offered to go that way but have not done so for some reason. But now it's the highest figure. The minister that it is time to do so, so something has evidently changed over the years that we have not seen. That in itself is just a reason to discuss the matter further.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u174	Mr. President. I want to point the top. The minister's importance is not necessarily the number of stories that have come in but the content and the weight of criticism that have been presented in these comments, which are relevant. Of course, it is not good practice to have the case torn out in just two days. I thought it was a suggestion. Group chairman of the left green very good, to the top. A minister would look to Jón Gunnarsson as a model and accept the challenge of following in his footsteps and becoming a peacemaker, trying to find solutions to the matter, as many have had to do, to break off a show of humor in big matters, as in a plan. Some cases are large enough to be larger than any minister's office, and such matters are now on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u175	A respectable president. I was shocked to hear the minister's words earlier when he looked at the matter being discussed at the previous council and therefore there would be no need to have some discussion about it now and this would be some minor administrative development, etc. What kind of attitude is this at the highest? Minister on the case here at the council? Of course it is that the cases come here for the council, and they are to be discussed normally. But the reviews were not addressed properly. The nominees desired to have visitors at the committee, but they were denied it; the case ended in two days. This is the work force at the highest level. A minister feels all right just because he or she talks about it at another assembly. Is this the type of work being done here? I have to say, it's not a procedure that's okay. But this is a sign of how arrogant this government is and its ministers and people's attitude toward the council and how men associate with democracy and how men associate with smaller things that also have their rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u176	A respectable president. Now I was at a meeting of the State Department when this was taken out. There Þórir Guðmundsson came and spoke with members of the committee, who were very good. But no discussion has been made on a committee since then or here at the conferences, at least not the administrative part, of what other advantages might be considered. Other options, as mentioned, are that most of the projects go to the SSI and go to this major organisation. Another possibility is to import the Agency into the Ministry without laying it down. That is the way others have been going, for example, in Denmark. When asked why Þórir Guðmundsson came to this conclusion, he mentioned that this is what others are doing. But this distribution is not what others are doing. What others are doing, at least in Denmark and that I remind you in Norway, is putting the Agency in the Ministry of State without laying it down. There is good reason to discuss this, including a conversational committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u177	Mr. President. There would be good reason for us to reexamine the matter. The Foreign Affairs Committee and try to try to find peace on the basis of what Þórir Guðmundsson said at a meeting of the Committee that is equally valid for the highest level. Minister wants to go. There are also other reasons for doing so. This was very clear in the case of the highest. Minister here earlier that he or his officials have misunderstood a substantial portion of the death rate by the DA's committee. V.E.G. One minister said that there was a suggestion to consider development cooperation arrangements with the goal of adjusting them for a possible change. It is true to the point that it was suggested on the basis of what was then reality, that large amounts of money should be added to developing cooperation. It was in view of that, but it didn't happen. It's not going to be the highest. A minister in relation to the plan that he set out last year but was never discussed, so I think that there is good reason to call the matter into committees to go over it because everything draws itself up to make the report and the only reason. A minister for this matter does not hold, based on tragic misunderstandings. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u178	Mr. President. I don't often come up here for the President's conference board, but I usually do that in an effort to promote peace and reconciliation. It has been in some of the cases that have been in the council. I am one of those who have loved the highest. Secretary of state. I feel like he's done very well at work and done well for Iceland in the most difficult things we've been dealing with in recent years, but I think he's a little stubborn, and in this matter he is, but he's got his reasons why. This may not be the most important issue today in today's politics in Iceland, but it is very important to me that there is peace, such as in nature protection and other matters. This will deal with the fact that we are helping the poorest people in the world to save themselves and help them develop into a better way of life. That's why I feel that it should be settled. I challenge the highest. Secretary of state to find this reconciliation. You can't do it like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u179	A respectable president. I think this case is a scandal. The only argument as the highest. A minister's point is, one party said in one place that one way or three, depending on how you feel, that the Agency goes into the Ministry, would be the way to go. One report is not enough. With careful, professional, scientific, or historical work, there are at least three researchs, regardless of their authority, to evaluate something. In fact, three suggestions are discussed, and there is a problem with three suggestions, such as the one mentioned in the report, so it is not as if this is a sacred matter. This is being discussed in the report, it is not a final judgment. I don't understand how a minister is willing to take this power and decide this from this situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u180	A respectable president. I think this is the fifth time I've come up here to put it up to this point -- I don't know how many times I have to say, if it really matters -- when it's claimed that it didn't happen to members of the State Department's wishes for guests. That's wrong. We had become all requests for visitors at a meeting of the Committee, all requests. It is true that the two meetings mentioned here were handled, but that was the case with all such requests. There was no request to meet with the board members from ASVI because they had already come and did not return this formal statement, but they referred to a previous review. There's no way we can talk about how many people don't get the guests in that they wanted, etc. - That's not true or true. We can argue here on the issues involved, and let us do so and be quite honest about it, but to say that a committee needs to be reinstated because the lesser part of the committee has not had guests. [[The president calls.]] Although there were very many issues of concern at a meeting of the Committee, there was no disagreement on handling the matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u181	A respectable president. Be honest and sincere in arguing about the matter, is it not? Chairman of the State Department. [[Up front.]] It is the politician who has given much thought to the need to improve politicians and discuss between classes and to build political bridges, but now he has his career as chairman of the State Commission for the good peace that has been involved in developing cooperation over many years. I have to tell the senator's comments on the treatment of the matter that I was serving at a panel meeting as members of the United States Parliament and was called by them for a hearing of a foreign commission in which the members of my body were subjected to perfect violence and had to resort to 2nd. Section 15. Congress contracts to achieve their rights at the meeting. I refer to booking why. paritaprevir On Friday's meeting with the Committee committee, Skarphéðinsson's son's Accuracy said that the procedure was not nearly finished. I encourage men to do what was done in a strategy, to interrupt the discussion, to review the matter outside the council hall, and to seek reconciliation and unity in this series again. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u182	President. We'll discuss a bill to legalize the legislation on the international development team in Iceland. The matter is virtually consistent, and it was not completed in spring. As with the case under consideration, I feel that the wise thing to do was simply to retract it. This is the case today. A minister here insists that this is primarily a administrative change, that the projects are still in place, and that rather than being cared for by an institution, the project remains to be carried out in the Ministry. True, we disagree about that understanding, for my stand is strongly that it is a change of nature, much more severe and larger. What is incomprehensible about the situation is the weightiest. If it's so trivial, a minister will consider it. If it's just about moving some office and doing some project more at the Ministry than in the Bureau, why is the case there at the General for the first time that the majority of the people seem to have made some sort of insistence that the case is not to be touched by a committee, that should go through the committee and remain unchanged from what was last year? On the contrary, it has the advantage of a huge political burden. I would feel sorry for such things if there were something related to the Treaty or national meetings of the Annexe Party or some major political issue, and men took over and took the discussion, then an amplification of it at the General Assembly, where much of which would be done by votes. How this case is made to me that this great flagship of the Ministers and of the Government classes, on the other hand, I am fond of thinking and watching politics longer than I can remember, is totally incomprehensible. I have often seen a minister fight over big political issues, not something they believe to be about where the office should be. I think it's the big thing. I still haven't had an explanation for this. The minister says: "It was an assessment, and then Þórir Guðmundsson and I came to the conclusion that he had an excellent suggestion, and we are going to make it ours. That's the point. What stands out and I would like to pray to the highest. A minister, whether in question or perhaps in another speech later this evening or later in the week after an incident, answers the value of a lawsuit like that in a dispute. Developmental cooperation is not supposed to be a class of political issues, it's not a case, it's a lawsuit we've developed a common position on, and all foreign ministers have proposed that cross political agreements were about decisions in this series. And why is that? Because it is part of our sense of how we share in developing cooperation as a society and nation. There shouldn't be something we choose with a gesture every four years. This is to be a covenant that is far deeper in our identity and sense than it deserves to be dusty in political games. Hv. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, who gave a talk in the 1st. on the subject, it was said that institutions should not be taken needlessly. I think it can sometimes refer to bringing the institutions and changing their appearance, their work, their content, and their interaction with the Ministry, and so forth, but it needs to be argumentative, and in this category, I think it's very important not to go into debate. I noticed that at the top of the question. Minister that he did not consider any of the evidence to have appeared in the discussion as a basis for reexamination, i.e. either recall it to a committee without completing the rosary or call it in between 2 and 3. and look at it or, as it was done, and I mentioned earlier in reply to the plan of electrical transport. At that time, there was quite a conflict in the Hall of Congress, and the conclusion led to failure. A senator, then president of the professional trade committee - and we have certainly cooked silver through our political partnerships - took the initiative, of course, in talking with his minister and minister of the jury, to settle over whether a better landing could be achieved in the matter, better reconciliation. This was not the least because it was large decisions focused on planning matters in the highlands, relationships with a number of rural areas, and the development of electricity transport systems, an enormously important issue. It was in my opinion to make a significant improvement. I didn't vote on the case when there was a vote here at the end. But we thought it was considerably better. We agreed in my smaller section and in part that the matter would have benefited from these cases and that we would settle over them. I feel that we should have the courage to operate such devices more often. Sometimes it is said that we have learned nothing from the collapse. It's a popular phrase. This is the majority, and we've heard the highest. The secretary of finance speaks of the greater part of counsel and so on. But we should not forget that there are some good examples of how work can be different. This is not necessarily at the expense of the subject, the input in the matter. I mentioned a system plan earlier, and then there's a nature protection law, which is also a law of law that has a higher interest than traditional nostalgias between elections. More important, alien laws that are also a large, broad group of languages. I feel that, in all these cases, transversely, though in various ways. When it comes to the foreign law, the minister himself goes on to support the party's count of the value that it must approach transversely. In addition, this work has been done in close contact with those who need to submit to the legislation, so to speak, and those who are investigators in the seminary of the university environment, lawyers in the category, the Red Cross, the police, and other parties. Of course, that is not to say that the result of such work is that a person is getting his way. But I am convinced that the matter is for the best, that it is not torn up every four years. In the case of nature protection, this happened not first with the minister but rather at work at the council and was very successful at the end of the job, but with a considerable length of time. Then there's the example I traced earlier with my system plan. These are all examples of a person's taking the lead in showing a measure of political courage, for working at this convention is for the benefit of the situation. I have sometimes thought that if I stand here as a member of the Group at the Allied Council, and therefore should not be particularly concerned about the center, it would be good for them to bring together all the viewpoints, such as in organizational matters and alienities and such matters, that would do them good. It is also about a measure of social stability, security, and, above all, in litigators of decisions taken for a very long time, to form in organizational matters. When one close to the largest part of a small community decides to build a tower that covers up future generations' vision, it may be asked whether the greater proportion of these items were authorized in elections to make such a radical decision. I'm going a little wide here, but what's the point of my speech and I'd like to be left behind, because I've already spoken in this case, both in spring and also in the previous discussion, are these views. I believe that at some point in the history of the case, many of those coming on the majority would have had the political strength to step forward and try to put the controversy down. Then I'd like to say that in the case it was submitted a year ago, we made quite a comment to a section and a part of it, a series of sentences that cannot really be called pimps. As mentioned above, the highest will be delivered. Of course, a minister is responsible for those lyrics. I don't intend to claim that someone else is responsible, that political responsibility is clear in such matters as this. At the same time, where it's the highest. A minister is here in a side room, and I'd like to remind him that in such a big case of opinion it is important that a minister be present for the discussion. But the report a year ago says, with the permission of a president: In addition to the government's voice speaking of international development cooperation, it is also possible to ensure that all contact with foreign countries and developing institutions are coordinated and in harmony with Iceland's foreign policy. And later, with President's permission: With the change, there will be a better overall view of the group, and it will be better to ensure that Iceland's legal policy is carried out. It will be easier to develop and enforce Iceland's focus and more opportunities to implement Iceland's compromise policies in a more targeted way. Now it is that I thought a minister would turn this into the report when he reexamined the case, and I was surprised that he did not. It is not appropriate for a minister to conceal in this way an institution under the Ministry. In the report with the Minister's New Conference, it's not written as it is. This means that in no way can be said otherwise than that the minister feels that these views are fundamental to the decision. Then I understand that the contrary can be concluded by the Minister: by not bringing the function of TheSSI into the Ministry is preventing all contact with foreign states and developing organisations in harmony and in harmony with Iceland's foreign policy, as well as by the Icelandic government speaking more than one voice about developing international cooperation. It is impossible but beyond the conclusion that a minister has the great and bad experience that the development organization repeatedly uses a different voice of international development than the Ministry of State. That's what's left. The minister, in my opinion, has not answered this to the extent necessary. I would like to, if a minister would speak here again, or even the chairman of the Committee, to ask: What is the risk of waiting for the disorder's peer review? I heard a minister's words earlier about how he believed that FAC had actually spoken and there was nothing to wait for. All right. It's a point of view. He also said that DOC would offer no suggestion in itself, but rather some sort of assessment. All right. I believe it when I hear the highest. Minister says so. But I ask, " What are the risks if there's a considerable popular opinion that there's an improvement in the case, waiting for the report that's coming in a year? ' I'm curious about all of this. We've been discussing this before, and I'm so disappointed that there's some overall policy regarding the Board of Directorates' organization at the highest level. A government over many other cases. In fact, there is an extraordinary lack of leadership in this government. You don't really know where she's going. Happily, it does not bring matters to the council, so what it does makes it more and less difficult for the council in all kinds of opportunities for personal care and the cutting down of high school. What leads to communication with the council is hardly visible except in matters of the highest degree. One minister says that there is nothing more than a system change, but he is willing to make a considerable effort and has apparently shook hands with the head of the committee, not to touch the matter, but to pump it through the council with old - fashioned bullying. I don't think working like that would make anyone decent. We have plenty of time to wait for the 2016 report and wait for the surveillance providers and the best known to reach the best conclusions in this precious and important category. I think we should. This group of subjects is simply too important. It's not to his credit if the ultimate. The minister of the state of Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson is going to be the minister of development in Iceland for war.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u183	A respectable president. As mentioned in the preceding discussion, this report contained three suggestions from Þórir Guðmundsson. One of them did not please him, having a basic organization. However, there was another idea to strengthen the status of the YSSI and to deliver projects from the Department of Development at the Iceland Development Network, so that the Ministry could monitor and so forth. I wondered how controversial such proposals would be if it were made here because we've only been here to see that there are some options. I have to tell you again that I was at that meeting in trouble. The foreign matter committee, when the case was taken out. At that meeting Þórir Guðmundsson was contacted. Then it was concluded that he believed that the possibility of strengthening the YES in itself was no less than to decompose the Agency. Then there was no discussion, it was taken out of a committee, and we all know how this developed. I wonder what. A senator would support such a suggestion or problem. A senator could see it. Also, I would like to ask myself, " Am I as controversial as the one mentioned here? ' I know she's not so controversial, but I wondered if she'd be happy. It is the suggestion to import the activities of the Ministry without decommissioning the Agency. It has been observed that this is what other nations have done, and it is an example that Þórir Guðmundsson developed. I wish for it. A senator teaches us only about the practicality of that possibility, i.e. If it were for the administrative part to participate a little more fully in the discussion, whether in a committee or in a Hall of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u184	A respectable president. Hv. A senator brings up a number of options. It's a little tricky, like we have some options! We on the board are just having a conversation, because the more part has not yet given a chance to communicate. After the terrorist attacks in Paris, the harmony that was discussed was the highest. Secretary of State participated in and the highest. Minister of the state, too - I see that those who are damaged here in the side hall, I don't know what exactly it is that inspires these cheery things - was extremely precious and was caught in the conference hall on those things. Therefore, as these lawsuits gain weight, it is more important that we handle it with some kind of reconciliation. I believe the jury needs to strengthen, that it should be the beginning point. We are concerned about the factors that will take place when the projects become part of the Ministry, that is an independent concern, and that we should be working on these matters in such a variety of coolness, I am afraid to say, that we are going to sit at a transverse level and discuss new alien laws, and we are going to discuss large and important matters - but this is not to be discussed. This category is not to be discussed but to drive a minister's decision through the council. I think it's the most serious thing here, but I would back up the idea that came up in the report to support Iceland's Development Network.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u185	A respectable president. I tend to agree that I would also support such a suggestion, but certainly one will notice that at times during the shooting. Councilmen and the highest. Ministers develop and discuss matters better, and without necessarily being in some kind of war, there is a conclusion that may not necessarily be accepted, but it certainly settles the point of methodology. A fine example of this is the laws of nature that we recently agreed on. I don't mind wondering how it was. A senator would personally take his party if he was the highest. Minister, please. A senator would have taken the initiative to make this change because he now wants the highest. The minister of state may have felt the need to do this assessment and try to change something. I've often wondered if there's any need for a change in heads, but people seem to want to go into some sort of change. Then I wonder what it's like. A senator imagined that such changes would be made. It would likely be called according to the opinion of men like Þórir Guðmundsson and others, in view of its basic administrative issues, not ideological differences in the order of development, that this is a conflict of shape, institutions, and arrangements. In fact, I find it quite amazing what we can do to argue here on a matter that we should be able to reach some common conclusion because there is no ideological differences in themselves regarding evolutionary cooperation, only how the founding system should be. I wonder what's wrong. A senator would change the arrangement if he felt the need to change it over his head.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u186	President. I think that would be the best. A minister would do well to contact the president now in consultation with the question. Chairman of the Committee to request a recess on this discussion. I think that would be the first step. Then, following an incident with more members from the council, he should be invited to a meeting on a joint decision. If it turns out that it is not, at least the meeting has been held. What I miss is that we are on the third day of a very long discussion, but we have not yet spoken. We're on the board of directors here, holding talks and calling for answers. They're pretty standard, they don't change from time to time, they don't deepen, and they're not listening. V.E.G. A minister specifically spoke of it earlier, and then not to himself, that it was good to listen, that was important. I agree, but it is especially important to do so in this regard. I can't deny that I'm stuck with the feeling that here's a fish underneath a rock. It is, in effect, completely incomprehensible that the government sector, the forwarding party and the Independence Party, 38 members of Congress, put so much political emphasis on this matter. It's actually completely incomprehensible, so as the discussion unfolds, the feeling of being caught by fish under a rock grows.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u187	V.E.G. President. I agree with that. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir's daughter's trouble is that it can be important to settle matters that are important to many people's interests. But this case may not be about morphological transformation, i.e. how development cooperation will be conducted, i.e. that a small agency with a small number of men will be brought into the Ministry, which also performs some part of development cooperation, is such a case that it cannot be settled at the council unless there is any reconciliation. We've been discussing this whole morphization for a week. Hv. Svavarsdóttir The last council was covered with a complete change in the Icelandic constitution. Counts 'em out. A senator that it is important to achieve a general political reconciliation with a developing cohesion agency but that it does not matter when it comes to changing the Icelandic constitution that was to be used by hand, a simple more part, a constitution once called a social treaty? I'm asking, "When Evolution's community is more important to you, why? " A senator but the Constitution?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u188	A respectable president. That was a pretty good question. I think I'm going to have to take it that way, because it would be cute if I said yes. However, I would like to say regarding the Constitution work that there is a board of directors at work. It is transverse, and it is now working in the current ideal period. There's a representative of the left green with full integrity, and I hope it applies to all agents on that committee. I hope so. A senator would agree that this matter is well under control, and hopefully we will soon see some conclusion in it so that the council can deal with the suggestions the committee provides. Regarding the Developmental Cooperative Work Programme, the question arises. Senator: Wait, is this such a matter that it can not be completed at the council? I'm asking why. In contrast, there is such a matter. In view of the fact that this is a delicate case, as well as a group of lawsuits that have so far been directed by transpirial approach and all foreign ministers, are there to make sure that developing cooperation is being done?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u189	V.E.G. President. I am now made to want to be at peace with all things. I can quite understand, though, that people don't agree with this, and they don't feel necessary and all, all right. I am amazed, though, that reconciliation is required and that 40 hours is spent in the press because that is not political peace. I don't think it's that way. However, during the last term, I felt that the Constitution was important in terms of reconciliation. Yet, those in charge felt that during the last term, and why. paritaprevir The major part of Svandís's Svavarsdóttir was St.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u190	Wasn't that a talk then?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u191	[[Up front.]] - Yes, it was then, but I understand. I would've understood you two had been talking for 40 hours, huh? paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson, if the other part were here to re-shape the constitution into a complete conflict with the smaller section, I would have totally understood it. I don't understand, however, when we have a case like this I might, but it's totally incomprehensible to me. [[Foreground on: Get to your position of government.]] I don't think this case is the nature of it, and I find it odd to hear it out of the mouth of those who fired the Constitution in the last term in the way it was done, that they feel absolutely necessary that this case is completely settled.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u192	President. I like reasoning, but I think it's pretty cool that an experienced linguist and former attorney general of the law is going through these lines of reasoning, and I'm going to start talking about something quite different. [[Up front.]] We're not talking about the constitution at all, and much less about the last terms. We're not talking about it at all. [[Up front.]] We are not talking about giving up the right to discuss matters and have disagreements because of the problem. A senator believes that at some point in the lives of the members of that council, they did not exercise their authority properly. He can have that opinion, that's all right, but he doesn't rob the members of that council of the rights to discuss and put a lot of weight in arguing that this is the first time in Iceland's development alliances. Let's talk about this, and let's discuss this in a very specific, more dignified president. Wait a minute. A senator reconsidering his approach in reasoning. This may work in some court case, but this is not supposed to work at the General.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u193	Mr. President. I am in my second speech on this matter; a case that some have chosen to call a morphization, such as a quirk. The Brauns the son of Níelsson did here earlier, but in fact, it's a bigger one. I think there are some sides there. The first is that we're discussing this matter, about putting down a development team organization, in the context of our policy in developing cooperation is in an upset state. It was here at the last assembly that a very ambitious plan was adopted for whom I and the Icelanders wanted to go on developing. This policy was adopted during difficult times in Icelandic budgets, but it was still a progressive step toward the goals established by the United Nations as to what so - called developed nations should put off GDP for development cooperation. This policy was adopted by a large percentage during the council by one principle. Then, in a new government, it was turned around, and there has never been any evidence for anything other than that suddenly people felt that they could not afford it. They could afford to take all kinds of action, to reduce hunting costs, to cut off wealth taxes, to ease the burdens of the richest Icelanders, who always have bigger and larger shares in the wastelands. In these measures, the administrative body was prepared to attack, but it was not ready to comply with an agreed development team, but was reversed. That's a decision I consider to be a disgrace to the government and to this government. This is one of the issues I feel most seriously about the present government, because it's about how people see the world, the world's affairs. Here we are still members of the richest nations of the world, in place of 11 if I recall correctly in the latest list of economic wealth, and we are so far from the UN's medieval goals that half of it was enough. At the same time, the British agreed on a plan to reach 0.7%. They were in a crisis. I strongly disagreed with many of the things Cameron's right government did at the time in international affairs, but I can't help but say: All right, these matters they're going to start over political debates. They place these issues in the context of the fact that although they do not agree on how the funds are spent, they have a moral obligation to live up to these goals. But here: No, we were too broke. The oldest richest nation in the world is too thin to live up to previous plans. V.E.G. In June, the minister proposed a strategy that expected 0.23% of gross domestic product. She wasn't smart. She wasn't finished here. Then comes the bill, which brings it down to 0.21%. I find it quite sad to say, Mr. President, that the discussion and policy being taken here at the Allied Parliament on Developmental Cooperation is not about us fulfilling our obligation in the society of the nations. It is not about how we can contribute to a peaceful world. This is not possible in the world today, since there has rarely been a greater need for development and the need for peaceful relations between people. I used to say earlier that developing cooperation is the basic focus of the Icelandic foreign service, and I view it as one of the main objectives. What can a small nation like Iceland do besides share knowledge, experience, and wealth with others, sharing with others the privileges we enjoy in the nations? This should be our primary objective; this should be what we can unite about, can be proud of. Even if we're here to argue about domestic matters, we should be able to share this as our moral obligation. But we're not talking about this. We are discussing putting down the profession that has taken place in the Icelandic government system. That's our contribution to the jury. To be honest with you, Mr. President, a very sad deposit. Development at work - it's been done here in discussions, and that's what I feel is part of the discussion on this particular subject, that there has not been any human, either from a management team or from a government position, who had nothing else to say about the Agency than that she had done her part properly. However, it is being proposed to put it down, which is contrary to other developments in the administration, which have been emphasised on implementing specific projects into the professions, then strengthening the management and monitoring role of employers. The Directorateship here at the General Assembly agreed on our National Institute of Education, which was intended to do just that, to put out specific projects in a professional institution, thus more clearly establishing the Ministry's surveillance and administrative role. There is much to say about the precise way that this is being accomplished, but it seemed to be the line that the greater part took them. Today's administrative sector, the same administrative body that was here a few months ago, speaks as if it were the best part, and it could be merged or added to the State Department of State. It's, Mr. President, not a whole bridge in the way men think these things in the government home. There is no overall policy. There is no holistic thought in how we will divide ourselves to a group of lawsuits and with litigation. It's not right to say what's happened here that there's no change in surveillance. Of course it will. Now the Ministry has a surveillance role for one of the most professional institutions, a developing research agency. Then there are other Rapporteurs, National Reexamination and Independent Rapporteurs. Of course, this will change when these cases are brought into the Ministry of State, even though firewalls are in between, as has been said. This has been done elsewhere, has been claimed, certainly, in much larger units in which we look almost at independent organizations within the council. Many questions remain regarding how these projects have been accomplished. This has been pointed out, on the Foreign Affairs Committee at the last council, that this journey was taken in the Netherlands. This was a report. She didn't come out very well. The Dutch government decided not to accept this report, but it is also available for reading. So it is certainly possible to say that there is much more to go to this operation. The big issue, Mr. President, I believe is that this is an attack on bringing up a ministry agency, an institution we agree on has been a strong voice for the seminary, where professional knowledge has been built and given information, for example, through a magazine published by the Agency. They're taking this expertise and putting it in the State Department without seeing how the seminars are going to depend on inside it. I don't think the answers have been offered sufficiently convincingly. I've mentioned this through information services many times, and I know from my own eyes that the ministry information is completely different from the information sharing of a trade agency. It is enough to include the countless organizations that we possess of independence in the way they communicate information, which are far removed from the political power. After this change, there will be no other officer of the development team. It will hear directly under political authority. It's a variation of nature. It is an amazing variation in nature in the course taken by the present administrative body, which is an ambitious in this category; which, apparently, is no interest in fulfilling the duties we have in the society of the nations. I think it's almost, when we put this into context with the existing strategy for developing cooperation, that this group is eventually hidden here, transferred him into the Ministry, demeaning him as little as possible while it should be a flagship in our foreign policy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u194	Mr. President. I was very, very happy with the content and essence of my talk. In fact, when I look back, I was one of the most sincere, even the most intense VG presidents in my life. This is most important because of the moral evasion they have not only had at this class I believe, as VG presidents have thought, that they are the essence of our foreign policy. Sadly, in our time it is rare to speak in that way and to say plainly that we are going to give up our wealth to nations that are still breaking out of deep poverty. The most shameful thing I think has happened in recent years is that the current government literally violated the agreement that the Allied Council of Iceland had concluded with the oppression of African nations by pushing aside, throwing away almost the plan adopted by the General Assembly. Hv. A senator traced this number. Of course, it is quite impossible to look at the fact that we, the 11th richest nation in the world, the second - richest nation in Europe according to recent numbers, are among those of the averagers today who are among the richest of 1 percent in the world, and that we have had to watch a government resort to a plan that, though the government groups had approved and extended at their time, is terrible. Hv. A senator attributed that last year's program was submitted that the contributions would now be at least 0.23% of gross domestic product, 0.21%. V.E.G. The government did not keep their word from last year. That's a lot more than 500 million. What does what? A senator to remember the plan approved by the Allied Council? [[The president calls.]] According to it, we should now have 0.46%, twice as much, 4 billion more. Is this not a sign of this, along with the fate of a developing co-worker, that this group is in a state of confusion and has been pushed back? [[The president calls.]] He has no attention to the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u195	Mr. President. They're setting this party totally aside. It's not just the bill we're discussing, it's the emphasis that's been laid, the lines that have been put in the budget, in the contribution plan of the highest. Minister. This is a group of paintings that have become cornered, a group of paintings that should have been our pride and flagship. I said before, we should go above the political lines of conflict. Other nations have done so. This has been done regardless of the limitations of the governments that have been under control because they have seen the importance of the matter. The importance of the matter is that we live in a world where good things are wrong. It is one of the principal sources of worldwide war. It is one of the main sources of the move we have just begun to see the beginning. It will also appear as we examine the effects of climate change. Therefore, developing cooperation should be our flagship to minimize the influence of such discrimination. This is fundamental. For my part, I say that the government sitting right now, and the administrative body, is offering additional contributions to the National Church. If you care about the church's message, which makes it clear that if you have two coats, you should give another one, then the development team should have an even more noble place there. I wondered as we discuss morality in terms of exactly how the superior part of government feels is compatible with what we have called Christian morality in this country, to throw this class away so completely, and thus to the message that it is our duty to distribute the goods in a more balanced way than we do in the world today, and not to look up at the misery of others, and to look beyond it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u196	Mr. President. A Bible - based senator like me is happy when he's in a hurry. paritaprevir and the chairman of the VG Psalms here at the council chamber quotes from the sacred book. I completely agree with any principles it presents. Hv. A senator mentioned in his earlier talk what happened in Britain. Of course, it is quite remarkable that in the process of creating conservatives, avoiding very right - handed men, it gives evidence of developing cooperation. I have told many times that I deeply respect Britain's prime minister because, for example, he set out a tremendous campaign in Africa that is supposed to have saved tens of thousands of children from death. That's very nice of you. It was generous, it was in total opposition to the economic developments in that country. How prosperity and prosperity are affected in the United Nations is remarkable. While we were in the Depression, 2011 we agreed on a development team, which made much more donations available today. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But as soon as a new government takes over and looks in the face of increasing wealth, it will twist back. [[The president calls.]] How can that be?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u197	Mr. President. I think that the reason why different governments in different parts of the political spectrum have managed to put these issues and give them the place they should be is that for them there are so many reasons. It is not just the evidence that I quoted earlier that is merely a matter of Christian morality. There is also evidence about the general equation, and that is also a reason for justice. But most important is the argument that can be called a self - interest argument. For certainly, the interests of Western nations are of their own, strengthening other nations to help themselves to prevent future problems. I mentioned earlier climate change. Can we see what their precise influence will be on the world's move? We see great prophecies about how this will take place. Do we not rather try to strengthen them to help ourselves, as has been true of the modern - day United States? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u198	A respectable president. I cut it at the end of the day. Like others, a senator has identified such agencies as the Road Building. Why are we dragging the road model forward? Yes, it is because of an enormously specialized project being carried out there. The Lenska has been here to place specialized tasks such as these into institutions so that the construction is in one place and monitoring is elsewhere, i.e. The strategy is held at the General Assembly, followed by the strategy. In the case of ministers and various government officials, they have found this to be completely incompatible, what is being done in the Vega versus the development community. I'm worried about that angle and perspective, I think it's exactly the same. There is an enormously specialized project. This is a trade, and it takes a lot of studios, both of which are road construction and development teamwork. So I want to ask you why. A senator only into this, what she's trying to say is that these views of the administrations mean, whether this does simply mean that developing cooperation is not as important as road design. Whether she agrees with it or if this is the way you look at it, that there is nothing comparable. Yes, one is a road, and the other is a development team, but it is the same professional view behind holding this in a special institution.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u199	Mr. President. I believe this change, as I said earlier, results in the fact that the person responsible for the decision of evolutionary cooperation has actually become the political head of the seminary, i.e. Minister. I believe that the same thing applies to the development of a research organization as to other knowledge-based institutions, to tell the Vega program, that it is constantly making political decisions that are taking place here through the council, and ministers are taking the initiative. Then there are wide-scale implementation decisions that are related to the roads, bridges, and various other such factors, which are based on a great deal of professional knowledge. If we were to do so, it would be unnatural. The Minister of the Interior Minister would be constantly signing such decisions to move the area about five feet [5 m] here or a station of about seven feet [7 m] there. It would be strange, for example, if a minister of education was always checking out what an electronic magazine should buy for the National Library. As with the road structure and other such institutions, development teamwork is a professional and gives them laws that can provide expertise. It's been done in the Agency. Therefore, I believe it is reasonable to believe that certain professions will take care of the situation while the political lines are deposed and then at any given time by the council. It's the big lines to lay off the politicians, but the knowledge should be cultivated. I think we must wonder, when this is done, that the value of professional knowledge naturally diminishes. The nature of a ministry case is wide - wide, where you are not necessarily recruiting experts with very deep knowledge of each matter but exactly people with the broad knowledge of large language groups. [[The president calls.]] [[President (ThorsS): As the members of the council will expect to notice, it is time to tease us, but the president has kept his eye on seconds.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u200	A respectable president. I appreciate that answer. The point is, developing cooperation is not just some place to go. At the other end, there are people who really need support. This support has been given, in a very good and powerful way, by the development network. Why is that? Yes, it is because developing cooperation is a skill that people are specially qualified for, and in the developing working agency, they are gathered with an enormous knowledge. This has been a huge failure of many times during history during development. That's a mistake people don't want to repeat. That's why this is a sensitive group of subjects. Societyal groups and entire nations can be profoundly negative by means of an evil development aid. It's not a place we want to be. That is why the way they have done these things has been built up by special institutions to keep knowledge there. [[The president calls.]] This institution has been particularly praised for its success in being flexible and how successful it is in working with the local people. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u201	Mr. President. I believe this bill is part of a larger picture, expressed in the current government plans for voluntary contributions to development. I think the ambitious vision of the future is also reflected in this bill, that it's something that can be brought, entered as some government agency. This means that mine has not been looking forward to the development and development of the expertise we possess. But I think it rhymes with the plan we've seen. I sure would have hoped it would look different. We have not yet seen a revised plan for this assembly. It would have been appropriate to bring it here with this bill, and then we could just have had the big picture, that we don't think it's the flagship in our foreign policy. [[The president calls.]] We do not view this as our primary duty in the international community.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u202	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a good and meaningful talk, and especially for starting the discussion on a moral level and considering developing cooperation based on moral views, because they matter. But it is naturally the subject that in its basic moral nature it is. The joy that such a thing has in the famous history of helping someone better by teaching him to hunt than by giving him a fish. The fact that knowledge is there and that it is always being developed and developed for the better is important in this category. In this regard, the testimony to the work of the Development Agency has been very positive. I would like to ask myself some questions from the latter part of each part of my talk. A senator on the founding and building of the development of an independent business agency that then submits to surveillance and plan, strong lines from its managers. Hv. A senator is experienced as a minister in controlling both the work within the Ministry and, to some extent, independent institutions. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: What danger did she face in that change? Hv. For example, a senator mentioned the professional dangers of information. I'd like to hear more about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u203	Mr. President. First as a boy. A senator made it his previous subject, making me really angry to see that as soon as the government boasts of economic benefits in this country, they don't feel that there is any reason to give up on developing jobs. They know very well the results of Iceland's development cooperation. The government is well aware that our assistance, for example, has helped women to have healthy, living children. That our assistance has prevented the spread of disease in these poorest areas of the world. The two - side development team of Icelanders is one of the poorest countries in the world, a state that may be at the bottom of 20 of the world's poorest countries while we are in 11th of the richest. We do well to ask ourselves, " Do I really feel that I am? ' Whether it's all right for us to cut down, as it were, our support that matters so much for these people. For the latter part of the counter-array. Of course, the senator is a huge difference between the two organizations; the relations of the Ministers with professionals are entirely different, with the heads of the institutions, who run professionally in those institutions, and then respond to the minister and the community with that responsibility, or with the minister's dealings with the minister of his Ministry, who hear directly under the ministers of the house. Of course, there are other ways to communicate. Of course, this is a big change in the way the group is treated. I'm not going to interfere with the fact that the State Department's Development Office is an ambitious people and people who know the tribe. [[The president calls.]] Of course, this interaction is quite different.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u204	A respectable president. I thank the counter, and I accept the righteous rage. A senator says that the indifference of governments and the little emphasis that you feel is in the air when it comes to developing cohesion. I'm sorry, but the bill we're discussing here is an indication of a certain lack of ambition in the seminary. The word I was looking for in my previous answer was policy. What I would like to ask myself about the policy of an independent agency is that there is quite another conversation between the minister and the executives of a professional organisation that plays a role, he employs himself professionally, as well as internally. I'm concerned about this lack of ambition, that this will reduce ambition. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u205	Mr. President. I would have chosen to the highest. A minister would have come and responded to what I said in my speech and would tell us if he was planning to bring in a plan for development cooperation and to see if it will match the budget. I would have chosen to hear the highest point of view. A minister of that, because we're just talking about a part of the overall picture here. It will be discussed only in this context, the all - out context of this ambitious spirit. We have not yet seen a new suggestion for the development of development cooperation, as is the case with so many other matters that do not enter the council. Meanwhile, this agency is moving into the Ministry, and I agree with it at any moment. The senator here spoke, that I think it smells like the great form of inadequacy. You have no feeling that these discussions are going to open up a bit and over, show ambition, boldness, and give even if there was only 0.46% of GDP. [[The president calls.]] I'm not asking that one of the two coats be given for developing cooperation, but at least the goals approved by the council for no too many years in a much worse year journey.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u206	Mr. President. It's not a big deal. I thought it was the highest. A minister skimmed in his language slightly over the comments that have been made in this discussion. Either we don't understand the matter properly or the highest. A minister does not take note of the material criticism that has taken place in the matter and minimizes comments that have been made and consider them to be of little value. He also talks like the agency in himself, and her activities remain unchanged within the Ministry. There will be little change from what is present, and no financial savings will come from this project or from professional requirements for developing cooperation. You ask yourself, " What's the game done if it's the best? ' Ministers believe everything will remain unchanged? Why is it not possible to meet somewhere else in this matter to make it possible to include differing views on the subject and the activities to be done properly on the part of us Icelanders in the future and to be aware that we are going to reduce professional factors and monitor how the money is treated into development and does not profit from making good use of the remaining subs of other nations on donations for this group? It would have been good if a minister had established a strategy on these matters, how we Icelanders are going to spit into the palms of these materials and bring more funding into developing cooperation and show that we are a nation of nations and, in fact, rich compared to the poor nations that are involved, and we have taken good care of with the financial resources of a developing research agency. I thought it was the highest. A minister gently skated through all of this. What was most evident in his case is that going to Malawi would have been good and good. I have no doubt that a minister has been received well, although he has not decided to invite officers or directors of the Development Organization on that trip. In this matter, it has been repeatedly emphasized that the Agency is exemplary, and the National Re-evaluation has repeatedly been used in paying down annual bills. V.E.G. Ministers have thought that this incorporation to the Ministry to strengthen the link between development and foreign work, will ensure that the Iceland foreign policy is joined. One might ask, " Has this been a serious matter? ' That question has been asked at a National Affairs Committee meeting. State Department representatives have been persistent in asking about the cooperation of the Ministry of State with the SISSI and whether there are examples of dealing with foreign parties on the part of the Agency that have not been in harmony with foreign policy. It seems that it could not have been criticized for the Agency's policies, which were consistent with the Ministry's policy. It has also been noted that the workers of the Development Agency were highly critical, as reported in their reviews. They count, by permission of the President: ... that it would be desirable to move more projects in development cooperation to the DSSI and to promote the seminary in this way, as there are a lot of evidence to support it. So we strongly suggest that the Council fulfills the promise of increased contributions to development cooperation and support the institution that has the highest professional strength in that area in Iceland. - Which is a development research agency. What does a minister have to do on such a journey when this institution has everything to bear and the report that has been greatly referred to in this discussion, the peer - producing OECD, DEC, is coming? Then you can see if anything can be corrected and improved, rather than refer to something from 2008 that does not pass a checkup, that it suggested that the user should be shaken into this operation and that their decision should be followed. Minister. The evidence shows that this arrangement can be taken in the same way. In view of this situation, I can agree with some way to meet different viewpoints rather than with the fact that a minister makes such a playful move and does this only to the point where he is going. He has spoken to the personnel of the Agency so that he does not have to reason with them in particular.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u207	That's not true.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u208	There is a word against it. The understanding is that there is no need to support this institution in a specific way, for there is no clear evidence to support entering the Ministry of State. Þórir Guðmundsson, who made the report referred to as the reason for this intervention in the Ministry, suggested more ways. If so, I would be quite ready to seek the media in this matter. I've previously said in my language that I thought it was the best. Ministers are a man to further show that he was so big a political bitch that he could try to settle that view and meet criticism and look for ways to get it across in a tripolitic reconciliation. This is not a political issue. Rather, it is what our Iceland has to do well, development cooperation, assistance to our poorest brothers in poorer lands. Of course, there is shame in the small percentage of GDP to this series of lawsuits. He'd have to be more. V.E.G. A minister has had to back up his idea of raising his share. It appears to remain the same proportion of gross domestic product, 0, 21%. I'm not gonna give up challenging the highest. A minister now to demonstrate courage and courage and take this matter out of the pits that he himself has put into the case by means of a monotonous presentation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u209	A respectable president. I felt like a dog. A senator was very frustrated with the answers given earlier by the minister when he considered the key points we have been criticizing. It seemed to me that what he said was some sort of symphony, how upset they are about it. I felt that there is either no great understanding of what evolution is or no interest in the case. This is indicated by some belief that this class, above any of the other cases that require professional knowledge, is rolled into the Ministry and put in a small ward, is all right. That's what worries me. I'm also sorry that when the minister responds to the criticism that this has gone through a committee quickly - in two days after the review, which is very unusual - it is no wonder because it has been so much discussed during the last assembly. I don't think people are going to be able to handle this any more. This is of concern to me because developing cooperation in my mind is one of the key elements of such countries as us who have much and have much, who are among the richest in the world. That's what makes me proud Iceland that we too give up. I fear what will happen to these projects when they enter the Ministry, because there is a greater transparency and less accessible what humans are doing. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the Parliament whether it believes that a project in the region of the Development Agency could begin to disappear in the coming years if these members continue to sit in charge. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u210	Mr. President. I'm not going to take it so deep in this year that I think these projects are about to disappear. I have no doubt that ambition will remain in the Ministry of State to take good care of these matters. I believe that, of course, there is professional business at the State Department, no one is questioning that, but there may not be anything as professional as there is in the development agency. It must be respected. It's created a lot of manpower in the development network, and I don't think it's good to be diluted out. I believe that one should continue to be left alone in a special agency on this urgent mission and not be drawn into the Ministry. There are countless other human assignments. I believe that there could be other projects that could cloud these assignments, and this might be kind of a nail soup, but that may not be true, but sometimes it could even be that way. This is not fully evident when many other projects are addressed. Governmentally, this is very bad, and the Agency is taking over the surveillance role of the General for Developmental Development Agency. As such, some non-called members are expected to handle the independent assessment and the monitoring of these funds - it is not advisable to make a clear recommendation on how to carry all the funds that are under it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u211	A respectable president. I'm saying there's a lot of fancy professionals all over the board. But it's not about that, it's about what they were designed to do professionally. Once a project has been completed in such a way as specific and experienced, into a development - working agency and grafting them into the Ministry's projects, each time it becomes a political whim that allows employees to handle these matters with the best professional skills they know. That's what you're worried about. While the jury is in a special institution, it is harder, for a minister who is not interested in doing this thing, to slow down very quickly because it will be so clear and beneficial, since it is an institution. Second, it has to somehow come here through the council, whether through a budget or a change in a law or a demolition as you are trying to do here. That's what you might be interested in when it comes to this professional extracurricular development teaming in Iceland. People know about this. The members of the board know that putting together one place and a check, that's not professional. It's unprofessional. It's not a modern government. The conduct and monitoring of the same procedure should not be the same. I don't know any better than a government thought has done that many times since it has been true. In this case, I think it's something that I think can be difficult for this trade, development teamwork, that men are stoning it together in this way, making the nail soup mentioned earlier. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u212	Mr. President. Yes, it is that which is critical, such as ASI, has come under criticism. I don't think that the criticism that developed these cases has been discussed well with a foreign press committee. Of course, there is knowledge in the Ministry, but there is always a danger that other interests will get mixed up like commercial interests. Who's the foreman, too? We know that the director of the current development network is the captain of his ship and is the manager of the financial management program. But what will it be like in the Ministry? Who will be there as a responsible servant, holding the care not to be slacking off, but to give up and fight for the money to this group of paintings? V.E.G. The minister mentioned earlier that there would be ample transparency by the exchange of funds, those who come into the Ministry, to this seminary, and by each body of funds, the amount of money would be shown. But that's not enough. By having this in an independent institution, there is much greater force to get more money into these important projects and also to follow them professionally so that the funds are most useful to those who need them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u213	V.E.G. President. I hear what you're saying. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, who speaks like many other government opposers, says that there is no evidence for this change. When you do, of course, wonder if those in charge of opposers who have taken up the matter have not read the comments using the bill. The Bible plainly states: Developing cooperation is one of the main foreign policy of Iceland and one of the largest cases the Ministry does. [...] Moving TSSI into the Ministry is ensuring that all contact with foreign countries and developing institutions are coordinated and consistent with Iceland's foreign policy, as well as that which the Icelandic government uses as a single voice regarding international development cooperation. Then there is a special chapter on the synergy and practicality: ▪ Moving the project onto one hand is simplifying the organization. A better overall vision will be gained over the group of subjects and policy development will become more targeted in the case of one responsible responsible responsible person. [...] With all developing cooperation in one hand, increasing the power of projects, promoting flexibility and co-ordination, and preventing the overlap of policy development and implementation. It speaks of practicality and harmony. It seems to me that this ideal institution, the development community, is in a category for the administration of the U.S.R. and TVR. It is as if some things are not to be moved if men point out the obvious practicality or potential for practicality. So I have to ask, "Is there a problem? " A senator refusing that when the projects are like this in both places, that practicality is not involved or that it is possible to keep them on one hand? Or do people view taxpayers as no matter how money is spent only if the agency is allowed to live? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Form doesn't matter. It's how we use the money.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u214	Mr. President. There is no strong argument in the former president of the police society. If they were to argue over all things, then it must be the policy of the present government to draw to the Ministry all the existing institutions. It has been observed that the most highly controlled institutions in the country are the local organisations. It has been prescribed by Government Accounting, as well as by the OECD, DEC development committee, that both professional and professionally the funds she is able to work with are handled. The efforts to back up the report and the leading party of the greater part have nothing to do with the wording of practicality and practical savings that cannot be demonstrated. The Office of Public Financial Affairs says something about the future that funds might be saved, possibly. It's not too deep in this year. Hence, it has to be said that it is not enough to bring some list and request that all of this become much, much better. But better for who, do I ask? Better for those governments now who want to cut everything down on a nail that has to do with welfare, development, and the well - being of those less fortunate? I don't have much faith in the concern that comes from speaking to him in that way. A senator makes it practical and useful. [[The president calls.]] I don't trust the contents of their words.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u215	V.E.G. President. You can disagree with this reasoning, but you can't say there's no evidence to explain it. We can talk about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u216	It's just a list.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u217	That, of course, is evidence. This is exactly the same, and it may be expected that when two parties handle a class that overlaps in much of the way, it will be more practical to have it in one unit. It's just a way out of the way of talking about that it's best for every institution under the Ministry to just go into the Ministry. Each of us, of course, is a question of how these tasks overlap and what may be convenient. It is not that all institutions should enter the Ministry with the same logic. It's an institution that plays a role. She's very small. I can totally understand that this is the way the group thinks it's better to be paid. That may well be so. We can reason on that. True, we've been reasoning about it for 40 hours, okay, at the council, it's been reasoned. [[Not you.]] I've always been here a lot, but.... paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson. [[Up front.]] No. I'm just saying, of course, there's evidence. We can disagree with them, we can try to bring them down, but the lawsuit that there's no evidence and it's just a good decision, it's trying to destroy evolutionary cooperation, etc., conspirators, of course, are just bullshit. Let's get the argument. Let's finish it. It may well be that governments may be able to convince many members of the board that there is a better place to live than in this case. Let's do it. Let's get it over with. [[The point is, these are claims...]] There is a general argument that it can be practical when two parties handle things that overlap. It is well - known and has nothing to do with it. We can disagree. We might think it would be better to have a special agency around it. We might argue in some way. All right. But there is evidence. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u218	Mr. President. Yes, I think this is more like statements than arguments because of reason. A senator would never argue with that claim. That should be why. A senator would do so that he could stand on his own in this matter. [[Up front.]] When making statements, you need to point out the reasons why you say something. That's just the way it is. This case will be held at the Ministry. A senator says it's better when two parties agree on things. Can you have two captains on the same ship? I think there's gonna be a lot of tension. [[Take it up in front of somebody else.]] Yes, someone else will be dumped. That's exactly what they're doing. [[Up front.]] The captain of the sailboat, the European Development Agency, the best run-in in Iceland, with all references to it, is to quit because he's probably done too well and someone else is going to take over who is totally unclear how to prove to be, both financially and professional. I feel like there's a case coming out of my face. The senator, in view of his claims, should we wait for further evidence and if there's anything in there that some gradual person is waiting for, which is coming from the DOC and not charge for such a big deal of it just. Because this is the only business of the foreign minister, because all you have to do is keep your face and run some shit through here. Of course, this lawless government has everything to do with itself. [[The president calls.]] It may also be good, because it is such a miserable government, and what would come from it wouldn't be on many fish.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u219	Mr. President. I'm going to hope to the highest. The minister of foreign affairs is near because so much was asked for his presence. Now my situation is that I must complete my case in five minutes because of the highest. The minister wasn't here when I was dead, Mr. President, giving my second keynote address in this discussion with him. So I'm going to go straight to the questions -- or may I, Mr. President, pause my case so that my time will be reduced, and I'll be tested where the highest level is. Secretary of state? I've had enough, it was my plan to the highest. Minister would sit here in the hall and join in the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u220	That's what the President's gonna do.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u221	Then we stop the clock.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u222	The president has received word that the minister of foreign affairs has temporarily left the house and offered to do so. A senator claims that he will be put on the rosary later on at the highest level. Secretary of state has returned to a meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u223	I'll take it, Mr. President, but it would normally be best to postpone the discussion until the highest level. Minister's back in town. V.E.G. The president is well aware of the circumstances here, that we have requested it, and we rely on that from the highest point of view. A minister is finally in the area, and he'd be there for the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u224	The President will determine where the highest level is. A minister is and tells him that his presence is required, as previously stated.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u225	V.E.G. President. I see why. 4th, including That's the north side. " Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, very well, wants to give his speech to which he has five minutes to present at the highest. Secretary of state. Hv. paritaprevir In his 20 - minute speech, J. Sigfússon's stylus and ten - minute talk has requested that it be done. And already it's to the highest. The minister of foreign affairs has left the house and cannot listen to what he has heard. I think there's nothing more to do than postpone a meeting for five or ten minutes while the foreign minister returns and returns to the councilhouse. Now I don't know who's next at the speaker's file, whether it's me or someone else, but I say in my own way that in my next speech, I'll ask for the highest. The minister of state is here because I intend to go through the reviews that have been discussed, including the following: From the Red Cross of Iceland, which is a strong comment to seven articles of the bill. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u226	A respectable president. Now all the water falls to the ground of animals. First, the highest. The minister of state is not interested in the discussion of this matter, which he himself is in, however, that is not a reason why other members of Congress are spending evening meetings in discussing this matter, especially when it is taken into account that this has been reported with very good notice, including. half what. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. the son of Sigfússon, that he would have straight questions to the minister. Hence, it was expected that the minister would show the minimum respect for the council to be with his own discussion, especially when the minister is the only member of the Theocratic Ministry School who supports a bill that no member of the Independence Party seems to support, and necessary that the only member of the Parliament who supports the matter is involved in the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u227	A respectable president. I must agree with that wish to the highest. Minister of State, come here and discuss this matter with us. He gave a talk earlier, and I noticed that when there were ideas, people started talking. Of course, when there is no conversation, the idea does not develop. Other exports, such as installing the YSSI in the Ministry, were supported by short talk and still did not disseminate the Agency. This idea has not been discussed seriously with the highest degree. Secretary of state since she set up at the Senate Hall. I would've wanted in the highest. The minister of state rather for answers to what he sees in avoiding the idea of strengthening the YES rather than putting it down.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u228	Mr. President. I think it's right that we wait until the highest level. Minister's coming to the house. Didn't have the highest. Ministers of great endurance during the discussion. It may have been just over two hours with a lunch break. It is not long for a man in such a responsible position that he cannot sit here for more than two hours under the biggest case he thinks he has to come through the council. It is bad that he is not here and respectfully listen to the discussion, participate in it, and answer for what is asked. I feel like the highest. A minister should show all members of the council the respect remaining on the rosary tonight to sit out and listen to them. I'll make that claim to the highest degree. President to interrupt a meeting until Minister is in the building.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u229	A respectable president. There's a 2nd issue in this case. At the council. Foreign Minister was present throughout the 1st. He came here today and gave a talk and attended the discussion for quite a while. But mostly, I came up here to correct a problem. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar, a member of the United States Parliament, who once again states that there is only one member of the General Assembly who supports this matter. I'll remember it again before then. A senator that went through the government. It went through both sides of the administration, both independent party and forward party. It went to the State Department and was released from the Foreign Affairs Committee with a greater part of the Parliament's Committee on Foreign Affairs, both at this legislature and the last, so it is clear that the matter must be supported. But we are not allowed to see if there is support because there is a great need to express ourselves on this matter, and I am not going to belittle it. [[The president calls.]] That is why I urge the president to continue this meeting so that we can get more good speeches at the moment. ... inconsistencies.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u230	A respectable president. It's always this attitude: Yes, it's just great to hear the good talks of the senators in the state of the government, to continue this meeting. But there's no one here to discuss this matter with us, that's the problem. Therefore, we repeatedly call for people to come up here and answer our questions, explaining why, first of all, this case needs to be run in the way that is being done, secondly, why the matter is so important that it needs to be handled quickly by a committee in just two days despite the great protests of the committee. I don't know how fast people are going through this, especially controversial matters. I remember that even in controversial business cases on the job board, however, the majority of the share has at least allowed the less part to go through a discussion of matters before it enters the council, at least in most cases. [[The president calls.]] That's what we're protesting here not to be done. I ask that it be reviewed with members of the council how it was handled by a committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u231	Mr. President. I am now a reasonable man, and I have some sympathy for the highest. Minister of state to come from both outside and there in the past through a very long and probably very persistent meeting with the candidates. I understand that he needs to go home and get some rest before he gets here. However, this is the case. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon was not able to ask the highest. Minister of questions here earlier tonight. However, in the discussions about the President's conference board, he said that he would ask him questions and the highest. So, considering his promise, the minister of foreign affairs must be present to answer questions, to be here already. A senator gives his speech. He could see it on the rosary. I'd like to ask the highest. President if they're expecting the highest power. Secretary of state, because knowing it would be very helpful for Congress tonight.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u232	Mr. President. I think it's time for a general president to show himself some respect and interrupt this meeting until the minister is back in the house. If we find out that he's not going to be here tonight, we'll call off a meeting. This is not acceptable, Mr. President. I begin to expect the President of the Parliament to show some dignity on behalf of the council in this dealings with the minister of foreign affairs. This isn't working. I was given my speech here on the sixth hour of the day against my protests before the Supreme Court. The minister came. And both back then and last week, I had repeatedly sought the presence of a foreign minister to ask him questions. As long as the minister of foreign affairs spoke, I would sit on the throne so that I could not answer him. I believe that my rights are being violated as a senator and the council if I have no right to have a word with the Minister of Foreign Affairs because of the way he behaves this relationship. There are quite new times in the Council if there's no weight. If it isn't for these wishes, I will demand a meeting on the Committee to Presidency, where we both sit, the President and I, and take up this case there.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u233	Mr. President. I just have to agree with the members of the council who have come up here and declared a real shock that foreign ministers are no longer in the hall. It is not the first time in discussions about the development of a research organization that is seen under his feet on the way out of the house when this matter should be discussed least with the people who want to discuss it. This is a very important thing. This is clearly sensitive and intense, and it is minimal at the highest level. Minister of Foreign Affairs to be present for the discussion. It has been requested many times. I don't understand the word that goes up or down in the council. I agree with the people who have come up here that the discussion is to be postponed until the minister of foreign affairs arrives and is to be terminated. We cannot be invited to the highest level. The minister of the foreign office runs from house to house in the middle of a discussion, especially when asked for his presence in answer to questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u234	A respectable president. I would also want to ask questions to the highest level. Secretary of state in my speech, but I'm on the rosary for a second speech on this matter. I wonder at the advantage of that, i.e. ... toputtheYSSI into the Ministry of State without laying down the Agency, and I think he needs a material discussion. I'd really appreciate it if I did. The minister of foreign affairs appealed and explained why that idea is bad. If she does, there is no need to talk more about it. On the other hand, at the council, our problem is often that the conversation is not between two poles but that is largely discussed by one, but it will not be settled and the discussion will not continue. But she's supposed to go on. She needs to go on. That's what we're here for. V.E.G. Secretary of state needs to respect that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u235	Mr. President. In effect, it is a question of whether a word should stand. I understood a president today in a way that the secretary of state would come here to participate in discussions. You can't call it discussion at the highest level. Ministers sit here and listen to a few talks, and come here for one speech and answer four answers. There's no discussion. We have members of Parliament, including some of them. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, who has proclaimed that they want to have a place to speak at the highest. Minister and ask him a few questions. It's just their legal rights, according to the state of Congress. Ministers and also, which may be the most important, according to the statement. Mr. President is here today. I agree with that. Senator Stingrimur J. Sigfússon is a disgrace. That's not something anyone can offer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u236	Mr. President. As we have seen, there was a delay. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon requested to ask questions at the highest level. Minister. V.E.G. Of course, a minister would be able to monitor the rosary and see when it was. A senator would be on the rosary, but he chose to disappear immediately. A senator appeared in a talk chair. It is strange that the minister of foreign affairs did not pay more attention, or was it deliberately that he disappeared? All of this makes the atmosphere of the Assembly Hall so much more important to governments, to the highest level. Minister. As a result, the minister of foreign affairs treats the council so badly and in effect shows disrespect that it cannot be offered to the council, the highest organization in the United States. This isn't the Neanderthal Commissary.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u237	Mr. President. As is known, I tend to defend the highest. Minister, also assistant minister, and would like to do so now too. I don't remember any better than I remember. Minister has been here with all 1st. Um... he's been here on part of the 2nd. and he has answered four answers, giving a talk today. So I feel that the matter, which is not much bigger than this, has been given a great deal of material discussion, argument over and over. So I think it's a little too much weather for nothing or nothing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u238	V.E.G. President. I come back here to repeat that I believe that the meeting will simply be terminated. It's very good to have a good time. paritaprevir The Brynjar of Níelsson's son shall come down and defend the minister. He's former president of the law society, and a very strong lawyer, and definitely fine in defending, but I think he's defending a very bad cause right now, if I'm to say exactly what it is. This is a very important matter, and the appointment of a minister has been repeated. Yesterday, it was reported that he would be here today after he came from abroad to answer questions and to observe the discussion, with the very least of it being done. At any rate, I'm afraid for the Allied Congress that what's being said is being kept. I've been up here in a speech chair many times, and I've said my best. The minister of foreign affairs, for I feel that he has done well in many respects, but in this matter he does not. I don't know if he's disrespecting us, but at least he's disrespecting the senators who are asking him to ask questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u239	A respectable president. I reiterate my wish to have a break in the meeting and to review how the matter was settled from the committee, and people are seriously wondering if this is the way we want to get paid for it at the council. Then I must say, too, that the current government is somehow so ludicrous. First of all, they do not come in with a Senate case, a state of Congress. Three ministers have not turned in one language of what they have preached, or at least now, to the council during this fall. Second, when they produce some stuff, they don't feel that they have to follow them down at the council or do so little as little as they do here and answer the council inquirys. I think we should take a break and seriously review this because this can't happen in a few cases. It's not for our advantage, and we're not meant to work here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u240	The president wants to say that he has received a statement about the Supreme Court. Secretary of state will be here soon.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u241	Mr. President. As already mentioned, I've had a conversation with the highest level. The minister of foreign affairs has nothing more in himself to say on this matter. I managed to ask him about what I needed to know on his behalf, and the conclusion was very clear. V.E.G. A minister could not answer the basis for a single blow, a blow, an entire government agency. Then it's just a matter of time. I think that in itself is a conclusion. Similarly, the highest reality is clearly clear. A minister has delivered this bill without fully understanding the basis he believed to be on, which was the report of the development committee OECD, the DEC Committee. I think it's possible to make a firm decision after this discussion or to enter the highest level. Minister of hers to the highest. The minister has either not read that report, he has misunderstood it, or here he is extracting what it says. The ultimate argument. Ministers have been two. First, the report is the highest. Ministers full of the expansion and cover the failure of Iceland's Development Cooperative Agency. There is talk of the need to manipulate, and there can be no recognizable conclusion except that it includes the removal of too, at least should be the man here who's so bent on swinging his braking tonight, giddy. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son, who has been known as the former president of the Legal Society rather than a politician, at least to see the fallacy involved. None of the above. One minister said this evening when he participated in the discussion, he gave some logical support to the claims that must be changed by the agency. True, such statements are not at the top of a report. Minister. Much more is stated, so I have allowed myself to call them pimps. It speaks of the need to prevent double action. It is said that development as a cohesion agency must act in harmony with the government's foreign policy and, as I mentioned earlier, it has to be handled, though at the highest level. A minister of all men has given us the message that this does not contain any savings. On the other hand, the argument he has largely given his language, and it is of greater importance to me, has been that in a report by the Development Committee, it suggests that the need to change the development programme in Iceland. First of all, it's nowhere to go. My main question to the highest. A minister earlier tonight was: Where does this appear in the opinion of the committee? V.E.G. A minister could not answer that. Second, this is based on a complete misunderstanding because it makes it clear that the committees look forward to the addition of Iceland's contributions to developing cooperation over the next ten years, and in the face of that reality, the committee asks whether it is not time for the Icelanders to consider whether the present arrangement will answer that need. But as we know, the highest tide fell. A government from raising contributions to development cooperation to the extent approved by the Council of Iceland has, of course, promised to bring in a plan, but it is not yet discussed at the General Assembly of the Icelanders. Third, and now it should be. paritaprevir The Brynjar of Níelsson's son to listen, because he is accustomed to challenging the officers of the court. The height was on him. Ministers say that the DEC Committee and the Development Committee never discussed the structure and set of the box around it, but he still says that in the same opinion, which he says is not a guide in the framework of the institutions, there is a suggestion to change it. Thus, each of us runs across another corner of argument at the top. Minister. But what has brought me joy in this discussion is a reason. paritaprevir Brubbur the Brynjar of Níelsson. But it's enough for me to get to the top. The minister is not here, and even if the chairman of the foreign committee is not in a house. Hv. paritaprevir The Brynjar of Níelsson's son has had a word with members of the council, and it is of interest to see how the former legal director is acting, for he does not speak here as a politician. He speaks primarily as a definition of conversation, and he has picked up arguments that he says others made, such as the highest. Ministers, but in all the short speeches and answers as easily as possible. paritaprevir Brynjar, Níelsson's son, has moved tonight, has never been supported by him. He speaks in his role as a member of the House of Independence with these discussions, at least Now, so I'll walk away from it as if it were wrong. A senator speaking on behalf of the Independence Party. Then there is the fact that the only member of the House of Independence Committee, the only member of the discussion, has not said an extra word to support this bill. True, he had the legitimate opinion that may be interpreted to mean that he doesn't care which side of your heart lies when he wakes up in the morning. That's a perfectly legitimate view. I have a very different opinion. I believe that developing cooperation is a burden on foreign policy. I really care about her because I've tried her to do good things. I love it because I see how it works with money, and I have seen the small and big miracles that have been accomplished by the Agency's work and in the circumstances that we have an institution in our hands that is working on humanitarian matters, which is working on kindness, which is similar to people who are helping the runts to break into the rocks, you must ask yourself: What is the benefit of going down such an organization, which in my eyes is one of the best institutions that the Icelandic management board has? It could have been the highest. Minister not answering, but I would like to ask. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's question: What is the benefit in his eyes of putting down the Agency? Nobody's talked about how the agency's not doing so well. The head of the State Department, what? paritaprevir The Hanna of Birna Kristjánsdóttir, who is not present at this discussion, declared it when she recommended the opinion of the Agency that it had done very well, there would be nothing wrong with her. V.E.G. A minister was moved to declare this at 1st. The point that he could not find anything wrong with this institution. More importantly, in his own report, great praise for the Agency is expressed, and it specifically claims that the multiplicity of assessments on the part of the locals and locals has revealed that the Agency's activities are irreprehensible. These words can be read in a paper with the bill at its height. Ministers have proposed to bring down the Agency, which he himself gives this praiseworthy judgment. And then, of course, you ask yourself, " Why is this journey going on? ' All former foreign ministers who have been involved in these matters, allways since Ólafur Jóhannesson, one of the leading leaders of the forward movement, have made rapid progress in the development of transnational agreements for development cooperation. I recall that when one specific minister, indeed from the advance team, was Valgerður Sverrisdóttir, came up with ideas similar to those found in this bill of putting down a development community organization and taking those projects into the Ministry, the local minister listened to the council. During the council, she faced fierce opposition, which she took into consideration, and the bill was dropped. Why is that so? The minister of the state of Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson wants to fight the matter directly? I ask, "What's the cause of that? " A minister does not wish to take into account the terms of reconciliation that have come from members of the United States, Senator Porita, VG member of the Parliament to examine other ways, perhaps beats on what he would like to see, but does one of the three options that Þórir Guðmundsson presents in his report. Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson understood the case of the head of state so that he considered them all to be equal. [[The president calls.]] This would be done by a righteous minister in an effort to reach a conclusion that would be reasonably peaceful. But the highest. The minister of state prefers war rather than peace in these matters. [[The president calls.]] No one is surprised who has observed his way of life in other matters that are not related to this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u242	Mr. President. I thought why. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson is going a long way to talk. paritaprevir The Brynjar of Níelsson's son shall be as it were. A senator often calls the former president of the Legal Society. Hv. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son merged in the discussion, mainly on the practicality principle, and testified to the bill's report that it took a little weight in the year on the issue of making a lot of money. Now, however, it is true that the office's review of government funds makes a completely different note. It says that this could lead to a future of some practicality. That's all. Now you know what you're doing. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Aphrodinsson, former minister of foreign affairs, this tribe, and the work as Minister of Foreign Affairs for more and less than four to five years. So I would like to ask a former minister, "What would he see in him that there could be some practical thing in his life? ' I've been going over this in my head. Based on what I know for the cohesion of offices and institutions and when we were uniting a small Ministry, it was relatively easy to calculate the profits of reducing one minister, one Ministry Secretary, one driver, one secretary in the head of a small Ministry and uniting it to one. When we were uniting the tax, nine tax treaties, nine tax presidents, nine government officials, under the office of one government tax manager, it was easy to prove the practicality argument. This doesn't mean anything like that. There's no overcrowding that disappears, except for one president. Isn't that the way it is? Or what does it say? A senator on this? To whom should we believe, the office of public finance, or our judgment? paritaprevir Empress the Brynjar of Níelsson in these matters?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u243	Mr. President. I'd like to say that in defense of you. paritaprevir The armoury of Níelsson's son that I consider him to be an intelligent creature with whom to speak. Hv. True, a senator has political views, which often violates in a respectful way that I know, especially when he writes on his moneybook, but he is always ready to listen to evidence, I have tried him to do so. Of course, I noticed why. paritaprevir Brins the Brynjar of Níelsson sought prisoners in the report. That's how it is, as I know it. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's mask has identified it all because he has read it all, with certain paradoxs between the report, or the tone, and the outcome in the opinion of the financial agency. Among other things, the report is about the evidence that this can lead to some kind of greater efficiency. You read that the writers expected this to lead to some form of saving. Then, of course, when the financial office has taken care of this, they are struck with claves like other cones. Her conclusion is that this will not lead to any saving, and that is why it needs to be done at the highest level. Minister to repeat it, and he has conscientiously done so. What's more, topv. A minister has literally said that the temporary change could lead to some sort of expense. He has said that it may be because of the transport and the arrangements it will take, that they may have to start some kind of training at the start of the staff, and it must naturally cost something. So I view it as the highest. A minister has shown this by his case that this could result in expense. Question question. I say to the senator: This has brought no savings. But I noticed that I thought it was a problem. paritaprevir The Brynjar of Níelsson's son behave themselves like a lawyer in a court of law. He put other opinions into his mind and mouth. He never said it was his opinion, and it still has a reason. A senator didn't come here and tell me that it was his conviction that the right thing to do in this institution was to snap, so I'll point into a word. þm. Vilhjálmur Bjarna's son. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u244	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answers and they mess with what I've read out of this matter, and it is clear that this change does not reduce the number of people, nor does it mean that there is no room for them, no harm to the home environment, and there is really nothing left. In a well - fired institution, surveyed that it does well with money, is well run, and has nothing to do with reporting, and then I think that argument has fallen to the ground, and I agree completely. When I first read the bill's report, I got the feeling that I was trying to sell it to someone that it would be a real practical thing. Then I looked up the cover of the office of government finance and there it collapses to the ground in a very credible way. When you consider the matter, it is far more likely that for a short time, this increase in cost will come. It is simply that way, for such a problem often comes with it. To some extent, people may need to be trained for new people, organizational changes, and so on, when being stirred by employees, they will likely be more likely to bring them along rather than the fact that a temporary disorder occurs, and it takes more to restore these items. So I think it really answers itself, but it's good to hear what you think. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u245	Mr. President. Hv. A senator, such as thinking aloud in answer to his previous question, " Could it be that it saves only possibly the wages of one manager? ' V.E.G. In the early winter, a minister was severely criticized when he was pulled out almost by a pair of fires over this platform that if it happened to the Council, he would not intend to continue ruling with the current president. So understood I him, and interpreted his words this way. However, it happened here tonight at the highest. Minister's got a cowpoke. He has removed the threat he made over the director's head and declared earlier today that a job within the Ministry would be offered to the director. Under those circumstances, I conclude that there will be nothing but cost. [[The president calls.]] Nothing is saved there, and there are many costs that this will bring.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u246	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson for a good speech earlier. He has given many good and fiery talks on this subject, showing that he cares about this institution. There have been many discourses about this matter, which have become a great number of things since it was first brought forth to us, that it is a very good organization. It's a well-explored institution. She's recovered from herself on herself. She's been well fired, so she's noticed. And maybe that's what I'm surprised at. I will admit that my knowledge of this institution is not perfect, as is the case with many other things I have experienced over the years, that it is an institution working on good things. We are helping people in desperate need in former colonies who have suffered oppression and domination by Western countries and European countries. This may have been the case at first. The countries could not help themselves after the European Union decided to withdraw from the colonies, so this development aid was established to help these people. I've never heard anything but talk about this institution. She's always done very well, and she's been a credit to Iceland. Nor have I heard any sound reasons why this institution should be put down and put in the Ministry. It is stated in a committee article that this has been experienced many times before former foreign ministers have failed to do so. The ASI review states with the permission of the president: The Common Union believes that by moving development cooperation to one hand, i.e. All the responsibility of the State Department has been the result of the professional achievements achieved by the United States Department. There is a danger that diplomatic emphasis may begin to blend into the developing cohesion - i.e. that contributions will guide them for their own interests, not for the interests of the poor alone. What does ASI mean? Well, maybe. A senator would explain that to me?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u247	Mr. President. Yes, I can. The point is, among other things, that there is a danger, if the development team is reassigned permanently into the Ministry, that other interests, in time, may influence how it is being performed. Now I want to make it clear that I do not believe that the present level is at all. A government guided it, but these are created circumstances that create certain temptations. Consider an example. In a change like this, five years ago, I think, in Holland. It warned that this neighborhood could lead to the use of developing cooperation in foreign trades for the Dutch. Now, five years later, people have concluded that this is the case, that the temptation problem has moved into a real world. This was most important, and in view of the way this happened in the Netherlands, the Italian government, which was under way in developing cooperation, concluded that it was right to go the opposite way. There, as the Dutch changed, development teamwork, and experience from the Netherlands led the Italians to look a little deeper and to learn that the same trend was going on, to move the projects out of the Ministry, to create a developing research agency. What the big nation of Italy, a large country in development, feels is best, so the highest. Secretary of state to change today. In other words, the problem is that. A senator tore here, based on ASI's story, has actually appeared. In fact, there could be many more examples in neighboring lands, a little older, but this is the latest.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u248	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I began to think about this when I read the review that it might be a temptation for government officials to start playing some contracts. I'm not going to say it, but it's not likely. I may not object that institutions are united or jumped up in the government system and that they try to make administration more efficient than what I am most surprised is that they are at an institution that is so wonderfully fired and that has been fired by film - collard in Iceland for decades. Most important, the lawsuit by many members of the council has shown that the government system is too great, and what has also caught my attention is that in the General's study report, it is said that it is not to reduce Ministerhood and make Congress stronger. It seems to me that this government is going the wrong way. It is advancing the Ministerhood and disappearing from the guidance provided in this fine report, the General Report.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u249	Mr. President. Hv. There's a senator talking about Ministership. What we're looking at here is the Ministership of one man, one of the highest. Minister. It has been made very clear that there is no one in the board who is trusting to make this legal case. At least I think it's the best. A president who now is behind me, of course, was here on a short talk of growth with his minister, and he spoke with it. But we have also listened to ten or twelve speeches by reason of reason. paritaprevir The Brynjar of Níelsson's son, who has sewed and directed his X - ray to various logical aspects of the matter, has failed to describe support and blame anyone who wants to. That's why I said earlier tonight. A senator is made wise, he is a thinking man, he knows there is no particular bridge in this matter. But to him it doesn't fall deep. To me, it's passion. Evolution is something I feel sorry for, and that's why I'm thinking and caring for it and worried about it. paritaprevir The wearer of the son of Níelsson doesn't care about the rousing party.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u250	A respectable president. First, I need to adjust my former understanding in matters of urgency. A senator mentioned Þórir Guðmundsson as a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee. I remember he counted all three possibilities of equals he mentioned in the report, but that's not true. However, he noted that two of these advantages were basically possible. One of them is to transfer it to the Ministry of State and lay down the Agency. The other one is strengthening the TSSI and giving a project from the Ministry to the European Development Agency and having the Ministry more a surveillance role. In fact, the third option that Þórir Guðmundsson did not like is the same as where he was assigned to carry out his assignments and so on. Hv. A senator is himself an ex-fiancée. Secretary of state. No one seems to have much to do with the work of the Development Agency. It is bound by its commitments to the law of the law. She does a good job, there seems to be no disagreement. I wonder what's wrong. A senator would do so now if he faced such a decision: Will he change something? If so, what would he change? Is he going to strengthen your TSSI and take a job from the Ministry? And I'd like to ask you why. A member of Parliament: How does he gain the idea of setting up a development agency in the Ministry of State without putting it down? This is reflected in the logic of the son of Þórir Guðmundsson that other nations have done so, which is exactly what they have done, namely, what they have done. They have not laid down these organizations, but have brought them into the ministry, which is of my second opinion. I wondered, " Is there food as well? ' Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u251	Mr. President. It is highly logical to take the Agency and bring it in whole before the Department of State Opportunities and to continue working on it. This has been done in neighboring lands with good results. Hv. A senator asks me what I would do if I were the highest. Secretary of state. Under these circumstances, I would go along that way, and I read most of the report by the son of Þórir Guðmundsson and reasoned with him in the early stages of the case, including the following: in the DAC Commission, to consider carefully the comments of the DEC Committee, which states that the Icelandic development team is distinguishing from one thing that happens with other nations in one way; there is a very high ratio of two-sided assistance, two- sided development cooperation, still set aside within the Ministry of State. In Þórir's report, the option is to take it out of the Ministry and move it to the Development Network, thus strengthening it. Under these circumstances all two - sided co - work would be done in that institution. There will be a complete divorce between the Ministry and the Development Agency. That's what I would do in this situation. You're absolutely right. A senator says the Agency is well fired. She's not just a well run, she's a model institution, probably one of the best agencies in the Icelandic Republic today. She is highly admired abroad. I was proud as an Icelandic politician, as an Icelander, when I became aware that much larger institutions in much larger countries believed it to be of many other institutions. They requested permission to study closely the work of the Development Agency because it was thought to be a great deal of learning. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's what matters to me. Why change an organization that is very effective? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u252	A respectable president. I also wondered, " Why are these changes being made? ' An old saying says: " Don't fix what isn't broken. ' I don't think there's anything wrong with the development community. I hear little more than a hill to her, no matter what I ask. But when it comes to the possibility of moving to the Agency, a two-sided project, etc, that is the way among the proposals that came from Þórir Guðmundsson, and, as it says in my performances of the blessed meeting, he did not consider it any less in himself, and that option would certainly still be possible. He couldn't tell us why we shouldn't go that way, but it remains to punch through them in spite of a political disagreement to bring down the Agency. Then I wondered if it would be easier to move the Agency into the Ministry without laying it down. At least I'd like to hear it. A senator sees that the agency's application into the Ministry will change something. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] How would that affect you?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u253	It is possible that the apartment could lead to what would be at the highest level. Minister thought that was one of the benefits of the change, i.e. He said here tonight, he hadn't said it before so I'd heard, that a better perspective over the seminary was one of the things he wanted to be the result of this change. It may well be that under such circumstances a better perspective would be given to the sect. Something else happened, too. As I have understood this option, the transport duty would not apply to the staff of the Development Agency. In other words, they would be inside the Ministry, within the agency, but they would not move in between the mails in foreign lands. This meant that the speciality that will inevitably exist within such an institution and the special experience would continue and stay, even pile up, but with the highest form. A minister suggests that most would agree that it will be embalmed by a great quantity of blisteres, become corrosive, and that is very damaging. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u254	Mr. President. Then I have nothing to do with giving my speech and asking questions to the highest degree. Ministers, although I would have liked to have ten minutes, not five. I'm going to try to keep my questions simple and clear in the hope that they will be more relevant to any answer or comment. The first question is simple and natural in such situations. She's this: What's the matter, the highest. Minister? What's wrong? What problems are being solved today by these changes? There must be some such reason, and I would like the Ministry to give an honest answer. Is this a problem that people believe they're dealing with? What are they? Second, the professional reasoning is. I think it's minimal that we get some conviction that there are some professional reasons to be involved in these changes. In what ways can professional and better be accomplished by two - sided development cooperation than has been done recently and is done today after these changes? Where is the professional argument? They must be somebody, or what? Third, of course, it is normal for the Minister to review the financial evidence, especially as a result of statements in the report with the bill that, in turn, will not be supported by the government office's opinion of financial and economic institutions. Does the Ministry still believe that this will lead to some significant economy, and then when? Or has the Ministry of State come to agree with the Ministry of Economics that it is at best at some point in the future might pay off? I think it matters that it's clear. It could hardly be that it should be an opportunity for us to resolve this issue in a clear difference between two steps in this regard if it is still there. We know how an official financial office works in these matters. It has access to all the information, and it is the only highly specialized person in the country to make these observations because it is her job to give the expense information to the case and on which it is generally trusted. The fourth and final question is about the integration argument made high below the top of the report. That's where I think we need a much better explanation from the highest level. A minister, but we've had it up to now because there's something that concerns many, and it's the abnormally complexity that can arise between interests other than theirs to be professional and independently of the development team. What is the responsibility of this integration if it is not to be at the expense of our continuing professionally independentness to these aspects of our foreign policy? Two - side development aid should be strictly professional and independent based on cooperation with the locals and to assist them with their interests and society. Iceland's environmental, political, and commercial interests should never affect anything in that regard. It is not possible to escape and hold. In most cases, the conclusion is often tried, at least to the contrary. in discussions. Which applies? Is that an integration argument, and what will it be? How will the cost of developing cooperation remain independent, independent, and professional? Then I want to roll up one more thing, and may call it the fifth question, because no one has been able to demonstrate any problems in the operating of the Development Agency today. On the contrary, it is highly graded everywhere, either financially or professionally. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister: Is there a problem that is being solved, and is that a problem inside the Ministry? Is it ever the back of the mountain to put down a development community organization, bringing people and their assignments into the Ministry to solve some organizational or human endeavors there? When you start looking for some hidden reason, I wondered about this. [[The president calls.]] And finally, Mr. President, in case I don't give more talks to this discussion that may well be going on, I suggest, of course, that the case is going on between 2 and 3.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u255	V.E.G. President. There are so many unusual things in the work of the Generals today and in these days. But before I have my case, I have to say, "I'm most disappointed in you. " The minister of state, who was reached to sit here on the third or fourth of each of these talks. .... J. Sigfússon, whose five questions were asked, does not show a sense of decency in using the anti - answer right to answer the questions immediately. It may just be the right thing to do with this. That's unusual. It's really one of those horrors, and it's not getting better by going to the highest level. Minister, not when he's here or when he's around. I don't know which is better. I'm going to criticize very hard, as I've done in a few answers, the quick treatment and flumbruff that was on the back. The Foreign Affairs Committee, when the matter was now in session for this council. I'm going to tell you right away that there's no excuse for this quick treatment, for these brutal tactics, that the case was being discussed at the last council. The case took place on September 22, the last September, and September 24, when the issue was sent out to issue every session until October 14. Four people turned in a review. On Thursday, the case was discussed on the committee, and representatives of the smaller section requested that guests attend the meeting, as each committee does. It is also polite for those who send in a review to talk with them and allow them to follow through on the case. There was a little talk over there, but a working chairman, first vice president, huh? paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, declared that it was all right to have these guests before the committee, but that the case would be taken from the committee the following day. It didn't matter what the guests would tell or whether any members of the committee, whether they were in more parts or less, came before the committee. I don't think that's the reason the rest of the thing asked me to, because I think he got the one from the highest order. Minister to complete the case as soon as possible and to rip it out, no matter what happened. There's something else going on in this case. The following day, on October 16, on Friday, not on the committee meeting time, the guests arrived, and at the same time a large international conference was starting at the Harpa, which included the group. The president of Iceland gave a address. I imagine the foreign feds would have wanted to be there. Then came the committee, and the case was resolved. A respectable president. This fluf, this kind of rudeness, and this kind of work doesn't add respect to the Generals' respect. The committee has three new members, including the chairman who was coming for the first time to serve in committees at the great General Assembly. Hope was her first step. In fact, the council is being preconceived with this kind of practice. This area is not uniting organizations, as has been done to a considerable extent in Iceland, especially after a collapse. I remind you that now, for example, it's a uniting Habitat Institute and a Fishing Institute. The person standing here is a professional health committee who worked on that. I don't know that the majority of the items did not happen to our wishes to have guests in a meeting or to accept suggestions from my share or any of these on the subject. No, it was done. But here we find a new note that should be attributed to a meeting in the Iceland government where a set memo was offered that I will come more readily to follow. It was decided at a government meeting that in order to facilitate unity and to reduce the number of institutions with fewer than 50 staff that all the employees of my institutions would be laid off. It was the newcomer that appeared for the first time to unite the institutions. in the bill on the unity of the EEC and the Medieval Institute. Comments were immediately made on this subject and asked: "What is going on here? This government meeting, where it was decided to go, was reported on the new route of breaking up with everyone, not going to compromise law. I think the information came as a surprise. There was a completely new note. As the committee carried out, it was seen that this was a hopeless and more part of the Committee brought an adjustment to the bill requiring that those hired take along acquired rights. But it had to be done that way. That's not what the government thought. That's not what a seafaring and agricultural minister thought about when he proposed the bill. No, I'm just breaking up with everybody. I take this as an example of what is involved here. However, in the case of the Development Agency, institutions are not being united. It is an institution, a good organization, an exemplary organization for many years, in the opinion of the State Accounting, an institution that has gained international recognition among people in this sector. It has been reported here that the Agency has even were able to obtain large amounts of money from other countries into assignments that we perform in the countries where we help our smallest brothers and sisters. In other words, they're putting down an agency and moving the operation into the Ministry. I don't see the point. That's why I've often said so, and once again I think it's nothing more than a response to surgery. Hv. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, chairman of the Board of Fundament and Guðlaugur Þórðarson, vice president of the budget, took a major cut-off for one year and a much greater cut-off took place at the Ministry of Ministers. The minister but the rest of the councils, so the Ministry could not continue its activities thereafter. I believe we're getting an agency into the Ministry with the money that comes with it. It will then become apparent in the coming years when employees stop that they may not be hired to be an associate for the Development Network, and the projects will have been submitted to other members of the Ministry. In other words, this is because the Ministry intends to collect funds to run the Ministry. It's lame. That is why I have claimed that this is nothing more than resentment and some kind of hatred, or what to call it, the highest. Ministers to this facility and the staff there. As a result, the discussion shows what the staff said at a meeting of the foreign committee on this subject. The speed of the committee, these two meetings, shows that the minister is in a hurry. So they say this is done for economic purposes or for raising jobs, etc. I mentioned earlier to the Government Advisory Committee. What are they doing on the road? Is something being merged there? No. We have a travel agency under law, which is creating a new battery that costs about 100 million. K. every year. It's amazing what the work is like. Not much has been said about the reviews at the General Assembly. I'm going to give you one point from a review from the Development Research Institute. It even says, by permission of the president: ▪ Executive members of the Foreign Affairs Committee have asked about the role of a member of the Foreign Minister to help achieve a bill on the subject and on the part of the staff of TheSSI in the group. In a letter of command, the Minister says so proverbially, and I have the permission of a president for reading it. Attention: I have decided to assign a group of workers to work with a bill to legalize the law on Iceland's international development team, No. 121/2008, which will be proposed to make the transition to the development team that the work of the European Development Agency is being introduced into the Ministry of State. This is a direct quote by the Minister's order letter. This is where the minister has determined what he will do, but he has not considered the options presented by Þórir Guðmundsson in his report. And it says: Therefore, the task force was in no way to investigate or evaluate - notice; search or evaluate - ◯distinguishable options in organizational matters, but only to prepare a bill based on a suggestion in Iceland's report by Þórir Guðmundsson son, Evolution Cooperative, Effectiveness, and Success. Two members of the United States were appointed to serve there on the basis of a letter of command. Their main focus has been on caring for the needs of employees for the proposed changes. A developing cohesion agency further encourages careful coverage of the bill and the central report that reminds us that once the report was presented in a draft, the Agency suggested: ▪ We encourage careful discussions with interested persons and economists, not just on this milestone report, but on the final report and suggestions. In this way a foreign minister gets the best decision-making option. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs offered an open discussion on the milestone report of the son of Þórir Guðmundsson. However, no ongoing discussion of his final report and suggestions was offered. Note; no meeting on the final report and suggestions. It was not necessary to conclude how this occurred, based on the staff's response to a meeting of the Foreign Affairs Committee, where the minister of foreign affairs was to have said that he would need no argument in the matter. Then, by permission of the president, it goes on to say: The reactor wants e.g. Note that the report by Þórir Guðmundsson contains misleading statements that YSSI does not operate in the implementation of development cooperation and that the role of the Agency is primarily monitoring. These statements give us a profound misunderstanding as to what is involved in modern development. The report balances the State Department quality monitoring with international institutions supported by Iceland, and the quality monitoring of the YSSI, with the progress of specific projects, but it seems to be similar to the equal monitoring of owners by the development of an enterprise and the monitoring of technology through the quality of production. Both are necessary but very different. There is a misunderstanding that would likely have been able to eliminate with better coverage at previous levels and to ensure that a minister would get the best foundation for decision making. A respectable president. Do you want me to continue this reading? Or it's enough of all the relapse rates that are best known and put here on paper as a heading to the why. Committee of Congress? This is what we senators, who are not members of the Foreign Affairs Committee, will want to respond to from Secretary of State at the General. But that may not be unusual. A minister does little by answering questions here or by trying to get some sense into this mess. A respectable president. Do you want me to read what employees are reporting on the bill to the State Department dated October 12th? By permission of the President: A comment and protest presented in the Agency's reviews and comments on the plans for setting up the YSSI. On the contrary, it was estimated that it would be desirable to transfer more projects in the field of development to the TSSI and to promote the seminary in this way, as there are many reasons for this. So we strongly suggest that the Council fulfills the promise of increased contributions to development cooperation and support the institution that has the highest professional strength in that area in Iceland. Under these accounts a number of employees of the Development Agency. Then I come to the review of Iceland's Red Cross. You see, that statement is quite remarkable. I have only six minutes left, but I have time for more talks later and I intend to use them to establish the subject. A review of Iceland's Red Cross makes comments to six articles of the bill. I don't really know where to begin. I review only a review of the first article. By permission of the President: ▪ The cross does not comment on the first issue of this article, but it feels that the second question, as follows, needs further consideration: These include the aims of international security. by promoting peace, by guarding it, by building and preserving peace, and by giving humanitarian assistance where it is needed. According to the Red Cross, this indicates that the goal of humanitarian assistance may be to ensure international peace. However, there can never be a purpose of relief, though this may be one of the consequences. In view of the Red Cross, it is dangerous to mix evolution with peacekeeping, as is the case with peace. A respectable president. Can I repeat that? ▪ In the opinion of the Red Cross, how careful it is to mix development with peacekeeping, as is the case with the security of peace! I'm asking the highest. A minister because this is a adjustment to the Peace Guard Act: Why wasn't it adjusted? I view it as part of their fluctuary and the clumsy practices in which there is more to be done than foresee. In the first article, the reference to the Red Cross continues: ▪ The concept of peacekeeping in a traditional sense is anything but the content of evolutionary cooperation, though many things may seem to be in common. That is not only the basis but also the performances, so it would be better to separate the two in an irrefutable way. Although the work of the Peace Guard under the DiaCD rules may be counted to a large extent, it would be better to have all that is involved in the operation of peacekeeping, as measured by the ◯Serctuary of peacekeeping laws rather than by the legislation on developing cohesion. Why is this not done? Then comes a suggestion from the Red Cross on this article. Then comes another article, which says, with permission of the president: ▪ It will be emphasized to provide staff management in a way that ensures that their experience and expertise will not be lost but will be useful in the continued and important contribution of Iceland to development cooperation. That's what the Red Cross says. You could keep the diagnosis at the Red Cross, but I'm gonna stop here and repeat what I said earlier. The comments of the Red Cross are to six articles, and I will get it from my speeches that I will discuss on this subject. I have only three minutes left, and finally I have a memo from the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs to the government dated March 2, 2015. Material: The staff's rights as a team and changes in institutions. A memo presented to the government on Friday, January 23, 2015, called attention to the fact that there seemed to be little harmony in the manner of rights and duties of employees when agencies were united. In this regard, the pros and cons that have been proposed were discussed in the General Assembly, leading between two and three. The three routes mentioned in the seafaring and agricultural memos are as follows: 1st All jobs laid down. A new agency takes on assignments. Personnel do not secure the priority of new jobs. New jobs advertised. 2. All jobs laid down. New jobs created in a new or existing institution. Workers secure the priority of new jobs. 3. Do not bow down but move to another institution by overstepping employment contracts. It's based on everyone keeping their jobs. The third, the one that has gone so far, is not selected, i.e. in which a new agency handles employment contracts. Therefore, more than a part of the employment committee offers a proposal for the bill to be united by the National Institute for Research and Fishing. It's also spoken of in the government's policy declaration, etc. and enter it, with President's permission: In view of the government's declaration of policy, the proposal of the management group of the government for the reduction and streamlining of the establishment system and the policy presented in a bill for budget 2014 to simplify the state system and to promote organizations together so that at least 50 are reduced and the institutions with fewer than 30 employees are subject to exceptions, the minister of finance and economics in order that the government will agree that two will be gone at the elected time when the legal rights of staff are determined. All jobs are put down and new jobs are created in a new institution or an existing institution. Finally, this: The financial cost estimate is at no cost. I point to two points: It is assumed that a staff of 15 can go abroad once or twice a year. And then I'm going to state that nothing has been thought of when all the workers have to be informed and the Agency will be put down, if you don't want to hire the Ministry, but make use of their reward rights. I'm asking you, has it been checked out? I say this because at work together with the Institute of Oceanographic Research and Fishing, it has been said that nothing has been done in evaluating it. [[The president calls.]] I could've talked another 20 minutes, and I'm going to come here more often to discuss this whole thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u256	V.E.G. President. I heard a word out of you. A senator would think it was a big deal to lay this institution down. I think it's strange that men feel it's important to put down an institution with a few men when all of them are invited to continue at the Ministry of the Same Issue. It's hard for me to understand it as a big deal. But because it's such a big deal, I'd like to ask the senator, because I'm interested in history, if he didn't support it during the last term when the Defense Department was put down with the argument that it was for the practicality and simplicity of the administration, and then, of course, it would be very reasonable to lay down that institution. The assignments were given under the Ministry and other places. I'm not sure what. When that discussion was handled, a senator was so grueled. But what may be even worse is that during the last term the Ministry of Justice has been canceled. It was very difficult for me to see that development, and the projects were basically inserted into the Department of Transport. When that was done, I felt a lot of pressure on my heart. I find this to be much bigger than ever because professional knowledge does not go away. It's part of the Ministry. That's why I think it's kind of minor. I have to take this opportunity and... [[The president calls.]] Maybe I'll come to that when I get back because time's over.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u257	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator very much for answering me. I've got a lot of respect for it when men come back to answer. He says I think it's a big deal to shut down the Agency and bring it together to the State Department with a handful of employees. Well, it's not quite that there are very few employees. It is said that the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs has 9 staff working in the Department of Development at the State Department and that there are 38 members of the United States, 9 of them at the head office in Reykjavík and 6 in the district office, but that other staff are in charge.◯ So the foundation is bigger than that. The key point is this: What I fear was presented in my speech, i.e. what they're doing, because I haven't had enough evidence to put the Agency down and collect it in the Ministry. There is no saving of it, should not be. This may be an additional cost, as we discussed with the proposal earlier. Probably in 2009, I did not object. It was a suggestion in the ideal government that was then, an independent party and group, to destroy it. She had just grown up, and in her savings she was laid down. With regard to the Ministry of Transport, it is not entirely true, though I am sure that the Department of Transport could have received it very well, received the Ministry of Justice, at any rate as long as I knew it well. But the government has not changed it. But she has changed. I can finally say that I'm very sorry about the Justice Department in that way so that I'm sure that if we had a special Justice Department today, we would have a very good Minister of Justice in this country and I would have named the former legal director, right? paritaprevir Brunes the Brynjar of Níelsson. And that alone is deserving of the Ministry of Justice. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u258	V.E.G. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u259	Don't you agree?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u260	Yeah, I totally agree with that. I'll mention this, I'll go to this story because it's such a basic argument for the same argument as it was for the Defense Institute. I'm not afraid of this because there's nothing to go away with. In case of a moment. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller agrees. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Aggressor that I don't care about the tribe, that's not true. I don't care about the seminary, but I don't care what form it is, whether it's a special institution or whether it's in the Ministry. [[Up top, you don't mean...]] But I care about the interests of taxpayers. If I think the taxpayers get more money by uniting the operation and some practicality, I'll vote for it. But if I think there's some logic that's heavier than that and some professional knowledge is lost, then I may well vote against it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u261	V.E.G. President. Like what? There is hope and insight, a reasonable man who looks at solutions. If there's money for the taxpayers, he'll agree. It has been observed here that there is no savings to taxpayers. I've been leading up to the chance that the cost will be higher because we don't know anything unless some employees take on a proposal and that's gonna cost them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u262	I said more for the money... savings.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u263	It's gonna cost you. The other thing. The senator spoke of, which I had not now written with me in that minute, where the dog. A senator said that if we lost expertise and if it cost more, he'll vote for the bill. I feel that I have already been very effective in my 20 - minute talk and this brief answer to the question. paritaprevir Brunes the Brynjar of Níelsson. Because the right thinking man as he is doing here, he passes over the case, I don't worry about how he votes according to the way he puts it. [[For example, consider this point: You now have one speech to follow.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u264	A respectable president. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, for example, who is the ex-fiancée. Minister and probably, as we have seen in the answers. paritaprevir Empress the Brynjar of Níelsson, who was experienced in these things, i.e. To unite institutions and whatever. I wondered about the cost, because as we have seen, it was not assumed that the bill would be a law that would affect a government fund, which is the stated purpose, if I understand correctly, to increase efficiency or to the like. However, I have not been informed of any form of inefficiency except for some suspected communication failure between the Ministry of Staff and the staff of the European Development Agency. Then there is a basket of what is true and true and how much failure has really been involved. What I am thinking about is about the cost, seeing away from the clients, and other direct costs that could result. I ask: Is there any danger that if something goes wrong, it will be more expensive, such as if some of the staff don't want to go with it? Or if the changes lead to a task or to a project that had previously taken a break and then it takes time again to move on or something similar. When you combine institutions in general or drag them into the Ministry, it's not some cost of that change, i.e. if you have a change to your name? In view of the fact that this is not to affect the treasure of the Kingdom in itself, I wonder and wish to have an opinion. A senator's opinion on whether the fact is, in the case of a change, that there will be in some way the cost of a performance as an example. If the change takes time and work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u265	V.E.G. President. In response to counter-regulated question. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunns Gunnarsson of a team experience, I can say that, and I'll say one more time. I used myself as a minister of transportation to begin working to separate the projects of Vega and Siginga Agency and administrative devices. I had two groups of employees who worked very professionally and good jobs, talking to staff, etc. Returned a minister's proposal to unite the projects of the Vega project with the Sigingum Institute and then create a administrative agency from the F.A. Government, the management department of the Sports Agency, and the Road Building, known as Grouping Room today. The key point to the success of the union that I know was that I've done very well was number one, number one, two and three teamwork, teamwork, working together and working with staff. Keep staff informed, meeting with them, and talking to them and listening to their point of view. That's why I think that harmony went so well. It was not made by creating evil, as the government is doing with this approval in spring, to inform all employees, and to reexamine them. There is a possibility that employees may lose acquired rights, say unemployed leaves, leaves on pay, etc. That's what I wanted to say. With regard to the cost, it is not excluded that there would be a court of remuneration. The staff are entitled, and it was found in the World Health Organization's Peace and Fishing Unit that man is employed at different times, but it differs from that of man. Expert knowledge can be lost if some do not continue and action can be delayed. All of this leads to cost. So I think it's wrong what's said in the bill that this doesn't involve costs and would like to say, because it was shown in the news today, that the cost of a government fund to collect a report on the case that the Minister uses as evidence cost 9 million. K. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u266	A respectable president. I'm beginning to wonder what it takes to work here at the General Assembly to carve this issue instead of trying to reach some conclusion people might accept. Already, at least two ideas have been developed that have not been thoroughly discussed, either here or on my committee. On the one hand, Þórir Guðmundsson proposed to support the YSSI and deliver projects to the Agency from the Ministry and to make these changes, but to implement them so that at least the Agency would not be put down. Now it is clear from the fact that the workers of the European Development Agency sent in the previous review of anti-programmation. And obviously the bill was not made in good terms with those employees. Hv. A senator mentioned that men are hired at different times. It has now been observed, not true, that the development of projects, that they enjoy peace and that the Agency is not involved while working. Is it not, then, obvious that at least these changes will cost the cost of work? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u267	V.E.G. President. As so often does one's case shows. At the beginning of the matter, a senator, and he wonder at the beginning of the second answer, at peace and at peace. Yeah. It would have, as many times have been said here, should be done and still should be done. They're supposed to try to make more peace with you because there's a lot of disagreement about it. The key is to communicate with employees, talk to them, and make use of their knowledge. You're absolutely right. A senator said and said in a speech speech today, because Þórir Guðmundsson notes that a project goes out of the Ministry to the SSI, and we don't know why it's not gone because it's unconvinced. The minister's order letter states: "I've decided to hide - not to explore, what's best. The minister has decided to go this way, the unfortunate way in which this is being discussed, and he causes so much strife. It is true, of course, that institutions should enjoy peace. This has been done together with the Merition Institute and the Medieval Institute. [[The president calls.]] The issue has been over for two years, and the workers are calling very much for this to be concluded because there are uncertainty and other problems with staff.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u268	V.E.G. President. What is different from this operation and because the Department of Defense was submitted at the time is that the Agency's projects were divided between three parties. This refers to uniting in one place the forces of evolutionists. However, there is one thing I especially want to ask. A senator about. As for growth, the person standing here has not had the pleasure of becoming a minister yet, but I have noticed that in the talks of some former Ministers today, there have been opinions that moving tasks from the Bureau's institutions and that it will even interfere with the handling of funds. That's why I'm gonna ask what. A senator who's a former U.S. Marshal. Minister: Is it some kind of life - giving experience that arises in the talks of these fine senators? Counts 'em out. A senator? Is this the experience of these senators, including why? A senator, that the Ministry is a black hole in which the oscillating state and management of funds is lacking? That's what I want to know. I'd like to suggest something else, too. I remember as if it had happened yesterday that in the spring of 2013, I was at the Navigator Institute in Kópavogi. It was not that pleasure with imminent unity, as it were. A senator described earlier, and there was no kind spirit on the waters thereof. The people were actually quite crazy about what was being done with this, and I don't think that it's fully known how that unit has been affected or if it's broken. The point of my inquiry is whether. A senator believes that with the transfer of the workers into the Ministry, financial management will become worse and more transparent. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u269	V.E.G. President. I'm not necessarily sure about the transparency and the whole thing. However, it is short and simple, so there has been no room for construction in the Ministry. As I described above, together with the Sports Agency, and with the deportation of these transport institutions, it was my reminder that a brief report and administration made by the Government Accounting of the need to separate projects from administrative areas. That is why the number of workers in the Sports Institute went up to the staff, and I can't remember what percentage is more than the proportion of the Vega program, even though the road was a much larger institution; the flying government, then, is in the administrative department. I assure you, it is a much better way of having this and a completely functional organization. It's about a campaign call. A member of the Nautilus Organization of his day: Yes, he must have heard from various employees who were rather troubled about unity. Many of them took advantage of the reward rights, please. But I think it was also based on misunderstandings. There were quite a number of Nautilus employees who would not join the Road Building but the National Guard and make up the sea and coast, if I recall correctly. There were some people with that viewpoint, and I'm not surprised that some employees talked it over with the candidate who was on the client's pants getting votes in elections, doing so, that's not surprising. But I do not hesitate to argue that after two or three years of this operation, everyone agrees that it is a much better form than it was, and administratively no question.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u270	V.E.G. President. The person standing here has only a little over 15 years of experience in handling the government's funds, both in the ministry and in the institution. So I must renew my question to the point. A senator whether he believes that financial and financial monitoring of funds is a more difficult and worse subject for the Ministry where operations happen to be under one responsible office manager than for an institution under the financial supervision of the Ministry. I feel so suspicious in the language of many whales. Councilmen believe that the State Department intends to take some of the contributions to assist in another business. I ask: Is it appropriate for people to make any such motives for the State Department officials? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u271	V.E.G. President. No, I'm not going to do that to the State Department's officials. But I trust the highest. Secretary of state not fully, it must only be said at the moment, in this respect. You see, I have not heard any evidence of the work being done here. Therefore, after two years of campaigning the State Department decided that, among other things, there is economic development and that it can lead to that, perhaps after the highest level. A minister is quit, and the next one is in, that some employees should quit, and not be added, but shall be assigned to the others. But the money stays inside. Hv. A senator will discuss his 15 - year experience with the State's budget. If I recall correctly, he was at the Environment Ministry, wasn't he? Would anyone there ever have thought of taking up the Agency or the Organization and entering the Ministry? [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] Then maybe there's an explanation. In case of a moment. A senator will answer yes, and I will just have to say that, as it is, I will be even more surprised by this thought - provoking approach.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u272	A respectable president. This has been shown in the case of some back then. Congress officials feel that they are satisfied with this discussion and how long it has been going on. I don't want to agree with that. On the contrary, I want to thank you for the length of this discussion. This is a good discussion, and as time goes on, it deepens. More than that, and not always happening, she's been deepening as the evening passes. Especially is this true because I was not present here during the last few days, not being able to come, so my first talk on the subject this evening is that of giving my first talk about it. I'm sure it's a little past the evening after a long assembly day, but I have time to come out of my mind. Last year, I was a member of a foreign press committee when the same bill appeared, and I received a very extensive coverage on the Committee and a fine discussion at the council. The first reaction, when I was preparing for a speech this evening, where the bill appears unchanged again at this council, was looking at my talks from spring. I was not free to simply want to move them back, but I do not want to tire out the council. Rather, I want to direct interested ones to my helpful talks from the fact that all are available on the Al Hallis Internet. I also welcome this discussion because I feel that it is important to look at the complex issues from many sides. Thank you. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller for a slave-like speech just now regarding the proposed aspects of this arrangement, which has deepened my understanding and, at the same time, did an unnecessary part of what I wanted to discuss here today. I think it's important to look forward to a developing organization as a model. In recent years it has been given the best recommendations for its activities, how it has developed its functions, and made more efficient. That word has not come from one direction or few, but in the analyses of the Kingdom Accounting, in the analyses of international bodies, in the findings of the DEC, OECD Institute, and I have also not heard better, both in our discussions but as well as in ours, than that of members of Congress and the Supreme Court. Ministers, both present and past, have come in line to praise the function and the professional basis for the activities of the Development Agency. It must matter, not just because we want our institutions to be professional in all their jobs, to be successful with their funding and projects zealously, but especially because the projects of the Development Agency are a bit of a part of the work of government agencies in Iceland. Evolution is an amazing phenomenon, and it is important in the world. Developing cooperation began with the end of the colony period and has, to a large extent, spread to Africa and former colonies there. Over the years, a large number of development aids were involved in direct financial contributions, sponsors, etc. But experience showed that it needed to be more specific. Development teamwork has actually been developing for decades, particularly in the last few years, when the developed countries, which have been building up and working together, have been finding more efficient ways to get the funding to where it works, put them on projects that will help and complete, put it in no emergency assistance or temporary assistance to relieve suffering, rather to strengthen communities in poor countries, to strengthen institutions and communities to save themselves. The figures we've seen, especially from Africa in recent years, show that there's a great deal happening there in many countries, and many countries have put global interest rates and have in economics and founded a huge leap forward. This is most important because developing cohesion has developed into an active structure. It is important to take into account that the development of this international development has been very closely followed by a model in its work, in the way it has done good works with its limited resources in international terms, with a small country ending in Iceland. I welcome this discussion, so happy to learn to give my first talk. As much as talking about developing cooperation in a slightly larger way than just following this suggestion. This proposal focuses primarily on the extravasation of developing cooperation and development cooperation proposals by the Icelanders. I think it's important to dig in on the project and the situation. The assessment of previous years has been made, including questions that have been discussed by the DiaC, the need for changes in Icelandic administration and the outdoor development community. These questions have been raised in connection with the proposed macroevolution of the Icelanders. Today, it is heavier than tears to talk about a change of population that, like a gull. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller pointed out well, could just lead to a huge cost in the country of sufficiency because of the systematic costs available in Iceland, while we look at the repeated contributions made by Iceland to development cooperation compared with the percentage of national incomes. I have not heard certain senators, or members of the local debate, claim that it is not right to aim for the UN goal that in the developed nations, we are going to provide 0.7% of the population's spending for development. The concept behind the work principle, the figure that is likely to be seen in this way by loose air of 0.7%, is, of course, that money is useful, of course, useful. According to a proposal for the interpretation of a strategy on the international development team of Iceland 2016-52019, which was submitted to the last council but has not come back now, did not complete at last Congress, it was assumed that in 2016 Iceland's contributions were 0.23% and that they would increase to 0.25% of the gross national income year after. According to a forward bill now, it appears that we are talking about 0.21%. Dear General, that's a sad figure for me. Especially in the context that since then the General Assembly has recently opened the crisis after the collapse of the bank, it had been approved to reach 0.46%. It's such a long way from once meeting the plans that the General has agreed to and has not agreed to leave. Then, in the circumstances where we cannot see ourselves - one of the richest countries in the world, as we have seen in the discussions, a country where many economics rise after a trial - we do not see our own worth in increasing our donations but reduce them. At the same time, we spend powder to discuss the changes in the founding structure that I'm sorry I can't accept as a reliable guide. True, there are arguments that follow the suggestions. They are the same ones who followed the proposal for last assembly. These discussions, during the discussions of the State Department and the Assembly Hall, raised quite a number of questions and very valid objections. I'm feeling a little sad that we're sort of in the same place, without talking about large amounts of contributions to the seminary. On the contrary, we offer these suggestions to create the danger, the moral problem, that a larger part of this, while less - than - price cake goes to national expense, i.e. around the administration. Interestingly, by mixing it with projects other than the direct two - side development of the Development Agency and linking it with other projects now in the Ministry of State, it will be a temptation to move money away from the floor, away from the work in the countries, in the most necessary communities. I mentioned how grateful I was that this discussion was still here. This is because by the end of last week, I was not here at a council, where I attended the National Assembly of ALDE, a group of liberal Democrats in Europe. There was a lot of talk about security, about the attacks in Paris, about the refugee problem, etc. but also a remarkable and important meeting especially about developing cooperation that seemed to be a reason to spend the time of the council. It was very interesting to meet a liberal Democrat from Britain who, despite being in the middle of a downturn system, took part in the final board, which was the government that made the decision to increase the percentage in Britain and to meet the 0.7% objective. It was remarkable to meet liberal Democrats who had helped to fight for this and to share in the argument why it was important for Britain, despite its difficulties, to have a cohesive role in developing cooperation. Because developing cooperation was not merely a gift money or some tithing but a result of good development in the development of communities and institutions in other communities, as they said, and a good bisness for the outside world and for the United Kingdom. It is important nations that are successful and live in communities that are rich, living in stability and peace, which, in spite of all of us in Iceland, do in spite of big words about all kinds of collapses on the other and the other things. In the big context, we're good. To hear the argument of the liberal Democrats from Britain that in the midst of the problems of refugees and refugees in the world, especially around Europe, there are a large number of refugees from war - torn areas in Syria, Afghanistan, and Iraq, they are not just half of the refugees who come to Europe. The last time I saw a great deal of refugees, at least the Mediterranean, refugees from Africa, from countries that are being assisted by most of the development. It was also interesting to meet a liberal Democrat from Denmark. They're big heroes, like David Beckham's development team over the years. Dana, Danida, is an exemplary organization that all no longer have. During Denmark, changes have been made in Danida, and the development network has been brought closer to political landscapes and recruitments. Sadly, representatives from Denmark admitted that this would have been a tendency to link development cooperation and funds to other projects, the work of peacekeeping, the projects related to the Dana business, in foreign trades politics, etc. I don't want to stand here on the General's deliveries, and I'm going to go to the top. Foreign Minister or State Department officials on that road. On the contrary. However, by diluting the independence of the Development Agency, this transition is a very high risk. The track's starting to scare. Not necessarily our steps in Iceland, but our steps from other countries. It was very good for the member of the council here and for the best outcome in the discussion - which has become long since, especially if we take together the fine discussion and handling of the matter at the last council - to see from the outside, to see which hell should be avoided. In spring, I said that this proposal and my presence on the State Department were actually a series of short - term studies for me in the process of developing cooperation. I'll keep it. Because we've been studying here tonight. I'm getting more and more depth on this project. I have to say, that depth strengthens me in opposition to top bill contribution. Secretary of state. I believe putting down an independent development agency is a very indiscriminate matter. I think it's dangerously professional. I believe that money may be wasted or that it will not be used in their assignments. I believe that the Ministry's surveillance role will be difficult to handle after the operation has been transferred into the Ministry. In the role of a model organisation, I believe it to be quite a misbehavior. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u273	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his speech. He spoke at the beginning and at the end of his talk about general pleasure at the National Institute of Development. The report of the Developmental Cooperative Work Programme, prior to the start of our activities in the Dia-Country, was specifically commended for its ability to distribute power, i.e. To transfer power and decision to an emissary office where their representatives are active. This was of interest to me, especially in view of the fact that developing cooperation has been in recent decades, at least two lasts, based on working with the local people on building and building within but not with large solutions from outside which may be doomed to change social and other aspects of society, and not necessarily for the better. In particular, the Agency is being commended for granting its emissaries certain freedoms to carry out different assignments with their local inhabitants each time as the local people consider most important to themselves. I found that interesting to read. I'm a little afraid that this vision, in which men only watch development cooperation in its most clear form, may eventually be lost. Then I'm not saying that it's because council workers are unrecognizable, no, when the projects are so close to political power, the emphasis of the times to be controlled is likely to be more than mere professionalism in which professionals are protected by an institution.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u274	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator very much for this answer. There she came on a case that I just didn't win the time to come in on. As a result, evolution has been an outstandingly strong and successful development in development since the arrival of the rich countries that all know how to do things, how to control them from top to outside, into more conversation with the communities that are being helped. Societys are to be asked what they need, and then they work in an effort to help them. This is one of the things the development community, independent and professional practices, has been getting a particularly good score for, how the development of a research agency has gained independence and a professional control of this cooperation and choice of partners. How Iceland's Development Agency has worked directly on the local and rural level, in countries that are relatively larger control systems, has been particularly effective in carrying out projects. This is especially true on the basis of this fact that a developing cohesion agency has been entrusted with funds from other countries and sources. She is trusted professionally to get as much money as possible. Certainly, there is a risk that this could be lost by increasing media control.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u275	A respectable president. That's an interesting point, too. Do you think that there may be a lower chance that money from outside, trusted in a developing research agency for going with non-U.S. government, goes to the Ministry of another State instead of going to an independent agency? There are now some of the things I think it's important for a person to take a look at them. I don't see anything about this being discussed on the Committee, and I evaluated it when it was decided to turn this case out at the speed it really is going to be. I'm sorry. I'd like to see it measured. Is it customary for foreign partners to give money to the ministry of other countries? Maybe, I just don't know. It would be interesting, then, to find an example. As for the discussion here, I have found a measure of uncomfortable how the few members of the council that arise and try to defend the case suggesting that we are calling the Ministry's employees unconcerned or that they are going to fail with money, as mentioned earlier. I don't like that discussion anymore. What we are trying to criticize is that these professionals do not get a clear explanation for their professional activities but have come too close to political power. When political power is so close to the money, there is a tendency to call one and another development teamwork, which, in our opinion, in a very gray area, is at least not the developing team that we know today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u276	A respectable president. I want to agree with what. A senator that it is boring to hear the discussion when our criticism of these suggestions is turned into a lack of confidence in the personnel of the Ministry of State. I made it clear in my speech that I don't think there are much worse people in that house than there are in the house next to where the development community is working. On the contrary. I think there is a good mind in both places and he will, of course, move over with staff, if it is accepted that the Agency will be admitted to the Ministry. On the other hand, the firmness of professional work becomes very different in the Ministry, where there will be certain temptations experienced by other nations, where there will be great problems in developing cooperation with foreign interests. There's a lot of trouble with developing cooperation if it's too close to peacekeeping, so you don't talk about what can be called military activity. The link between institutions to governments that have even participated in warfare has simply been affected by development cooperation and the relief efforts of Western countries. I don't expect this development to be a major change. On the other hand, there is the danger with the professional contribution to the professional work done by the political element. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u277	Mr. President. I didn't want to pass on thanking you. paritaprevir Óttar of Proppér for his talk, at least in one reply. Of course, I am happy with the basic results he has come to understand in this matter and summed up very well in his speech. Most interesting, though, was the news he made about his international experiences and meetings with opinions, and -smooths with liberal Democrats and example from Britain. That's just a lot of thought for us, and you can ask yourself: " What are we here to pay on with the right control or right-center government that goes the opposite way to what has become the political decision in Britain? That's interesting. The first government in Britain set such goals for itself, such as it was. A senator mentioned. And as far as I know, the current government there, a clean conservative government, has declared that it will not compromise its objectives and has achieved the proportion of development cooperation on the part of the British government to the specified 0.7%. If we compare the economic situation in Britain and Iceland, the British are still fighting the state's population. They have more unemployment than we do. I assume Iceland's debts are falling from what they are in the UK. Many social security numbers have become more favorable in Iceland than they are today, and they were with the British when they decided, in spite of significant economic difficulties, not to compromise. But here we are going down to see the fifth consecutive economic growth. I'm impressed that this language group is this way in Iceland, that it's a lot of leftovers. I don't know what it is. A senator may be able to say so, but perhaps we should suggest that present governmental groups break up in Britain and learn the status of their brothers there. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-24-39.u278	A respectable president. I thank the answer, and especially the meditation it contained. It certainly was a joy for me and us in a bright future to meet with our brothers and realize that they are ambitious and have had ambitious work to do when it comes to developing cooperation. As I mentioned in my talk, the thought for me that has been grumbling about these matters for months in Iceland was that it would not only be morally good or kind enough to be handsome in evolutionary cooperation and to engage in a decent business to raise poor communities, but it would be just good business. It would be positive for the land that provides the development of money and help to provide assistance. That it was not a cost but an investment. It was so refreshing to hear that point because I have not experienced it in my discussion here in Iceland. Perhaps the Icelanders have become so accustomed to thinking, since we're out here in the prom sea and have developed relatively late economics, that we deserve everything, and that the world owes us, not the other way. It was especially important for me to get involved in the discussion that it was an investment, even for a small country like Iceland.
