ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u1	A respectable president. Hv. A member of the United States stated that she does not have a complete understanding of the language she is encouraging us to accept. Here she argues and encourages us to accept a case that she says is not fully understood. I'm fine with that. I forgive her. She said earlier that we were dealing with problems at 1 up. One billion that should be solved by 379 billion. The difference there is over 600 billion. Well, maybe. A senator solved my lack of understanding of 1st of yours. billions of problems with 379 billion? Hv. Similarly, a senator said that a stable tax may conflict with a constitution and require judicial action to resolve it. That's what I'm talking about. A senator thus saying that to free a court case, people are willing to sacrifice 600 billion dollars.? That'll cost more than 600 billion dollars. To escape justice, as we have seen this evening? About the crew. It's true we're involved in what they're walking out of the country, because it's this team that's causing the damage. [[The president calls.]] It was this team that caused the damage to the land and the homes in the country and the breadwinners. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Yes, it has something to do with what they get out of the moat.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u2	A respectable president. It's a bit of a way out of the way, isn't it? A senator who spoke for 30 years here tonight, I think. Of course, I did not say that I did not fully understand the case under discussion. I can absolutely say, and what. A senator can take comfort in this, that I have a complete understanding of the case I had in my history about here from a financial and business committee, i.e. the legal aspects involved in forced agreements and stable taxes. Hv. A senator well knows that lack of understanding is the result of another's visit. Congress officials and I were subject to the rest of the stability conditions, some of which. Hv. A senator mentioned the case. Of course, this is not the case with people who are afraid of the judicial case. The fear, however, is to sit here with a capital master, a currency head, for another year. That's what we want to get rid of, and we want to get rid of the oceans right next year. [[The president calls.]] That's what we stress. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u3	Steinar Jóhannsson, former general, died late Sunday at Dalavík residence in Dalvik. He was only 62 years old, but he had had a number of losses to fight cancer. Steinar Jóhannsson was born on June 12, 1953. His parents were Jóhann Ásgrímsson Helgason, a sailor, and his wife, Valrós Árnadóttir. Árni's Steinar completed at Dalvik in 1969. After a year of high school in the United States, he attended the State Gardening School and finished a test in 1974, and he went to the University of Agriculture in Copenhagen for five years, until 1979. Then he moved to Akureyri, where he became the gardener and later the manager of the environment into 1999 when elected to the General Assembly. After being a member of Congress, Steinar's Aggressor for a time was an independent environmental adviser, who was later employed as environmental manager of the Far East and performed that work during the energence. Steinar Árni was in the management and institutions of its special field and was involved in the international cooperation of gardeners and wood growers. He was in the board of directors of the Raikks 2008-2014 and was chairman of the Board of Directors since May 2009. As a young man, Steinar Jóhannsson was very interested in national affairs, had radical opinions, and fought for national views and distribution. Take great care of him in his conduct and conduct within and outside the council. He led the National Party in the North-End of 1991 and got interesting results, lacked little in order to receive a seat of Congress. He was later running for the People's Coalition and Independent, and in 1999 he was in second place on the left movement's list of green offers and was elected as a member of Congress that ideal period, to our year 2003. He had previously been a deputy senator twice, and two times later, he sat down as a deputy. He was sitting in nine different Congresss all over the place. Árni's Steinar was one of the vice presidents of the Generals, while he had a permanent seat where he was capable, well dead, and a great deal of culture. As a result, he became a friend of many, ignoring whether political alliances or opposers were involved. Steinar Jóhannsson's spirit will be the members of the General Assembly, as well as others he met, remembering how pure he was, cheerful and humorous, as well as responsible, diligent professional, and ambitious in his work. He had green fingers and took up the pioneer work in various parts of the earth. He was popular wherever he worked for his sincerity, knowledge, and interest in his assignments, and he left behind in the mind of traveling companions a thoughtful picture of a gentleman. Wait a minute. Allied men to remember the Árni of Steinar son of Jóhannsson, a former general, by rising from their seats. - [[Senators rose from seats.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u4	V.E.G. President. I'm going to discuss the recent visit of the Allied delegation to the United Nations Regular Committee for Iceland, but it is customary to go at all. Every year, four members of the General Assembly, designated by their members. I am grateful that I had had that opportunity along with three others. Congress to attend the United Nations and participate in the 70th General Assembly at the end of September, which, as most of them know, came together with the leaders of Member States and adopted 17 new development goals, world goals. At the council's embassy, we attended, including A meeting of the Council of Economic and Social Affairs, the General Assembly, and the Council of Safety, was introduced to the work of the Council of Economic and Social Affairs as well as to study the activities of a number of institutions. Most significant, though, was the power and efficiency that characterized the conduct of our people in the field. We don't have the largest outfit in the country, but we have a sense of work, determination, and hard work on people of our own, and respect for Iceland's contributions and jobs abroad, which had nothing to do with business, and which helped establish our meetings and conversations with representatives of various committees and institutions. Because we are applying ourselves, we have achieved remarkable results, for example, to form gender equality, in the affairs of the sea, in land healing, energy and climate, food security, and, above all, UNICEF's child support in Iceland. Well, then it's got the highest. The government was preaching more campaigns with the UN Refugee Funds and other institutions that deal with the complex conditions that exist today. I think it is important to present it here as our representative on this mission this year to see how important it is to maintain and further strengthen the link between our council and the United Nations activities of our Icelanders.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u5	Mr. President. Sometimes it is said: "In contrast, I am in the process of thinking groups such as the Independence Party and the Left Greens, both of whom recently held a national meeting. We often agree that the Tetragrammaton, as if it were just one organization here at a council called a foursome. In this regard, it is interesting to compare the emphasis on approved by the national conventions of these two categories. The right course is with the Independence Party, where the market laws are made loose. The Independence Party issued a suggestion that resource regulations be placed in a constitution. They want privatization of the health and education system, in a fine way a wide variety of business forms. They want to sell RUV. You have to move to finance companies. Officials are required to collect school fees, the camp loans are drawn from the market, and their personal banks are allowed to operate there. They speak of a marvelous rate of government spending, which, of course, responds to the welfare services and that the rural community will extend as most of the tasks to private people where they can make the best use of private resources. In contrast, a left - green national meeting agreed to protect the VOLV. He agreed to make radical changes in the fishing system and to change the constitution and to receive a resource directive into it during this terms of election. He agreed to increase contributions in the interior of society and encouraged the establishment of a resource fund to exploit common resources. That's the way you keep counting. But one thing is good from an independent national meeting, i.e. that the process in the frame plan should be agreed, that it would not be carried out. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's a pleasure. They think they're on the environmental front. I'm just saying, "Let Guð know."
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u6	V.E.G. President. The absolute consumption of natural resources has provided the basis for Iceland's prosperity. International cooperation on sustainable use of natural resources has become one of the most important subjects of the international community today. Since Iceland and I have largely established our economy on the cleaner nature and sustainable use of natural resources, this cooperation is very important to us. For example, the growing public awareness of environmental issues encourages responsible fishing. Fishing management in Iceland has been formative for decades, taking into account that fishing is at the same time practical and sustainable in terms of the innovation and maintenance of the natural resource. Emphasis on sustainability and respect for nature are built into the fishing governance system, which involves economic motivation for good relations and the guidance of long - term interests. We have managed to turn back from overfishing and overexploitation of marine resources to run a sea route that guarantees sustainable and profitability. Iceland is seen as an example in this field of fishing based on extensive research and intensive monitoring of fishing and total resources. The key to the valuable creation of this system is the environmental protection itself, and it has to be remembered that economics and environmental protection are not opposites but interactive factors. The environmental awareness of corporate leaders and the general public continues to increase the demand for clean environments and the traceability of food is increasing accordingly. In this context, I would like to call attention to the very good efforts of HB Granda, which opened up a garbage company in Reykjavík yesterday to the pattern of the company's operate on weapons for several years. By doing this, the company is taking responsibility for the amount of waste that falls into the company, whether on the sea or on the land. This is an example of how companies wrap environmental protection into all their work ethics. The premise that there will be a success of Icelandic employment over the years and the country's standard of living is respect for the environment, the use of resources and sustainability.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u7	A respectable president. Power is the most important control of society's discussions. When it comes to the shape of public opinion, its rulers are in a key position. We live in a small society where the media are few and often powerless. In such a community, it can be easy to reach the program, control the discussion, seize power, make people think that whites are black and cold. [[Like you've got...]] By often hammering on a particular man's food, new truths come into play. Our viewpoints are mainly shaped by the media, what we see, and what we hear. We accept information, appreciate it, and draw conclusions. If we hear enough of the same statements, they often become new truths. Icelandic mediamen do most of their work as well and as well as they can. Yet, they differ as many of them. For example, do they believe that the Morning Press does not hold out certain political views or values? Do people really believe that Internet services such as the reactor and the hour did not have political aggressor to show themselves to be the same? And there is nothing wrong with that in itself. [[Up front.]] Personalized media has full permission to hold political views. It is our general, however, to ensure that, as most of our opinions are allowed to appear, the public can make informed decisions. Social networking, where all can communicate only to a small extent will solve the problem. Often there are groups of loud people who are trying to control and to exert the greatest influence on social talk. The voices of the others will be under. The last year before the collapse, most of the major media of the country had been divided into two different brain blocks. One was directed by Jón Ásgeir, Jóhannesson's son, and the other by the Björgólfur Guðmundsson. Do we want a financial organization to reach every social speech in Iceland? Does it make sure that most views are allowed to enjoy themselves? [[Foreground on: No.]] This is mentioned here because there is still another discussion about the future of VOLV. Now the news agency is certainly not above criticism, but perhaps it is time to pause and ask: How is an informed discussion best paid? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u8	V.E.G. President. In the Government Treaty of the Foreign and Independence Party, it says, by permission of the President: The consumer loans and reorganisation of the Homlock market will be organized in the first days of a new government and will be replaced before the next year. In August 2013, a team of experts on excommunications of consumer loans was appointed, and they returned to their results in January 2014. The results were found in the majority of aluminium and special masks. In the majority of them, even by permission of presidents, it says: In particular, policy makers for decoding the full amount of insurance will have been able to lay the foundation of a new housing system, explain the status of an apartment loan fund, and reciprocate the pension system. This is already done by the government, and it runs easily. We'll see, for example, in the next few days. main points about the housing market are listed. As mentioned in the debates, why not? The senators, both the parish and the Independence Party, are at the top of the insurance policy. Secretary of finance. An interview at dawn said the highest. Secretary of finance that two measures were under investigation to reduce the value of insurance, i.e. To forbid so-called Iceland loans and to extend the minimum duration of price-separated loans. It's a good first step, but it has to go fast and fast. As a result, the insurance will have to be taken care of. Therefore, it is very enjoyable to see a new approved economic and business committee from a recent national meeting of independents, which says, by permission of the president: A meeting suggests that the government has the most skilled foreign experts in the world to evaluate how to replace the valuable loan environment and take out the loans that are known to us in our neighboring countries. This is not to say whether it is right but only to what it will be done. I say, "Let's sleeve up, and let's do the talking." We need to replace the growth of homes when they invest in housing, i.e. The insurance policy. A respectable president. The course of home debt is not to be financed. [[The president calls.]] It can't happen, not this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u9	V.E.G. President. This morning's Web News reports on samples and evidence concerning sexual violations, but samples and evidence of the emergency room are stored for two months, or nine weeks, and so they are destroyed. The situation of the emergency room is not open to such a delicate case and difficult case, as we do. The emergency room has a position in a small room at Fos Soil Hospital. Similarly, evidence and samples, such as underwear, are stored in a closet in that room. The mission manager of the emergency room makes it clear how important it is for the sufferers to sue the offense immediately. He says it's been shown that they're better off in the system where a decision is made early. In fact, there are cases where teenage girls failed because of rape when it became clear that evidence had been destroyed. Of course, the evidence should not be deleted until the expiration date has not been established. It seldom happens that people will make a decision long later, but it is not for others to decide the time that victims need. I want law to take over everybody. So I want to encourage both the police and the emergency department to continue in their work and give a lot of emphasis on improving the status of the reception. There, governments can come. Clearly, a review of regulations regarding storage of evidence is needed, since this procedure should not be designed to impose pressure on victims of sexual abuse. They are to make their own decision, and it is for us to have the legal environment and the circumstances that people need.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u10	Mr. President. I'd like to thank the representatives of the SALEK Group so-called group for reinstitution of cooperation in the implementation of improved labour contracts in Iceland to the Norwegian model and thereby contribute to the resolution of a very serious battle that was involved, but recently solved. SECURK stands for the National Remuneration Committee and the Economic Presidents of labour agreements. That the Committee is the four-way body of pay-employers, the Democratic Union, the Union of colleges, the Union of Government and Towns and the Teacher Union of Iceland, and the Directorates of Employment Associations, the United States of Iceland and the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs. The group has for the past three years had the main objective of developing contracts that are common in other parts of the North countries, where they take into account the scope of the competitiveities and then negotiate. The objective is to ensure that collective agreements do not threaten stability. So I say, "Go on, SALEK, and change the work of this country's labour contracts permanently. "
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u11	Mr. President. I come up here for a number of e - mails received from midwives that were not paid for their work during the time of strike. Their pay in the strike was calculated in accordance with financial letters with a set formula. The midwives carried this on social matters, and in the speciality of social law, two of the five judges assume that this rule applies to day work rather than shifting. On April 7, until June 13, midwives were on strike until the International Assembly passed laws on the major category of women in the medical system. The midwives had a strike during this period of Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday. According to the above formula, the work of midwives was thought to be only five days a week, Monday through Friday, but everyone knows that the nature of this job is so that it is not just five days a week that children are born here. So midwives worked their shifts, but it remains that 60% of their wages are withdrawn. Mr. President. Although social security has reached a different conclusion and the State that an employer cannot tolerate, this is a failure. The secretary of finance must ensure that government employees are paid for their employment. Another is a crying injustice, must be illegal, and will lead to a new conflict that will make it harder to resolve, and still more will come true.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u12	Mr. President. I'd like to make up the subject of an organization that's been a lot between people's teeth and the media lately and that's what we're doing, our State Radio. I'll allow me to question the interpretation of what? In view of the e - mail he uses, a senator and the vice president of the Board of Shepherds, as shown in the Morning Press this morning. I don't understand him any other way than what he's saying. A senator does. I really hope that the discussion will reveal the right thing, for it is requesting confirmation that the financial information and management programs that RUS has been turned in to the Ministry of finance for a conditional contribution, which was very controversial here in the budget, would be sufficient. I therefore understand the e-mail, a respected president, which states that the data are in accordance with the conditions set by a financial committee at 2nd. ... abundant. I allow me to understand it, as if that would mean that RUS has fulfilled its duty. I'm also asking myself, this is March, that if you had to call for additional data, if it hadn't been done. At least there are no e - mails to confirm that. The operation has been inexorably in the past year, and a major reversal has taken place, as noted and to view the report presented here as the only major truth in the case is the most questionable in my opinion. I also think those who are working on the solution, i.e. The three Ministry, Presidency, Education, and Financial Ministry have concluded that this has been the case. That is why I feel that those who have as much responsibility as president and vice president of the legal committee need to go to the earth carefully and take care of their words.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u13	Mr. President. I'd like to make a statement and ask why. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson in an advertisement made by some organization of better hospitals in any better place has published in the press, a challenge at the General and the government regarding a new Hospital. What caught my attention was at the moment. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson is signing this challenge to himself. I especially ask because of what. A senator approved the 2015 budget with a budget of 945 million. K. to build a Hospital on Ring Road. He has also adopted a government budget for 2016-52019 by financing over the years to build a Land Hospital on Ring Road. And it has contributed to the contribution of a budget bill for the next year, with an estimated 1800 million. K. to start a new hospital on Ring Road, and a shovel will soon be taken there. That's why I want to ask you why. The senator's votes at the council and the support he has shown the case, as I have mentioned. But then comes this advertisement that he writes, where he actually encourages himself and others to say no to what he has said yes to at the Council. I have strongly criticized this organization for going out so late with their opposition to the matter, where a professional decision has been made, and I support it because I believe this is the best way to decide. But, hey. So a senator says yes at work but challenges himself to say no. And I have to say exactly as it is, I think this is a dangerous and ugly game, up to that demented deity. That's why I want to ask you why. A senator's position, as well as several other candidates, and especially the highest. Even so, prime minister. A senator is not answering for him, but he has also spoken in a very serious way in this regard in these last stages of construction. [[The president calls.]] Come on, come on, come on. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u14	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator is very much concerned with this question. First, I want to say that I've changed my mind many times and that I want what's true. When a good and careful argument is presented, as with the organization's better hospitals in a better place, I find out what arguments I give myself. A senator to do, and at that point, I feel that it does not matter whether it will be late, but it will not fail if it is late to reveal knowledge and to provide better and clearer information. I find the evidence very convincing. The only objective requirement is to be made, regardless of where to place the Lands Hospital in the long future. We're not building for five or ten years, we're building for 100 years. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator is completely in agreement with me that from this building, we invest for 60 to 100 billion dollars, and tens of billions of dollars a year will run into the business that will take place there. How this matter will be held matters, therefore, is of vital importance. I think it is also very important that in the decades since this place was the best, much has changed. I'm not going to question the fact that the place on Ring Road was very desirable at the time of the hospital's being built, but then much has changed into the city's organization and spread around. It is enormously expensive to build an old, out - of - date home, both expensive and time - consuming, and to cause much noise in current activities. Hospital operations under 20 roofs with long corridors between each other are very undesirable. It will be quite clear in this movie to have such a beast in this place that will come out of the city. I think the calculations presented by the organization are relatively convincing and call for further inspection. It would be a responsibility if we would not listen to such challenges. [[The president calls.]] Again and again, I challenge the council and those taking the case to have such an assessment of the hospital's location. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u15	A respectable president. A new study of the Guðbjörg of Lilja Rafnsdóttir and the Þorgerður of Einarsdóttir, professors at the University of Iceland's Social Science, presents striking findings on the attitudes and status of the sexes in Icelandic professional life. According to this study, based on data on influential populations in 245 of the largest enterprises in the country, 82% of the cases are men in the greater part of the Commission. In 8.6% of the enterprises the gender ratio is equal. Women are less than 1 in 10 top executives in the companies of the country. The study also shows that men in positions of influence within these enterprises believe that the situation is this because women do not have time to take on influential positions because of domestic work or because they cannot cope with the pressures. However, women believe that the situation is this because recruitment is done informally and men do not trust women or find it hard to work with women managers. A respectable president. It's really serious, and I don't understand why we're not talking about it all the time. If this is the attitude of the commercial world, what's the status of the public system? I would like to scream at the fathers'empire to stop this bullshit, but since I'm particularly good at working under stress and normally not doing chores without doing something else, I wondered what we can do here to change this, and especially the attitude. For example, can we walk ahead with a good example, perhaps taking seriously the role of women in positions of authority? For example, can we watch places like the Supreme Court, the miserable party that women seem to have no access to because they have some sort of sexless supermen who are not distracted by gender, unlike us women, who allow stress and household chores and our sex to get in the way of everything? For example, can we watch the percentage of local and government senators? In 2015 and the rest of the period, the ratio should be equal. [[The president calls.]] I do not agree with the rules and regulations myself, but I believe that sexuality in corporate governments has been an enormously important step in changing these attitudes, and I encourage all of us to look at these findings very seriously and ask us what further we can do. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u16	President wants to ask why. Councilmen give up cursing and cursing from the public assembly chair.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u17	Good President. Now I don't know if this remark was presented in a row for the rosary, but I prefer not to take it that way. I'm going to start by saying something. Karl I do not agree with him that the media in private property and, in particular, the media that were specified, specifically mention the Garðarsson of the media, have some political or political policy, even though they are critical. The authors of the media, editors, and journalists are known for their writings, e.g. on economic issues and have done it very well and have been respected across classes, I think. In any case, the person present has at times been exposed to their writings; they have not been particularly hostile to my point of view. Hv. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson discussed the importance of information, the making of informed decisions, and the public having access to information. There he referred specifically to RU, so I rejoice. I prefer to view the conclusion of his words as an appeal to the importance of maintaining the MRV. Yesterday, I asked the highest. Secretary of finance specific questions about the swelling farms, old banks, and they didn't get any answers. I wanted to make an informed decision and deliver my case with evidence and with arguments I can't get because I can't get answers, I just get corneas. That's why I've decided to ask a question that will be submitted later today to the highest degree. The secretary of finance with the exact questions or questions I raised yesterday but did not get any answers, as well as other questions we need to find out. [[The president calls.]] But if they don't answer, I'm counting on it. þm. Karl Cameronsson to help me get that information so that we can make an informed decision in that matter. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I know I'm not gonna be naked with him next to me in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u18	V.E.G. President. One of the greatest evils in Iceland we have is the interest of banks. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] In a sense, the Icelandic nation is like a galley slave who is the most efficient under the rhythms of Iceland's Pentateuch, which establishes rules and puts it to the interest by having a fruit that is higher than that of any other country. It goes on and on, and so on. in the increase of housing costs, i.e. Unconvinced, it's approximately 7◯8%. In the countries around us, interest rates are around 1.5 to2.5% common. It is not enough that this super-growing policy of the Federal Republic of Nations causes problems for the housekeepers. It contributes to higher prices and low commercial rates of smaller companies, to name one. It is worth considering that in Britain, with the cost targets of the bank of the land of 2%, control height has been 0.5% for a relatively long time. In Iceland, the cost of Iceland's Bank is 2.5%, and inflation has been blessed to these targets for some time, and we have enough opportunity to continue, including Because of the strength of a crown - if you don't have enough money to put it back into the prices, you can do it. I wondered, because sometimes you have to ask like a child: What would happen in Iceland if interest levels in general were to decrease by about two to three percentages, so that in Iceland the control interest rate could be around 3% and the interest rate for housing may be in the range of 4How5%? [[The president calls.]] I wondered what would happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u19	Mr. President. The United Nations Children's Covenant says, with permission of a president: ▪ Member State must take all appropriate measures to ensure that a child is not discriminated against or punished for the status or actions of his parents. It also says: ▪ The Member State shall respect the right of a child separated from the parent or his parents in order to maintain a personal relationship and to direct both of them in a regular manner. It should not be necessary to remind Iceland that the contract has been validated by the Children's Treaty in 1992 and that the contract has also been made legal in Iceland. Sadly, though, all too often there is reason to do so. The law on the ultimate punishment says, by permission of the President: A prison official must arrange for children to visit and be tactful. A member of the General Assembly pointed out that according to the Constitution, children will be guaranteed by the law the protection and care required by their well - being and in the Icelandic rights of the forbidden principle of putting their child's interests first, as recommended in the children's covenant. It also shows that family life is protected in the Constitution and the European Convention of Human Rights. Surely it is clear to everyone that these human rights agreements, regulations, and laws protect this right child so well because the emotional, the quality of life, the present, and the future are at stake, as are their parents and many others. How, then, can it be that governments make it possible that a situation prepared for children to meet on the weekends of their fathers who stay at Littleun was closed? Is it not obvious that weekends are often the longest available time for such visits, and for many, the only one to be considered? Mr. President. V.E.G. The Minister of the State must show in its work that governments take their serious duties under human rights contracts, constitutions, and laws to protect children and priorities in their behalf by immediately allowing the ideal facilities for children to meet their fathers on the weekend. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u20	A respectable president. I measure to the opinion of the greater part of the Economic and Business Committee on this matter, case No. 172, a bill for a change in income tax law, a law for special taxes on financial companies and financial law. There's a figure of the nominee on the deck. 353. In view of this, however, the Commission suggests some changes in the bill, and it is available on deck. In principle, I refer to these documents. But I'm going to explain to you the changes in the parts listed in the paper. 354. I'd also like to say in the beginning that it was, at least, to my opinion, there are some agreements in the Committee on Paying the Case, and not to any material differences with members of the Committee, although at this moment there are two minor opinions. The bill was presented in an effort to provide the basis for the legislation of taxpayers under the Convention on Strategies, No. 60/2015, can complete the break-up phase for having received a contract confirmed in court for next year's convention, they choose it. The contribution of this bill is that over the past few weeks it has been found that the legislation is not sufficiently efficient, and in some respects blurred, so that the precipices of the fallen financial companies are having to complete a short contract with their demands by the way I was describing it. However, the review of the Commission revealed that the bill as presented does not necessarily address the legal interpretation and the deadline set down by the law itself in this form by the legislation on stable taxes, No. 60/2015, the Committee will suggest a change in the bill. I'd like to go first to chapter I of the bill, but the section has to do with the change of income tax law. With 1 st. sets the bill to change the income tax laws so that bonds published in their own name by so - called broilers will be avoided by tax deduction, like the bonds specified in the current 8th count of 1 mg. Section 3. The income taxes. The bill assumes that the stocks of broken stocks are added to the bonds listed there. The committee, however, considered it proper to make sure that the exception is only applicable to the stock exchange of the colporteurs in connection with the continuation of the tenet contract. The majority of the committee suggests a change that will be a new 2nd paragraph. The bill and the provisional terms of LVI in income tax laws, the provision of the provisional principle, assumes that after-partment debt due to the making of the contract will be turned into stock. In itself, it is unnatural to bind tax freedom to the form of change into cash, and in view of this, the Committee suggests a number of changes in the provisional regulations of income taxation so as to no longer stipulate the requirement to be changed into the stocks needed to enjoy tax freedom. On the other hand, what to do in terms of paying taxes is to be given. This involved several discussions on the committee. As a result of the amendment of the majority of the Committee, the post-treatment debt is expected to be considered to be taxable to pay until all of its overreachable tax losses since previous management years and the tax loss of the current year has been fully leveled, as further described in the Committee's section of the Committee and I refer to it. At that time the Commission saw the need for the provision of the temporary law of LVI as also a requirement for the handling of the donor and for the conversion of the taxpayers, such demands as individuals and companies with either unlimited or limited tax obligations in Iceland. The committee felt that it was right to justify current authorization by the operator in order to force lost demands on his income to obtain a postmortem charge at the underprivileged agreements discussed in this issue. There is also a change in the LVI provision of income tax laws in connection with extensions which I intend to arrive in particular later on, which falls under section I of the bill. I'll get to Il then. section of the bill that deals with the law of a special tax on financial enterprise, No. 155/2010, and the Committee has not suggested any change in this section. III. Chapter 3 of the bill deals with a change in financial law, No. 161/2002, especially 3 mg. 103. g. a of their songs. There, a greater proportion of the committee contributes to a number of changes. First of all, there is a change in a- team 3. The committee agrees with the view of Article 3. a Not at all costs in line with the practice that has developed in the years that have been operated on to meet the protocol requirements and that the reference date may be highly inhibited for closing the logs, i.e. close to completion of the vote and distribution of the farms is the day when a contract is submitted. These observations were given to the committee in the treatment of the case. That was a human assessment, and the committee concluded that there must be a set amount of space regarding this time limit. Therefore, a change to Article 3 is hereby proposed. a As a result. For the b- team 3. The bill was expressed concern that there could be a legal uncertainty about the position of broken management between the period of confirmation of a contract of the decision and the end of the contract because of the 4 mg parity. 101st par. track No. 161/2002, a financial law, fell down at the end of the break - up treatment, as it puts it, a clear premium of broken management needs to be established at the time of confirmation of a contract. For this reason, a greater proportion of the Committee would like to be declared by law No. 59/2015, adopted at the General Assembly this summer, was not different. It is not intended to change the current rights of this bill or the changes made by a greater proportion of the committees on the bill. In view of the majority of the Committee, there is no need for special protection in the joint control following confirmation of the fixed-label contract in the case of completion of the break-up treatment with a confirmed CAP contract. However, the majority of the committee agree with regulations 4 mg. 101st par. Acting on financial companies, and actually 103. gr. a Also in its own way, may be blurred and thus suggest a change of the 8th sentence. 103. g. a as detailed in the Committee's opinion. Then I'll come to the c- team 3. There, more part of the Economic and Business Committee contributes to changing, towards the proportion of what is necessary behind the approval of a labour agreement bill. The committee gave a detailed discussion on this point. With the evidence that this is not a forced contract aimed at restoring the debt society, the committee suggests that the proportion is at a minimum of 60% and a maximum of 85% of the votes paid at a meeting of bill approval. I refer, in other respects, to a panel of members of the Committee. A greater proportion of the Economic and Business Committee contributes to a further improvement in Article 3. 103. g. A and then I come to a few things that will be counted new into the bill. The Committee suggests the 6th issue of Article 3. 103. g. a will be changed to include the words ▪ or stocks to be added followed by the words '-forty items' and to the 7th verses of 3 mg. 103. g. a is currently taking changes to enable autologous centres in the treatment of break-up diseases. With law No. 59/2015, who were supplied in the summer, added clearance to increase the share and to reduce the total older funds of a financial enterprise in the treatment of the wear and teares under conditions laid down in the case. According to the words, the rule applies only to financial companies who were formerly involved in the management of a partner. Of course, the same circumstances can apply to savings institutions of self - interest who are under treatment for fragmentation. Therefore, the Commission suggests that after the seventh case, a new hearing will be referred to a financial company that was once employed as a savings fund. These last two changes are aimed at picking up the enterprises that used to work as savings or at least not in the business enterprise as a partner. 6 mg. 103. g. a discussed by the Committee. This paragraph is a rule in bankruptcy, which means that there is no need to give a direct payment directly to the requirements of the labour agreements. Rather, it is possible to pay a financial bill. The majority of the panels here suggest that the paragraph also includes incidents in which financial bills cannot be cashed into. This is because pay contracts may be placed in the form of items or stocks that cannot be deposited. I refer to the Committee's opinion of the majority of the Committee on the matter. Finally, more part of the Economic and Business Committee suggests that there will be a new section in the bill called section IV, which is responsible for changing the law on stable taxes, No. 60/2015, and there will be a new article that would be Article 5. The bill. The committee counts correctly, considering that now it is uncertain whether breakpoints will be successful for years, i.e. with the confirmation of a regional judgment by the end of the year, to grant laws to those under the tax laws on stable taxes until March 15th, 2016, in order to resolve matters that do not result in tax obligations, they prefer to complete the break-offs with the contract. On the contrary, the contract must have been agreed by the requirements and submitted to a regional court for years to be considered as paying on a stable tax law. On this point, the Committee consulted with the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and in this regard the Committee considers it proper to turn LVI's provisional law into income tax laws, as I came to the beginning of my case, in order to maintain harmony. The difference lies in the nature of Article 4. The bill, of course, who takes the change according to the changes made, returns, is a valid command, and is moving in the back. The majority of the Committee does not suggest any change in a- and b-joints, but in terms of the c-authorities, the majority contributes to the extending of budget companies in broken-up therapy that have not held votes for bill to forced agreement. So I've traced the changes that more than a part of the Economic and Business Committee suggests that the council approves this bill and will finally thank all members of the committee for their objective discussion and good cooperation. Under this view, the publication of the above - mentioned publication appears. Councilmen Frosti Sigurjónsson, chairman of the Economic and Business Committee, Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir, Steingrímsson Steingmfímsson, Vilhjálmur Bjarnason and Guðre Þór Þórðarson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u21	A respectable president. I want to thank you. The speaker and the report for the change. My question lies to the great setting of this matter. As we all know, there is now a policy to authorize the house of broken - up homes and foreign demands to take money out of the country, to free from the payment of a stable tax by paying a variety of other contributions. The big question that we need to answer and be sure is the right answer to governments is whether it is justified in providing the great discount of the tax that is expected to be done with the approval of these stability proposals, to some hundred billion. I understand that in the treatment of the case before the committee, I have been represented by the Invenge who has raised doubts about the well - being of this matter. It is very important to listen to all the doubters in this regard, for we have only one shot in the gun, as the bank manager has been diligent to remind us, and it is extremely important that we make it so important that we do not allow foreign demands to escape from the country, leaving the people and local companies and local citizens in the country. That's what I'm talking about. A senator is convinced that it is justified in providing the high price of the stable tax, which involves the surrender and receiving various forms of donations other than the financial contributions under the markings of stability, and that the comments were answered by Inveffence in this regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u22	A respectable president. To answer that question, of course, there would have to be a clear answer to the question of whether the stability tax as such would have been sufficient to address the problem facing and still face the foreign demands here. Hv. paritaprevir The Árni Páll Árnason asks whether the discount is properly administered in this light. I don't think it's right to settle the case, so someone is being given off the stable tax. It was planned during the last assembly that there would be two ways to go; to pay this tax, or to go out, of contracts and then to accept the agreements of the National Bank and of those who have taken the perspective of the nation's economic situation. When it comes to comparing the two benefits together, they have to face the fact that by paying a stable tax, it would not have necessarily been permanently prevented later from making trouble. The possessions of the foreign demands would still have been here, possibly growing, and becoming a new problem, another problem later. So I don't think it can be compared like this. In reality, this is a natural course, and the course is gone to demands themselves. But I believe that the way I like to aim for the future will be good for the nation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u23	A respectable president. I used to freak out when I was. So a senator made the shoes at the beginning of his opponent's answer that she felt that it was not clear whether the stable tax as it has been prepared in legislation and laid up on the part of the government would have been enough to solve the problem. I have not thought that the government analysis would not even use religion and trust in the ranks of government officials. I thought this tax level, with a tax rate of 39%, was based on the belief that they had rowed before each turn and were absolutely certain that that the tax was the one that paid to solve the problem. But I'm not afraid to hear it out of my mouth. A senator felt that it was not certain that the stable tax as suggested in legislation would have been sufficient to solve the problem. This, in turn, goes further on to explain: Where is argumentative for this large difference in donations, since there are now some direct donations in the range of 3,300,400 billion, according to the stability process but would have become more than 800, according to the stability of the tax system? And if any. A senator is not convinced that the second option would have worked, so how can he be fully convinced that the first option will be sufficient, i.e. Depending on government declarations, a much lower amount of money, along with contributions, was being made, according to the government's declarations, many of the things that have been frequently numbered and available, such as funding through the Land Bank bonds, and also a delay in taking their money out of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u24	Hv. A senator is eager to discuss the presentation that the government has made last week on the UN Bank's assessment of the results of the broken - up agreements with its demands, discussing this with the legal issue that is presented here, and aims only to make it practical for the worn - out agreements to complete their emergency contracts, they choose to do so. Of course, they can still go on a stable tax if they choose to. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator digs a grave, so to speak, if he is going to try to claim that politicians can at some point assert and answer for what will happen in the future conclusively. It is not true what was said in the matter of the day. A senator, who told me that I had no conviction that the stable tax could have solved the situation. However, I said that there is a need to give a clear answer. I believe that there is no definitive answer to the consequences of which leads to the future. On the other hand, I say and say that as the case has been presented, after the Federal Bank assessment, after an expert assessment in economic management and other things, I'm fine with it, and I believe that the way that has been presented to address the fundamental problems facing the nation when foreign demands are going out here with their own crowns, the financial problems, that this way of dealing with him. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u25	Mr. President. We'll discuss a bill linked to one of the most important economic measures ever attacked in the Republic Time. I have to say, I don't know how much we're going to talk about this without getting to the top. Prime Minister or Supreme Minister. Secretary of finance to attend. [[Foreground on, he's coming.]] All right. It's very good to be a top dog. The prime minister has arrived because this is the only time we have the opportunity to discuss this matter at the highest level. Prime Minister. Hv. paritaprevir Andersen's sails gave a hell of a story to pay for the opinion she recommended earlier. She felt that there had been no material goal in achieving solidarity over the matter, and she expected that it could be settled with the approval of all members of the council. Then I'm going to tell you that I'm never going to accept a case that I don't fully understand, it's part of the bill that I still don't understand. [[Up front.]] They were not explained in the poll, and they are not explained in the background rather, and in this respect the suggestion that this is being suggested, it seems, in order to tailor the Icelandic right to some special needs of the crew, that a so - called deduction tax will be eliminated. What is the point? We have been in recent years making hundreds of double - tax contracts that involve the lack of a special need. So why are they doing this? There's only one group of people who make money on it, and there's those with their money in some taxes, tax-paradise like the Cayman Islands, or Tortites. Why should this journey be used to counter some contraband for the Tortolian team? I'm asking why. One authority: Why is it necessary to take action in the bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u26	A respectable president. In terms of the deduction tax and the decommissionment proposed here, it is well to be expected that there is already a law-enforcement from deduction tax. A certain Icelandic company has this discount. That release came about at the time because the bonds made out of e.g. Icelandic energy companies, Icelandic banks, and financial institutions are taken up business in the markets abroad. This market does not include the business of bond bonds that carry interest that has a tax on the future. Growth in this regard is not just talking about interest. It is also talking about growth that is formed in the form of a fallout when these bonds of debt go out and sell long afterward, after many years possible. This is a technical project, since the marketplace does not trust to handle such tax obligations far into the future. In the case of the broilers, they are about to issue a bill to cut down the demands of demands. These bonds will not necessarily carry interest, not direct interest, in most cases, but, in the future, these growths will be possible in business. For such letters to be taken and to become real value to the demands, they must be commercialized in these marketplaces, and they will only be clearly indicated that they do not have tax in the future. So it's a technical point. However, it is worth considering that the taxpayers in Iceland will still carry it, but most of these demands still carry unlimited tax restrictions in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u27	Mr. President. Hv. A senator has the best members of the council here, but she was unable to explain this matter in an acceptable way. A technical solution, sire, so that's all I'm saying. Is it that way? The prime minister and his government view it as their special role to right the need for demands of an Icelandic ruler? That's what I'm talking about. A senator was saying here earlier. What the hell do I care about the needs of the demands? This was agreed between the Icelandic government and its requirements. Secretary of finance called a living conversation. So, then, shall we, the Allied Council of the Icelanders, come together and change what was previously agreed to do because of the demands made by the demands? I need more reason to raise my hand with this than I got. I'll never accept this except what. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Sigurjónánsson, following the events of the case, explained to me why I, an Icelandic senator, should thus go down to his knees to make an even greater profit for the demands. It shall never be, unless the logic rests on the table. While I'm on this journey, why should I agree that the demands of the crew will be given an even greater chance of taking advantage of the bypass, the highest tax rate. By granting the Prime Minister 450 billion by postponing them to March 15th? [[Up front.]] [["Icezave."]] Why should the Icelandic Council meet to make such decisions in order to make even greater discounts than was already done? [[Up front.]] I find it very difficult to see the logic in this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u28	Icezave.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u29	The President hopes to do it. A senator noticed that a president was praying. Senators, do not use the public speaker's chair.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u30	A respectable president. It is proper to think that this has not been agreed with the demands for anything, that governments have not agreed with the demands of me. There's also been a lot of economic and business committees that haven't done it, either, in order to maintain it. It should be noted, however, that the will of the lawgiver offers a realistic way to complete his affairs with a contract that must, of course, be realistic. It was approved in the last summer to offer these two advantages, the stability taxes, or the problems of emergency contracts. I have not heard of it in this council hall that any senator would or would have liked, or would still want, and consider it better to pay the stable taxes, test them for judicial events, and be in the next few years. I haven't heard it say so in this council hall. It would be interesting to get it out if some senator believes that there is a better way than the way that is now going to be gone. It should be said, and I reiterate it as to the deduction tax that no income of tax is even expected as a financial bill or as a government financial bill. So it is not some kind of loss of income if you want to call it that, that is not the case. It is only to make it realistic that these matters will be concluded with the forced agreements between their crews, so that they will see that there is some advantage beyond paying the stable taxes to go on the short way. That's what it's all about. It's as simple as that. Remuneration of deduction taxes is not expected from the bonds as these in the government's budget and has never been made.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u31	Mr. President. I'm here recommending a panel of members from the 1st smaller part of the Economic and Business Committee, which is now only the one who is signing that opinion. First, I would like to state that the work on the Committee has been excellent, as shown in the case of the member of the committee's opinion of the greater part, and there has been an effort to delve into the complex conditions involved and appear in this bill. I agree with what. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson that it's very important. Congressmen understand what is behind it. I'm just gonna pick up the wire where it's at. paritaprevir Andersen's sails released him here before me, wondering if any senators thought the stable tax was a better way to go than the stability process. This was made very clear during springtime when we discussed both these issues, the stability tax, and the stability proposals. Both of these routes were agreed here, and this was to be seen in the committee's list of smaller sections under which the article was written. Councilmen J. Sigfússon and Ani Páll Árnason saw a certain defect in the course of stability that was not appropriate in the way of tax stability. There were also certain advantages, and above that, their committees were doing well, but the benefits of taxation are, of course, primarily that it is a very transparent way. It's very simple. It's very clean. It also said why. Senators who participated in spring discussions, as I reviewed this discussion, all agreed that there was a clear way to understand. True, some have been concerned about whether a stable tax would pass the law, but I would also like to say that on my short, happy life. I haven't heard anyone say that there's a reason to question the legitimate stability of the tax. It has been observed among certain members of the committee that they see no special facet of doubting the legal nature of the case in view of the future. Therefore, I would like to state, I also do so in my committee study, and point out that in the case of the stability of the tax pathway, representing our council, the left movement, the left-green supply, was a committee party with the greater part. It was short on our part without warning, and it's a very transparent way, and it's clean and it doesn't leave any complications, if we can say so. In my panel of economic and business committees, which I quoted earlier, these various advantages and defects were torn. Of course, there have been some advantages of forced contracts, i.e. Things are resolved on the basis of agreements and payments for stability which certain more things are desired. A discussion on this route has shown that there is a good way to offer an alternative to the stable tax. That's how we discussed it here, that it would give the demands two ways to get out of the seas. However, it was also stated that the main problem of the forced agreements was uncertain, both in terms of the final financial outcomes of the state, the position, whether the stability proposals were sufficient to neutralise the property in order to achieve the objective of the procedure. And what are your goals? Yes, it was discussed here this spring and again. I have no doubt that our aim is to raise our seas without causing them to impair the public's standard of living. Of course, that is our goal and should be our whole goal. That must be our primary objective, and it is what we members of Congress should evaluate now as we consider these matters. True, we are here primarily a bill that is responsible for the stability of the proposals, but we naturally relate it to what has now been presented by the government. It's important for everyone to drive. Congress officials try to put themselves in the best of presentation, for I must acknowledge with urgency. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Accuracy that it is not necessarily set up as transparent as it would have been. Maybe it can't be presented in a transparent way, I don't know, but there's a doubt that it's not quite easy to interpret the presentations that the government put on this table last week. It was also for us on the part of the government that the stability project would be based on stability conditions that would be indiscriminate - indiscriminate - and that they would have to meet the same conditions as a stable tax. There seems to be a distinct difference now. It's not the same way, it's quite in the way. It is not possible to set exactly the same meter when talking about the stabilisation tax and the stabilising process on the other hand, but what is normal to ask about, and that is one of the statements in my committee, is that in this brain package the banks are expected to make their worth. Apparently, there has not been an independent way of assessing the value of banks. The value of banks is not the same in public discussion. The banks, on the other hand, are put on names in the presentation. Some of these points are taken into consideration. I comment on the presentation of these contributions, mainly under the 856, which is practical in over the scope of the previously presented problem of 815 billion, that when we get into the behind it, it is also the case. recent surgery, e.g. The trade between the new and old Lands Bank. It is also the actual property of the State, i.e. The loans that state funds lent to the new banks, which were always meant to be paid back, are taken into this veil. There is the recovery of property, which is very difficult to evaluate, and we that have this role. In fact, members of Congress do not overlook all the demands involved. We have received various examples of the requirements for entering a special holding society under the Seals Bank. However, there is also the possibility that certain risks will be put on how these assets will come about. They can do well or not. Of course, it's part of the problem in this way that we don't look at a simple cent we can say exactly how to arrive at a certain time, but we take this particular risk here and we look into the future, we're going to shoot the matter into the future, maybe for good, but maybe not, and that makes me feel bad. In my catechism, I criticize that there has been very little consultation on the outworking of this matter. It took a lot of effort to do so. The Economic and Business Committee is to directly arrange for a representative of the Ministry of Economics and the Office's representatives to a meeting to review the procedure on the case. That's not because of what happened. The head of the Committee, Frosti Sigurjónsson, did not immediately respond to a request, but it has taken time to obtain information from the partners involved in the procedure, i.e. The Department of Financial Affairs and the Secret Bank. The committee provided specific requests for information, for example, in order to better appreciate the balance of payment into the future. Different forms of these actions were requested in relation to different fields of the future. I have to say, I would have chosen to have much more consultation on these matters, either with an economic and business committee, or with the Commission on emissions of a previously active force, has never been decommissioned. It was then called here last week, in effect, just to tell us that the case would start the next day. Therefore, it is not possible to talk about consultation, nor can you talk about information that might be used to make members of the council a success. Then you will respond and offer a presentation on the day of the newspaper meeting. This is because there are numbers that have been set aside for us senators to dive in and try to understand. It is also available, and has been observed by representatives of the Invenge group who have been present on this issue, that these numbers are set out, without the particular easyness of how they are composed and what the real stability proposals are. The figures there rocked down to and from the day the donations were presented, whether they were 370, or up to 590 billion, which now appears to be 3,70 billion, and then other measures are on top of it. Why do I pull this out? Yes, Mr President, because it is important that we here understand the composition of this and be sure that the situation will be resolved in the best way for a country and a nation, that we are confident that we are not threatening the general standard of life, that we are certain that this is sufficient. It is not enough for us that the Councilman has given away his report, which was introduced to us on the same day that the case was presented at a press conference, but that we understand what this report involves. I'd also like to say that part of the problem is that, as mentioned in the bill, significant changes are being made. It's not long since we walked away, and we agreed on the stability tax and the stability proposals. In the short time since then, it has evidently been the assessment of those who have had that live conversation, the highest. The secretary of finance called it, requiring that these laws have been needed, so here we first receive a bill with significant changes in the law, and then it has also occurred during the day of the work of the Committee. In fact, the changes made by most of the Committee are now very extensive. They do not receive a normal three - part discussion, but they are actually given a very short discussion, the big changes made in the bill between discussions. There are also things related to the case, not to this bill, but to the case as a whole. Since its introduction in June, there have been some changes in the language. For example, I mention that the chronological order of the matter has not changed. In the fall, invitations were spoken of. It was then said that there would also be a fall - off plan or plan for delinquency. Now, however, there is evidence that there is no signal until after the New Year's. There is no new plan for delinquency in the public, but it has been said to be soon after this, so the chronological order is not the one we discussed in spring. I'd also like to mention that there's not a plan for the public either, I specifically mention the public, but I'd also like to mention the pension fund, because we have no vision of how exactly the pension funds should be able to meet their investment needs with the money they're down here in the seas and when we're going to see some real plan that's going to work out. Also, because the deduction tax was called I don't think it's good to make these changes under pressure to get fixed agreements with the demanding workers - and these changes were certainly discussed at the Committee - since these are being falling from fiscal regulations, expecting to demand the big financial services we know and be called Eurocles, Clearstream. Their demand is to accept changes in Icelandic tax laws to be handled, so that they can be paid and sold, expected to be demanding. In view of the fact that the governor made some comments, I find that difficult. True, it is true what happened by the wind. The case of a senator and an experienced historian is that there are some factors that weigh, such as bifolding agreements and other agreements. But these are the changes that we make in a much time pressure like other factors related to this matter. There are certain princely changes that do so, in view of the little consultation that has been discussed, that it has been in chapters such as squeezing tears out of stone, squeezing out information about what is behind the numbers and corneas that were presented to the public during the past week. It's been hard to get real information, real information, they're gradually picking up in the discussion. Then I must say here that, of course, these contracts must be primarily responsible for the government, and I would have thought better that we had more cross-cutting. I've talked about it in this room many times before, so I think it'll be best if we try to work this big business together. I would have chosen to have been done that way in this case. I'm sorry to see how the case has been handled, because it's a very important matter of interest to the public. As far as I'm concerned, we would have been able to sit at the same level, all of us had the same information as it was provided for, the site of trust, which was the Commission on Release. It would have been easy to use a committee, and no one was supposed to be a lesser person. I don't think this is a good job. I'm not gonna have this much further. I'd like to say first and foremost that what's going on here is, of course, this bill. I make specific comments on that, especially the deduction tax. The changes have been made, and a greater proportion of the Committee have suggested some changes that are improving on a number of technical issues. But the big thing is that this case is set out to be in the best interests of needy contracts that have already been signed by the highest power. Secretary of finance. I feel that this has happened without much discussion in a group of members, as well as without discussions with the general public in the country. His interests are discussed here. That's what my head review is about in this committee party. I believe a lot of things came true that came out in the opinion of the object. We're sure there's no doubt about it. There is, of course, the transparency. That's worry, I think.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u32	Mr. President. I'd like to ask you why. Council member: Is it part of the council to dress the Icelandic right to the special demands of the demands, as it were? paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason called here an ancient vulture fund, e.g. Is it about putting off this deduction tax? And also regarding giving them increased time in order to be able to take the most excellent form of discount. Does it seem that the prime minister had a prelude to create and care for what they once called the vulture fund, making the greatest tax charge ever heard of in Europe's history, 450 billion for the vulture Fund? Is it our responsibility for the 450 billion to come together in order to give them an even greater chance of taking advantage of it and to give them an even greater tax discount? I especially want to ask you why. A senator's opinion of the deduction tax. [[The president calls.]] Is it our job to be in some way protecting this Tortolian team who has hidden her money away from the US tax returns in tax paradises, such as the one I mentioned? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u33	Mr. President. It would be interesting to consider the present agreement, not only from what the Icelandic state receives, but also from the way its demands come into play. It would be interesting to look at the rectangle on the corneas that we could see and good if we had had had had time to do so because of that. A senator here mentions their position. As for the deduction tax, I realized that I fully understood what was being done here; there are requests from international labour agencies, they say that they don't want to handle the letters unless they're excluded from this tax. And here we are being suggested to meet the requirements for the slaving companies. I'm very skeptical about that. I don't think it's easy to do this first, under time pressure, and secondly, that we're developing a special tax system on these companies without fully understanding which other options are available in those areas. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u34	Mr. President. Then they just can't handle anything with their letters. It's not our business for Icelanders. We made a deal, and the bill we're discussing here is confirmation that the government went along the way of negotiation. That led to a conclusion. She was taken. There were different ways of agreeing with that. But then nothing means coming back and saying, "No, we want more. The Icelandic Parliament has to say, "This place and no more." I'll take it this way. The senator will agree with me on this matter at the vote, for at least After the discussion that has been conducted today, I'm not going to pay them part of my vote. I also have to say that I don't think it's our job to give demands longer time to take advantage of this 450 billion tax rate, especially after the important information. A senator's review of the Economic and Business Committee's work, for the most remarkable thing she said in her speech was that many came and said there was no reason to question the legitimate stability of the tax. [[The president calls.]] Then I ask: If he's all right and his rights are not questioned, why don't we take advantage of a way that doesn't put any risks to the Icelandic state? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u35	Mr. President. I'm saying that I'm not legal, but I've heard a number of lawyers say that there's no reason to doubt specifically the legitimate stability of the tax, and now it's so that the state of the world has very rich sources to taxation. We both have the story in it. We have a number of judicial cases that have fallen in this way, so there is no particular reason to question the legality of the tax. I acted accordingly, following the committee's discussion that there were some who pointed out that there was no reason to doubt this. But as I went over the years, these are different ways, and they have different advantages and flaws. However, I have not had any reason to question the legality of the tax. However, it may be that some had tested it in court, perhaps not likely. But the odds are too great for me to think it would have been good for the Icelandic state.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u36	A respectable president. I'm going to go ahead and spin the same thread. In this regard, foreign demands are being released, with some 400 billion dollars of domestic currency in some years, especially with the evidence that it will destroy legal uncertainty. A senator, though, reveals that the committee was not considered to be prominent. I would like to ask, then, if it is also not so that the law on the stability tax has been set up to allow the legal uncertainty to be destroyed very quickly, that there is a quick treatment in the courts, that it is only possible to promote such cases before the Icelandic courts and this is Icelandic legal history and Icelandic courts will have the last words in the case, and whether the shortest time it takes to decide on the matter is not a reason to have at least one. question whether there is any reason to give such a great discount to foreign authorities, allowing them so quickly before others from the seas. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u37	Mr. President. That's right, that's the end of the pot. However, this spring discussion also showed that the thought behind two selective means was that it actually strengthened the stable tax. Of course, it would be up to the government and the Council Bank to determine whether the contributions met the stability criteria mentioned earlier should be irreversible, i.e. These contributions would meet the requirements and thus be the same. Having a selective route also strengthened the legal arrangement around the tax. What we now see, however, is that the ball is at the government's disposal to determine whether these contributions really meet enough governmental requirements. I'm putting it here that I don't question the legitimate taxation pathway but I think it's hard to evaluate it from the evidence that has been submitted to the council whether the way works. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u38	A respectable president. Hv. A senator is telling us that there is little legal uncertainty that we can complete the case with a significantly better result for Iceland if we take the stable tax and that a quick way is loyalty, which should not take much longer than 18 months of patience. Then I ask what the senator says about the same condition. Hv. In his speech, a senator said that part of the problem was being delayed. I agree with the senator. Does this not mean that stability is not the same as the stable tax, since part of the problem will not be solved by a stable tax but will be suspended precisely? Was it not another requirement to lay on the stable tax, since there was an equal share in emissions? Is it any such thing that foreign demands are the first to get out, but this is where the public, business and pension funds need to wait in doubt?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u39	Mr. President. That's exactly what I did, that's what I'm talking about here, i.e. On the one hand, the time line. We don't have a plan for delinquency in the public. We do not have a plan for how pension funds are to be used with their possessions, and it is a large, growing need for investments. We haven't really seen anything on the cards in this regard. Then for the rest as a dog. The senator mentioned, postponing the problem to the future, is, of course, very large questions on the way. How, for example, should a bank be handled that is intended to become part of this contribution? We hear immediate contrasting voices about what is right in doing so. For example, some people suggest that Iceland's banks will be sold the first, but of course we wondered who will be waiting to buy it and how to do that bank sale. However, a study agreed in Congress has not yet been conducted on the privatization of banks from the turn of the century. [[The president calls.]] There are also big questions about the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u40	A respectable president. It's a great thing to listen to the language of the chairman of the left green. A lot of talk here is that there was a lack of understanding and that there was little consultation with government opposition, etc. In fact, it is said that the banks were not made independent. I'll show it all to my father's house. We know exactly what it was like here already. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, then minister of finance, gave the banks overnight. This is a case that's being blown off. This is where the government comes in. A senator took him into the banks, so to speak. This operation is primarily going on to protect the public standard of life in the country, which I believe has not been done during the last term. I'm gonna ask the senator if she'd like to go over it here with the Order of Congress on how to handle the Lands Bank so-called in these contracts up to 230 billion, and she's going to give the bill to 92 billion, which was the dirtyx of the former government. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This was part of the Icesave convention. How did it get done in these contracts?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u41	Mr. President. I don't really know how to answer that. Is that not a perfectly normal requirement? This was the last term of the European Commission's European Commission on Emissions. There was a pack of whales. paritaprevir Agent Vigdís Hauksdóttir. This committee met and tried to keep her informed. The officers of the classes were called to the meeting of this committee. I called for this committee to be activated and performed. I don't understand why. A senator responds by starting to talk about what she is always at the top of, which is Icesave. I have to pray. I'm not even asking her to move forward to the future, but I'm asking her to move over today and explain to me if she had considered it undesirable to bring together a meeting committee for release. Would she have thought it was bad that we received more information? Is she against it? I'm calling for what? A senator will answer for that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u42	A respectable president. It's good to review this because it's talking about having a consultation with the government. They all know what was done with a committee that could not be trusted because there was a lack of information to the claimors as soon as that committee was completed during this period. Hence, only this matter had to be removed from the government, so it is said. I don't recall many meetings being held during the last term of committees on execution. It really didn't happen in those cases during the last term. I'm going to tell you how the gift - hungry man has been taken to the Lands Bank, which at his time was 300 billion, Icesave debt, which the previous government actually took over over on the shoulders of the Americans, despite the fact that we had a full victory for the EFTA Court. Today, only 150 billion are left behind because paying off debts has been so successful. This bill is now being converted to a letter with normal marketing funding. [[The president calls.]] It wasn't like that in the last term. There were so strange conditions in the letter that there was no way for the bank to process it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u43	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for being very honest. In other words, she did not want the government to have access to a consultation committee on emissions. She didn't want any more information. She referred to a leak that is not really traceable, but why. A senator has observed various things here in this torture, which is totally illogical. I like the table. I know her members don't necessarily agree with her on this. Here's the attitude. For a senator. It protests against transnational cooperation on important matters that concern the public and then just stay in the past, as it were. A senator has chosen to do all this ideal period, which is an old story and new that it is often easier to stay in the past than to face today's demands.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u44	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this speech. I just want to come on to what she mentioned earlier about what. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir because he was spoken of staying in the past. If we looked at January 1, 2016, it would have been just the first day the payments were supposed to be held in the foreign currency of the Icesave debt, it would have been approved here by the first government. Let us keep that in order. What I want to come in here is a word. A senator made his own, not cutting the public's standard of living, that it was the key. That is exactly the key to the action that this government has introduced through its stable taxation and these two means, not to impair the public's standard of living. It was number one, two and three. Then I'd like to ask. A senator was referred to as the banks here earlier that Iceland's bank was about to land in the hands of a government fund: was there some payment analysis at the time when the demands of this bank were being delivered? [[The president calls.]] There was a plan, as is now being planned, and an examination of how this would affect the public's standard of living, how it would affect the payment of the population, etc.? [[The president calls.]] It is very important in this discussion that this will not affect the public's standard of living and that is what this government is focusing on. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u45	Mr. President. Hv. Ásmundur Also Daðason in a familiar place, Icesave, it's obviously hard to get out if you're once inside that cage. As noted, most of this Icesave debt has been paid by the bank's deposit so that we would probably be at that site as we are today. In terms of payment analysis, it was requested, including A financial and business committee that would make it happen. It is difficult to develop a time - it was also observed in the companies that discussed with them, with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Federal Bank - because various external factors can have a major impact on the balance of payment. What I would have wanted to see is actually more scenes drawn up as we examine outside situations. Business income can be a great deal of talk about how the balance of payment draws itself up into the future. It's been tried. This is also because it was called after within the committee. [[The president calls.]] I think it would have been better if the Commission or the Economic and Business Committee had been better informed of the matter, because then it would be with much clearer evidence in its hands right now. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u46	A respectable president. Me and what. A senator certainly agrees that it is important to be kept in line and not to interfere with the public's standard of living. We are now completing the final phase of the journey that was started after the collapse. First, the law of rescue ensured that we could rebuild the banking system and keep it outside. Second, we were fighting the very last term that debt would be used nationally in the way the Icesave treaties expected. Third, the broken - up section of the fallen banks is now being renovated. Then it is important to be careful that the payment of a government fund so that the public's standard of living will not be affected in any way. As soon as I'm happy to go. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir agrees not to impair the common people's standard of living, I have to say, of course, that I understand this tremendous irritability at the government stand, perhaps not so well. A senator spends more time with him. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Aggressor and others, over the fact that the government is working on subsidies here, defends stability, and ensures the future of the public's standard of living. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We can rejoice and be happy that we will achieve it here today if we accept this bill. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u47	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason spent long enough time with me in a company to know that I'm not conscious. I just want us to talk about these issues. I endeavored to do so in my speech, and I would have wanted to respond. [[Up front.]] With that. A senator chooses to stay in the past let me remind myself that the reason why we see some success in this case is that the swollen ones were placed under the water. Let's go back to that, okay? Senator? Should we recall that members of the Independence Party were directly fighting against it and that they were being hard pressed by bringing the swelling under the sea, enabling us now to discuss these matters? Hv. Prosecutors at the time did not trust to support the case, for they were not willing to participate in any common solution. [[The point is, I agree.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u48	This good solution that's here...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u49	It would be nice to know if you'd like to know. Today, members of Parliament trust to support this, recognizing that failing to support it was a mistake. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to hear it if you must stay in the past, which I have no particular interest in. [[Open the door, hear, hear!]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u50	President. I recommend my speciality or my opinion of 2 less share in the Economic and Business Committee on bill to legalize the change of income tax laws that we now discuss. As noted in the case of an executive of the majority of the Committee, there are very technical changes in income taxes. They are specifically designed to make the emergency contracts they need if they are not going to land, if I may say so, a stable tax of 39% on all property of the farms, and will fall upon companies if they have not submitted legal contracts by December 31. It is, a respectable president, the law of the country is being specifically developed so that the companies go to these forced contracts, which is the result of the highest levels. Secretary of finance has called a living conversation between the government, the Secret Bank and the crew, which the rest of us usually call having in agreements. A respectable president. I will not discuss in particular the technical aspects of the adjustment proposed by the greater part. I'm going to talk about this whole thing because it's about, as we've seen before, the only major operation in the economy that has been under attack here. To make it possible, these technical adjustments must be made. But I'm going to talk about the operation myself. A respectable president. So, of course, if I'm next to get rid of the currency capital, there's no doubt about it. Of course, everyone must be happy, but I'd like to remind you that a major stage in this process and that the basis for this payment was possible was the proposed government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir for a change in currency law when the money money was taken under the head of the currency. As noted earlier, very often during this spring discussion, the Independence Party actually fought against that proposal, and the candidates were sitting by. In a vote on the bill, the chairman of the Independence Party, which is now the highest. Secretary of finance, by permission of the President: It is completely unfaithful when the same government sends out in a few days the message that the currency is ruined and that the head is tightening so that we will soon be able to stop it. It was necessary, a respectable president, to harden his head, to lock the banks in currency capitals here, and this was the basis for this operation. I'd also like to reiterate it as the current ultimate. At that time, the minister of finance said that the currency was ruined. The currency is still ruined, a respectable president, and that is why we, the public in this country, are so unsure of when we get out of currency capitals. The currency is too small, it is an ark crown, and unfortunately it is most likely to remain in the oceans for a while. There is at least nothing in the procedures presented here that provides guidance on the timing of the pension fund, Icelandic company and Icelandic public getting out of these seas. As I told you before, the other way in which the demands are against paying 39% taxes on all property is the forced agreement. It's a very transparent way, but this way here is not transparent. Apparently, I'm going to say that it seems -- which is being given about 400, 450 billion off on the stable tax that they said was supposed to be the same. Therefore, we must complain about how this presentation has been conducted. The introductions we have received appear to be an attempt to raise as much as possible what comes out of the stability process. It's so omnipotent and in a way that you can be proved to say the most suspicious, respectable president of the United States. That's what's so bad about this case. Take, for example, Iceland Bank. It's transferred to a registered price of 180 billion. Those who know say that it is very unlikely to think that banks can be sold on a record these days. There are also 60 billion already paid for a bank tax. I can't understand it any other way, so it's because if those who have broken up are in need of contracts, there's no chance that they'll ever sue because they've been paid. There is always room for the amount of cash that comes in in the fixed contracts. What for, Mr. Honorable President? To try to make the discount of the stable tax as the lowest. A respectable president. I'd like to say that I'm not against making a deal, and I understand that there's a way of making a deal. We did so during the last term, and we should recall that in Icesave 2, a business policy was completely inhibited here, as if we were almost provincial. It has been calculated that this would have cost us from about 30 to 55 billion. But what does business advice say? Business advice says that the currency head costs us 80 billion a year. If Icesave 2 had become reality, we would have been released two or three years earlier or it would have come out sooner. I'm saying this because I don't object to people making a deal, and I understand it very well because it's safer to stand firm than not being in the air. But then, a respectable president, must say so, say they go along the way because it's safer for all of us. It's just a good thing. But do not offer to see that these are equally valid ways. That's what's so annoying, a respectable president, I'm sorry. I want to reiterate that men have said there's an equality in how we all get out of currency capitals. I understand it well, and I don't think it's unusual that the seas are now lopped off the reefs. They pay for it, as the bank manager has mentioned. It is not unnatural, but it must follow up on how Icelandic society, commercial life, the Icelandic public get out of their oceans. It's completely off-limit, respectable President, that in these programmes, I believe, the pension fund can take out 10 billion a year in the next few years. It all knows, it knows anyone who has watched such things, that over the next few years, 10 billion are coins of small value, or a need to raise money, and have to come out of the country in order to do what they have to do. A respectable president. As we have discussed, it was in the opposite direction. paritaprevir Páll the son of Árnason is here, indefence, to mention him, who has warned of this way. They say half are left behind, and the problem is not solved at all. I feel bad that no one could have driven what they say, it would have made me much calmer with all this if the men responsible for all of this had just convinced me that their arguments in Inveffence did not hold, if they had convinced me that they were wrong. It hasn't been done, and it makes me feel bad, a respectable president. The reason why I give this special party that is here is primarily general criticism of the case rather than comment on individual legal issues. I want to give in to speculation, and I'm there on a boat with my party brother, boy. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson, about the change in the deduction tax. I have not been able to explain why it is necessary and why it must be done in this haste. One example is that when Land induction was borrowed some years ago, this is needed because of the bonds given by Landsactivation, I don't understand how it is comparable to those demands we don't know who or where they are. It is clear that when there are demands in countries where all trades are on European or U.S. tables, there are two tax contracts, and the taxes will be paid. There's also some veil and mystery over here that I don't like. It's first and last that, why isn't it all submitted? The presentation of the stability process and what it's like, why don't you just explain it carefully? Why were we not allowed to observe the living conversation with the demanding workers? This could have been done on the council, that could have been done in the consultation group referred to here. All of this arouses suspicion, and it's too bad, you respectable president, because it's certainly a very urgent matter. I hope it will be a good thing for the nation to do this, I certainly hope so. But it should have been in such a way that we would not have to be suspicious. That's my last word.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u51	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Bjarnadóttir's speech was chosen. I like the same tone in the speech as with the dog. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. There's a lot of suspicion around here. This is well illustrated in the speech of the senator and in the various questions that are raised. Here, according to the viewpoints of a member of the Invenge group, the senator believes that the evidence is not presented. They're long gone and it's been explained, and I don't have time to do it here in a one-minute answer. It should also be noted that we are now making a great deal of talk about giving up our legal rights. Not at all, for both parties fall from court, both the State and the demands. Therefore, members of the government opposition are being deceived by outright deception. I would like to ask the senator what she is referring to here on page 6 of the committee's article. 2: Although it is more of a writer's, rather than a real solution, it is counted as earnings of credit from the lBI's terms.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u52	A respectable president. I'm just gonna answer that question. I didn't understand her properly because I wasn't asking for anything from Invenge, I was saying that there had not been any argument that refuted what the Invenges have said, now it's just what I'm saying. I don't like it. What I mean by this is that nothing happens with this bank account except that it can be lost. There's nothing certain that the Lands Bank will take advantage of this. It's not a dollar that comes in for any of this. That's what I'm saying. It takes all kinds of money and is put in a pot, and you have to lie two or three hours over the presentation provided to try to understand it because everything is so omnipotent. [[The president calls.]] I'm complaining about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u53	A respectable president. The presentation may vary, but the convention team was given a presentation, and it was very clear and understandable how this route is being carried out. Senators must have that with themselves if they do not understand the contents of this matter. It's completely incomprehensible to me that members of the council don't understand this matter. Consider, for example, what's going on with the Lands Bank, which was taken from the former government and was part of Icesave-bixena. First, it has been paid 150 billion, and in this legal capacity it is being delivered as a letter of normal marketing funding; hence, it is no longer conditions conditioned by a respected president. Let us see that the former government compromised its population by moving this huge bond of debt into the Bank of Lands. It was the first job of a new government to renegotiate that bond. The law of the market is now being delivered a bond. [[The president calls.]] I hope that this dot, a respectable president, has a clear explanation for the respectable members of Congress. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u54	A respectable president. That was very clear. I knew it. What I'm complaining about is that these 150 billion are incorporated into some basement about what's coming into stability. That's what I don't understand, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u55	A respectable president. Because Icesave was present, I think it is right for me to decide that there is a difference between equalizing, Icesave, or dealing with demands now. In Icesave it was that there were legal requirements for the United States, lawless requirements, which were no reason to negotiate anything. However, here is an evil charm, a law of the demands of the crew, a legal requirement that we may be able to provide for them, the requirements they have in these fragments, the requirements for Icelandic property, the requirements for foreign property in Iceland. These are all legal requirements. It is good for humans to keep this in mind and be required not only when it comes to the conditions for stable taxes but also when it comes to contracts. Then I would like to point out the fact that treaties are not being negotiated with these demands. The state has nothing to do with these contracts. Rather, it is a solemn agreement between the demands. They haven't made a deal yet. I'd like to ask the author 2nd memory of the opinion: Did the producer first violate this matter of changing the law, and secondly, against the way in which it is supposed to be handled? [[The president calls.]] In other words, does an authority want to see that there will be a taxation route and that the tax will be broken in a legal way? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u56	A respectable president. I apologize to the President and Congress if I have been so vague in my case that it has not been shown that I am just celebrating that some sort of solution is getting out of the case. I am complaining, however, that the matter has not been made clearly, so I am suspicious. I'm sorry. Because the whole matter could have been explained that way, explaining it so that the woman would not have to be suspicious. That's what I'm complaining about. I'll be happy if there's a way to solve it. A respectable president. For the third time, I say, how I'm done makes me suspicious.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u57	A respectable president. I don't know how to understand the answer, but I understand why. A senator is suspicious, and she is free to be. I don't know if I should understand it that way. paritaprevir Valgerður Bjarnadóttir supports the issue under consideration, while demanding legal action is backed up by forced agreements. That's just what I wanted to get out of it. Or whether. paritaprevir Well, Valgerður Bjarnadóttir might be the same, and I thought it was a matter of opinion. An authority on the 1st, a memory of the opinion that the tax was a more natural way, referred to it as something more beneficial. If so, it would be good to know if so. paritaprevir Valgerður Bjarnadóttir would agree and how she felt it was more beneficial.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u58	A respectable president. I have, like, a whisk. A senator may have noticed, first and last considered the matter. I understand that the law on income tax needs to be changed for what it says here, that there is a good way to deal with it. I'm not dumber than that, more distinguished President, that I know there are contracts between the demands. However, laws are being changed, they are being sullied by the law so that they choose to go that way. I also explained in my history that I have a great grasp of the fact that people prefer making a deal rather than going on the court route. I understand that very much. But I guess I can still say my opinion that I don't think the circumstances and the painting around this whole thing are good enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u59	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for her opinions and questions on the subject. In the big movie and in the history of a why. A senator, I think, said that it was not clear when the public would get out of the water, but it would certainly be paying a street to get out of the seas - and leave a lot of property to make that possible - but when the common people came out of the seas, they would have to suffer no discount. I think it came out and I want to know if what's wrong. A senator does not remember that at a meeting of the Swedish bank, a bank manager was also asked this question: When will the public be involved? It's a question of whether she will answer. I remember that it was in 2016, so you could start decommissioning with companies and the public, if you want to follow through. I wanted to ask her if she would slander me so that it was this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u60	A respectable president. I remember that answer from the bank manager. He was quick to answer, I remember that too. What I'm complaining about is why it doesn't have to do with this whole thing. Why is it not relevant for the public to escape from the oceans in the fall of 2016? That's what I'm complaining about. That's not the plan here. You're absolutely right about the Chairman of what he is. The Economic and Business Committee has answered this, but I'm complaining that we need to know who was sitting at this committee meeting. Why is this not part of the evidence?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u61	A respectable president. Just to make it perfectly clear, it's not in 172. It's not about these changes, it's dealing with delinquency or evaporation from oceans, it's a matter of currency. We certainly got an introduction from the Secretary of Economic and Economic Affairs and Secret Bank on the Federal Bank decision. It was a big presentation with many illustrations, 25 pages, including with so - called analystic analysis, where we could ask these factors and see in our hand that the situation would be quite good, even if this route would be gone. I just wanted to ask about the numbers that came out of a committee's list. Senator. On the basis of the Commission's opinion, it stated that the government strongly held that by both means, the stability curve, and the discountal point, 450 billion off the stable tax will be given and, therefore, will be equally valid. How do you figure? A senator out to $450 billion? I can't get it up to more than 250 billion, even if I try my best.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u62	What I've been saying is that men are here to hide the discount given. They are hiding it with 60 billion on bank taxes, with 150 billion or with what it is about the bank account. That's what I'm saying. [[Up front.]] If we just take raw numbers, then what? A senator telling me to stay calm?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u63	No, no, I was saying... 250...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u64	Is the senator asking me to stay calm? [[Up front.]] It's now, look, it's a famous female chromosome heartbeat. I thought the president should hit the bell only when they say, "Don't worry! Out in the hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u65	I never said that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u67	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir for the speech earlier. I want to say one thing at the outset before I come to the question, "I am glad that I hear the sound of the tone of my voice. " A senator, that she celebrates our success here by going this way. The two ways in which both were selected were to ensure one thing, the protection of the public's standard of living. By doing this, we are able to defend the public's standard of living. I feel that there is more irritation in the setting of the matter, as it did in my case. A senator, but the content of the matter itself. What a joy to see that the content of the matter is in order! But I would like to ask. A member of Parliament: Now it appeared in opposition to the fall of 2016 that the public would escape from currency capitals, it has been observed in the implementation of the Commission. Is it not a crisis for the United Nations, as a political party that always spoke of subsidizing currency lords unless we walk in the European Union and adopt Euro, that we are now working to lift the currency lords? [[The president calls.]] I can't remember how many talks I've heard and many meetings and a number of advertisements that say this. [[It's the front call of the Senate Hall.]] [[The president calls.]] So I'd like to ask that question here last year's answer. Then I have another question in my second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u68	A respectable president. I might like to ask a president to give me an extra minute to ask him why. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson is sorry. I didn't hear what he said. I just want it to be clear. How about that? paritaprevir He's right about what's happened to Einar Daðason. I'm pissed off about the frame. [[Up front.]] But I'm glad, as I said in my speech, if we can get out of those currency heads. Of course I must celebrate it like Ásmundur Einar Daðason. I will not let political divisions take it away from me. I'm glad you're here. But I am highly critical of all the details of this matter. When the bank manager answers a verbal question to a committee, I don't think it's a plan to lift the head of a pension fund, Icelandic company and Icelandic public. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u69	A respectable president. I'm glad to hear it. paritaprevir Valgerður Bjarnadóttir should be glad that we are doing this to protect our standard of living by the way these matters are being worked out. I think he's incredibly important, that final subject that we're taking care of here. First, it was the law of rescue, and those who came to put it on, since we were able to take the banks outside. Then it was the struggle during our last terms against the national use of debt that we were not required to deal with. It is now overreached by the swellings of these fallen wastelands. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] - Honorable President. Then there is a resolution on the broken population of these fallen financial institutions. [[Up front.]] - Honorable President. Hv. paritaprevir The Árni Páll Árnason is here taking time from the speaker who is giving a talk. Then that's what I'm going to come on. This irritability that I sense here at the government stand for the rest of my life and other factors is understandable because we are able to subsidize currency capitals and work up the broken banks and defend the public's standard of living. [[The president calls.]] That is what makes us happy. [[The president calls.]] I'm very happy that you did. paritaprevir Valgerður Bjarnadóttir would agree with me on that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u70	A respectable president. It is always satisfying when people agree on some things. We certainly agree that it is a pleasure if we are able to lift the seas. This is a step like that. But like I say again -- and why. A senator can call it irritability or anything - would have been so much better for all of us in this hall if all of this had been on the table. Because of what? A senator went to his list game, so let him not forget in the list when the banks, worn out, were placed under the head of currency, do not forget it in this list, dear boy. paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u71	A respectable president. In the foundation, we'll probably discuss this without precedent. It was not just one bank that broke down in the fall of 2008 but that of an entire nation. Today, we are struggling to rebuild, not just one bank, but seven financial institutions, of whom three were combined in one of the biggest bankruptcys in human history. So it comes as no surprise to me that there are a number of laws needed to solve this problem. I'm not particularly surprised, and I was just expecting it to happen at this fall bill, which would have to be tailored to various failings of the law that have been found to be barriers in the way of the old ones in order to make difficult contracts. In short, the bill we discuss is about trying to set matters simply in this unprecedented subject and a large solution to the fact that these seven broilers can bring an emergency. What is special about these contracts is not only the scope of the problem but also that these are really debts. It's an arrangement for living things. These are not contracts in the sense that this enterprise will continue business, as the contracts of need are generally about, i.e. A company makes short contracts and then the company continues in a modified form. It does not mean that these financial institutions will continue. They are to be tried to end them with this form of fixed contracts, at least by this bill to enable them to do so. Because of this, there are a number of legal decisions that need to be taken. It is tried to do so in a way that does not pose a threat to a system of equality that all are put under the same hat. It's complicated. I'm on some part of the committee party. I know it's a complicated bill and technical thing but I think I have enough understanding of its contents to accept it. This appeared to me as necessary measures to enable the farms to settle fixed fixed contracts and provide them with a petition for approval or a release by a New Year's Reconnaissance. Then, with our proposal to a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee, they get an extension to confirm these treaties if they are submitted. I'm on it. The debate here today has been a little bit concerned about how you're gonna fix up the old stuff and who you look like, sounds to me. Then I'll take the rest of this talk to tell you how the situation is facing me. I've been introduced to the stability proposals, the agreements of the old residents, such as the nation and the members of the Economic and Business Committees and the Parliaments, and I have been told that the Council Committee considers these agreements to meet the stabilisation conditions. I welcome that conclusion. I've always talked about it, and we're gonna be in a bright future trying to arrange things so that they're making deals on how their farms will be cut off. I advertised it in inquiry at the council, and I have had some strange comments at times. I've heard a lot of people say that this is a good idea. I now experience that we are looking at findings that are not just the results of the current government work in the past few months or something like that, something that the present government pulls out of its hat. I view this as a conclusion of work from collapse, from a large number of politicians, groups, and officials. There are several very important guides on this expedition, some of which have been parapolitic organizations and sometimes not. Let's start with the law of distress. They're very important in this, making it possible. It was a very important decision to prepare for a currency head, of which there was no unity, but the decision is essential for this to be possible. Time has worked with the Icelanders on this matter. The magnitude of the problem has gradually become apparent. In time, everyone, including the demands of the old living, has come to realize that the amount of money in Icelandic and Icelandic assets could not get out of the Icelandic economy without causing a major failure in Iceland. It has been successful to convince the demands that this will not work and will never be possible. I'm now looking at these short contracts, which include all Icelandic possessions being left behind in Iceland - all of them - and even the currency comes up to 40 billion. There will be no effects on the level of payment. That's the Secret Bank assessment. Now I'd like to remind you that when the old place was due to be renovated, and to be done, there was no way that the deification of the old settlements would add to Iceland's financial problem. That's the goal. It seems to me that these desperate contracts have succeeded. Otherwise, I have to advertise to the viewpoints and arguments that indicate that I'm wrong. Is there any more Icelandic possession that the swollen can yield? That's what this has always been about, the Icelandic stuff. It's natural to keep in mind that the old hive, the seven, is a private business. They'll be built as a private firm. I don't feel that there's much more to it than the job of the Icelandic government. They divide up their foreign possessions according to contracts approved by the local demands. They exchange foreign possessions do not affect the financial problems of the Icelanders. I feel that there is a misunderstanding in this discussion of all things, considering the value of the Icelandic possessions and making it a key factor. What's the value of an Iceland bank? Has there been any prices at Iceland Bank? It doesn't matter right now. The important thing is that the Icelandic assets are, so I, in turn, smutable. They're not leaving the Icelandic economy. They go under the government's wing with all the challenging work that this certainly involves. They will not flow out of the economy. That's key. This is the goal to be achieved. The value of the possessions is simply to be seen. I hope they mean a lot. If Iceland's Bank wasn't worth anything, it wouldn't have affected the financial problems. Of its own, this question is not important at this point. In fact, I feel that both council members of the government stand out, and the government has made too much of a centenarian on the value of the property. The important thing is that they will not flow out of the economy with a related effect on the public's standard of living. I experience it so that it was entirely a parapolitic agreement during a council to try to set up the former settlements so that they would not affect the balance of payment. I also felt that it was an absolute agreement during the discussion in the summer when we agreed on two prime radios, on the other hand, on the stable taxes and on the forced agreements, that this was not a pay factor. So now I'm a little surprised to learn how many senators speak about the value of property and the possible differences between the stability project and the stable tax, and that the demands are getting away with some discount and the state is giving away some income in this game. This does not rhyme with the cross - political harmony I heard here in the summer, when everyone seemed to realize that it was not the income harvest procedure but, by nature, the action to solve the nation's pay problem. I think we need to talk about it. It is likely that the result is in drawing short contracts to solve the pay problem. That's the main thing. Then you compare it, the stability tax and the stability proposals. I feel completely consistent when I say so and always talk about better negotiations. I feel that the way of contracts involves better results for Icelanders and better conclusions for the demands that will be taken in order to end the matter. There will be no uncertainty about these matters in the court system. I think it's good. I always felt that the stable tax was expressed as a similar to that of a favorable emergency agreement, so that if you didn't get legal contracts for a year ago, the stable tax, which was fixed to the biggest problem of the same population and then a reference to all other habitats, would be available. I experienced the stable tax as an incentive to make contracts. I feel like I've made it, and I was happy for the summer that this duet was set up, i.e. tax and the possibility of emergency contracts. Until then, only taxes had been talked about, and I felt that they couldn't resist, and I felt that it would also have to open this way to pay taxes, and I feel that it had worked. I feel that the conclusion is not just something the government is cooking up now but the conclusion of years of work. I feel that many can take credit for this conclusion, to be honest. Is the tax any better? They say it's more beneficial, but I don't think it's any better because he leaves his things in the camp. All the goods will remain in the camp. They may increase worth more, much less. Then a problem might arise again. We couldn't tell when the farm would end. Still, two banks had to be sold, and it is even more likely that they would become a fire sale because the crew would like to get rid of this bank. I think it'd be better if the government cared for the bank sale than for us to do it by ourselves, at least. I see both pros and cons at the same time. In any case, the stability project involves that all the assets that could affect payment will be in charge of the government, they enter the Bank of Iceland, and we can control the situation. That's very important to me, but it's a better conclusion than the tax. That's how I see it. While I'm celebrating this conclusion and find it hard to see how emergency contracts are better for all people and will have less impact on Iceland's financial problems, of course, the world will not be without problems as a result. Of course, though this agreement will be agreed and confirmed in the courts, the Icelanders face a very large solution. One involves taking care of all the property that comes to the State, of which two banks will be owned. I feel that I need a very deep and intense discussion about it. She's going to go out. How do they sell them? Shall they be sold? What about Iceland's banking system and financial system? How do we want to keep history from repeating itself? How do we want to do better selling, if we do, these financial institutions than the ones we sold back at the turn of the century? These are big questions. It's our problem, and it's very important to deal with all these assets, big and small, state of transparency and professionalism. This can be a seed of corruption, all these things that come under the wings of the kingdom, all these requirements, stocks, cash, all of this. All of this must be done so that it is on tables. Of course, this can have a tremendous impact on the population. There are assets that are of great value. It comes right into the state fund. It should be clear that these funds will be spent by responsibility and discipline and that expectations are not being raised. I don't think the corneas have been to this point soaring expectations, with all the adventured money coming to us. I think there's a bit of confirmation in my mind that the two categories in the government are not good at holding back their expectations. It must be done at this point. If there are 500 billion coming into the state's budget, it should be clear that they must be protected in a way that doesn't approve. We need to think for a long time. We need to think of the long - term infrastructure. We have to pay off the debt of the government. It is out of discipline and responsibility that we need to handle this money. I'm worried that so much money could be coming into the budget in the fall before election. I will see how we resist all temptations. You have to lift water, that's one job. It has always been known that the deification of the old farms does not lift itself, but if it is made up so that it does not affect the financial problems of the Icelanders, it makes it more likely that the ocean will be removed. One big task is being done before you can say that you can eliminate the seas, and in fact, more projects, that is, an invitation on the Offland. I feel bad it hasn't already been done, that it's been delayed this way. Clearly, this must be done before seas can be removed. Of course, the common things we in the short future have often spoken about: What does the future look like when we are in English? Is she holding hands without a trace? I believe now is an appropriate time point to accept the Congress resolution of our senators'proposal for the establishment of a policy in currency at the moment of recovery of seas. There is evidence to suggest that the economic failure from the rising years and then the crisis up to the turn of the century will be repeated with excessive influxs and with a growing exchange that the dollar cannot handle. This, of course, needs to be discussed. V.E.G. President. This is where I come in. I think it would be preferable to conclude, if necessary, that all Icelandic assets will be left behind in Iceland. It's very desirable. I am surprised to learn that this is not the norm because I thought that was the goal of many people in both the former and the present governments. I have felt that it would be wise for me to try to negotiate with that goal rather than try to achieve it by other means. That's it. I experience this as good news, but of course I do not experience the world that will be faced, if this happens, without problems. We are taking many major challenges.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u72	Mr. President. Time is good, the world is bad. But no matter what. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson is consistent with himself. He is correct in saying that the fruitage we now stand for has come through many governments. It is fascinating, for example, to see that the conclusion before us is very much in the spirit that the last government was working on, i.e. In the end, the trade route was gone. A senator supported you from the beginning. The crowning property is more and less fraught with demands, 350,4400 billion. And as with the former government, both of them owned by Icelandic banks. Then the question is how the government has played out its strong contract base and was created with approval of Generalis on March 12, 2012, when the tenures of the tenets were locked up in Icelandic economic law. I'm not going to think about it, though. A senator has agreed to this, and the independence party voted against the present government. The premise of all of this is not merely that we sail out of this so that we can get rid of the demands of the crew and get out of the stocks, the premise was that it was equal with demands, the public, the Icelandic companies, the pensions, in terms of de-exploitation of currency. I'm asking why. A senator, for I noticed that he put it to the point that there was a chance that later a currency might be removed to the rest of us: Does he think that he is, and is convinced that this conclusion will lead to that? Then I can only ask him, because he supports this conclusion as it is in the bill: I view this taxation service against the Tortolian team as the smuggling team, and I pray. A senator's attempt to explain why this is essential to achieving goals successfully. A senator has described it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u73	A respectable president. Only the tax change we make. It is simply a prerequisite for making out a bond to make up for themselves because they have to be registered in foreign markets, which I don't know how to mention, but it's Eurocler - it's a particular tendency for members of the Parliament to look at the water. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson when they try to remember the names of the market - but they do not accept registration if they have to pay back any tax to the state. [[Up front.]] So it had to be changed and has had to be changed in the case of many other companies too. But as it has been stressed, it's not about income. It's simply about how you can write these bonds in these designated marketplaces and I don't see, in terms of the interests involved here, that you should go out of your way to be special against it, especially when there's no income at stake. Regarding the other question, regarding the situation, I would like to point out that it is the very nature of these contracts that the demands are not allowed to exchange their assets to currency. They will not be allowed to take Icelandic property out of the economy. That's because it's headed. They are allowed to settle their foreign possessions because they have no influence on the amount of payment they earn. When we're lifted, it's not gonna be like this. Then they take their goods, and buy themselves things abroad, and so on the streets. They will not have to be left behind. If this is a question of equality, rather lean on the demands. They give very much to be prepared, but when removed, this will not be the reality of the public. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u74	A respectable president. I believe this bill confirmed what has been going on for a while, that men were writing, the Icelandic government was in effect negotiating with the demandsors, and it went on the way of negotiations. There was a conflict within the government that lasted for two years to determine whether to go bankrupt or to negotiate. To put it this way may have been more reasonable. I guess that's what it's about to be. A senator is trying to convince me that once a negotiation is done for months, i.e. From Christmas before Christmas, can anyone suddenly find that these bonds of debt cannot be canceled and that men have overlooked going out of their way that no one saw ahead of them? I don't believe in it. I can't agree that there's a prerequisite for making ready to go this way. I'd rather go, and I agree with you. A senator's view that these are not the sum of much importance in the larger form, but they can be of great importance to a very few individuals. I think of this as a smuggling article, and I'm against this piece of bill, but I need to know why. A senator supports this, and that's where it's at. Then I'd like to reiterate the larger question: Is there a problem? A senator of the opinion that this will lead to recovery of currency? When I examine available plans, I think it suggests that as early as 2022, it will be possible to let others out of the demand for 30 billion a year. In that room are the pension funds that need 150 billion a year. In other words, I'll allow myself to doubt that the way we're going is going to be able to subsidize currency capitals so that they can reach me, to the other side. A senator and a pension fund. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u75	A respectable president. I don't see it as my special role to eliminate doubts. A senator's opinion of the matter of the tax, or to convince him that there's nothing unclean here. I can only tell you how I experience this matter. They will need to be able to write their letters in these marketplaces, and they will only be able to do so if we make this change. In this case, there are no income questions. That's how I get it. A senator is quite free to understand it somehow differently. Regarding the lack of resources, I studied in my speech that I have always had the understanding that one of the biggest challenges to lift seas is to prevent the development of old living things from affecting payments that it would not be possible. Now there is a set of fixed contracts that completely zero this effect of payment, so it's out of the way. Is it possible to lift the seas? That's still a big question. There's going to be an invitation on the Offshore. I don't feel so good that it didn't work out. It's big, and there's big money in there. That's what needs to be the result. But then I think, and I agree with the bank manager in his opinion that at some point, after the invitation has been made, it was a situation to lift the seas if then. It's about to start an influx of funds, which is a problem less disturbing to us, that gives us excessive strength to the crown, so we need to lift water. Of course, it will be done with certain speed blocks and so forth. Still, one of the biggest questions to such an unscrupulous world is: do you accept it? [[The president calls.]] And I'm now, like a whale. A senator knows, a firm spokesman, that we trade currency.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u76	A respectable president. We're here to discuss the opinion and adjustment of a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee at the financial and economic bill which has the main objective of helping to facilitate the emergency contract of the tenants of fallen financial companies. The bill suggests changes to three law columns, income taxes laws, special taxes on financial companies and financial law, as well as to the Commission for a change in the law on permanence tax. These changes include improvements in legislation established by the General Assembly in spring when laws on stable taxes were passed and laws were made to help support the emergency agreements of fallen financial companies. Hv. The speaker of the majority of the committees in his speech has attributed to the bill and the changes proposed by the majority of the committee. The bill suggests, among other things, that the bonds that the demands are given to the demands of the full demand agreements will be given an exception to the deduction tax. According to a memo received from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, this is a matter of paying for the fact that the bonds can go on markets, but the tax responsibilities in this country would prevent it. The Commission was informed that a large extramarital party for the publishing of European bond bonds would not accept the bonds to register if they had a deduction tax. At the same time, the bill itself revealed that the Ministry has not expected any income from the deduction tax. In countries where two-fold tax agreements have made with Iceland there are no deduction taxes in this country anyway. As we know, Iceland has made double tax agreements with a number of countries. However, national demands from the taxpayers in the country and from abroad are the taxpayers in their own country of possible income from these bonds. However, the government taxpayer's review pointed out that it might be tightened and restricted to the bonds that would be involved in paying according to a contract. A greater part of the Economic and Business Committee is making a suggestion to respond to this statement by the head of the state tax. The bill suggests a number of technical adjustments to pay for contracts made. I will not review all of them in this talk. I'd like to briefly enter the bill's proposal to reduce the proportion of demands of the funds behind the approval of a contract bill from 90% to 85%. The committee received reviews that it was necessary to lower the proportion further, or to 60%, and in a memo received by the Committee from the Ministry of Economics and Economics, they agreed on that view. In view of the number and small number of demands that many of them are not going to a demanding meeting, but according to current law, the votes of those who do not meet automatically against the emergency bill fall. The majority of the Committee suggests a change in the proposal to include only the votes of the panels coming to the meeting and that the agreed rate will not be less than 60% but to a maximum of 85% to meet these views. The third change I would like to make in this brief speech is followed by the reviews of the factaries and a response from the Ministry that it is necessary to extend up time to complete the approval of the claimors of their bill in forced agreements. By the years of the year, the stocks of the stocks shall have set up an approved legal agreement for the province. Clearly, courts need leeway to discuss the enormous poverty agreements. So the committee suggests that there may be an extension. In order to avoid the stress of the stable tax, however, the courts and reefs must have finished their affairs by March 15. Without such a delay, it would really be to put a stone into the streets of broken - up people who have since worked in our good faith to solve the problems of national living contracts that have reached the goal of meeting the stability of the World Bank. Finally, I want to use this opportunity to thank you. Andersen, for her good work in the processing of the committee. Also, I would like to thank the Committee for a good job, as well as visitors who came before the committee and helped with the progress of the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u77	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator for the speech. Here in our discussion today, there have been many questions. It is spoken of as transparency, uncertainty, what happens to property, that is certain to be the way, but the law is being changed now being made possible for the nation's benefit? When the banks were previously privateized, nothing went well, there certainly were developments that did not benefit the nation. So there are a lot of uncertainty and many questions. I want to ask you why. A senator as to whether the transition to the greater part of the Economic and Business Committee will put on the deduction tax is sufficient to prevent the administration of Toils, such as the head. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson put it so nicely earlier today, someone horny. First of all, count back. A senator that will use the deduction tax? Second, is the change sufficient to prevent this? The discussion earlier has shown that it seems that it is being used not only to tailor the laws to the demands of the crew but also to please those with funds, e.g. to Tort itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u78	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the question. The change that the committee made in the bill's terms did not turn to any Tortol team but to the own lawyers who would accept the full limit of these contracts, that they could not issue any more debt by this enforcation. This was only true of the bonds that would be issued to provide demands to pay the contract. It could have been interpreted as being farfetched, though it might have been, that this attorney could have continued and published more editions to use extras for another purpose, have activities like that. It is extremely farfetched, yet the committee decided to pay for the possibility. Regarding the second part of the question, I don't know if any of the Tortula team is among the owners at the market. We asked the Ministry if government funds would be deprived of any income by this exception. The answers were on the way that they could not be expected, which could not be completely excluded. If you look at this theory, it seems that you can avoid these taxes legally, this deduction tax, by e.g. Through Belgium, where such taxes are not laid on the publishing of such bonds, there are so many ways to pass by this tax that it is really useless. Many countries have failed to use it because it does not work. However, there would be high costs for the government not only to provide information but also to demand information from the major companies responsible for the registration of these letters and extramaritals. In the end, it was not a reason to put a stone in the street of these rovers to publish the bonds because there was a chance that 0.1% of these demands would be on Tortolian Island, but it is attempted to help them get these letters and that they can go shopping and selling. [[The president calls.]] Thus, they may also be able to be more flexible in our contracts, or what is called a living conversation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u79	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I understand that the deduction tax directives are made specifically of the demands of the crew and take care of their needs. That's how I understood him. He confirmed it. Hv. A senator spoke of a so - called living conversation that I understand has occurred between the Federal Bank, the Ministry of finance, and the demands. I allow me to state that during the last term, the candidates would have called this agreement with a vulture fund. Now it has been mentioned as a living conversation, something very special to witness. As I said before, there's a lot of suspicion. For example, members of Congress have not been allowed to observe this living conversation, so we do not know what is behind them. [[The president calls.]] How does that count? A senator that can eliminate the suspicions that have been observed many times during the discussion today? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u80	A respectable president. I'm stating that governments did not negotiate with demands. Rather, it was in a set of stability conditions, and then violational governments or groups of demands were required to recommend how they would meet these stability conditions. Since then, it has been called a living conversation. About the way the transparency has been... [[Up front.]] [[Take it up: A living conversation about contracts.]] Let us consider the second part of the question, how has the process been successful? I have been greatly critical of this process and, in many respects, in many ways, I think, because I was on the same board of consultations with a senator who introduced to us some ideas to solve the situation. It has to be said that at the time of our meeting with the Commission at this council, with this government, there were many changes in that concept. I would like to agree that the solution considered here is the natural product of many governments' work, including the changes made in the spring months of 2012. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u81	V.E.G. President. I have listened here today with interest to the talks given by prominent speakers, parts 1 and 2, smaller things, and why. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Siglejonson, president of the Economic and Business Committee, and trying to form an opinion on this complex matter so that I can make an informed and successful decision. I think, more dignified President, here is a review of information and evidence in this case. For my part, I'm saying as a senator, I can't get into all the evidence that has clearly been submitted, some in confidence, on this matter. In the short answer to what. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Sigllionsson, who is also like I said before the head of the Economic and Business Committee, I would like to ask about the Committee and the work of the Committee. One is the bill laid down by the secretary of finance in accordance with cost analysis and all but in 2 mgr. 30. g. Congress stands, by permission of the President: A committee with an approved legal bill or a concierge proposal shall let her print in her opinion a plan for the costs of new laws or assumptions that will lead to a government fund. And then there's: Instead, the commission shall have a review of the cost estimates of the administrative bill, as is 37. g., if it makes a significant change in the bill. I believe, a more dignified president, that the Commission has made significant changes in this bill and criticism that such large and massive decisions are made by the Commission, not by a special bill delivered by the secretary of finance, and we could have talked about. Counts 'em out. A senator that the committee should not have met this legal requirement and printed it in its opinion in terms of Article 30. Congress? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u82	A respectable president. I have to admit that I don't understand how the committee was supposed to have changed the case in a way that resulted in the financial cost. I wish for it. A senator explains his case a little better. If he's talking about giving courts more room to March 15th to discuss the short contracts and to finish the process here with the full will of the council this year, it's really... Bigtime. A senator wants to nod his head if I'm on the right track? Is that what he means? I don't see that there is a change. It's just that these sources are being enabled to finish their business in the way they suggested it. I don't think there's a reason to think of it as a great change that courts allow space to discuss the complex issues of these worn-outs.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u83	V.E.G. President. This may not affect the budget of the next year or something, but what has been presented in the discussion today is critical that the problem is being delayed. It appeared in the opinion of the Invenence group, but its representatives have visited us as members of the United States and expressed great doubts that the problem is being delayed even for the next election period, about four to six years, by choosing this route, as it has been highly critical, instead of going through the tax routes spoken of and making a great discount. It has also been shown, more dignified President, that there is no such thing as subsidies of the pension fund, the Icelandic company or the Icelandic public for some taste. That's why I asked why. The head of the Economic and Business Committee if it had not been worth it for committees to have a chapter on the economic issues I made up to talk about.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u84	A respectable president. I think I understand now the question. You see, we're having two cases here at the same time, and now I realize it. A senator is discussing the currency laws, the currency laws, but according to the Treaty, when he decides whether he will give the victims of fallen financial companies from the seas and then consult with the secretary of finance, the result is presented to a financial and business committee. This is a case of No. 172... [[- The Economic and Business Committee for the Parliament.]] This matter we're discussing today, No. 172, it's not on the currency business, but it's under the law of currency that these terms are being given. This is simply a technical adjustment of the methodology set up in spring, i.e. on stable taxes, and being helping out so that the worn-out could actually take the way they were offered to solve their problems without developing financial instability, without having a negative impact on the standard of living, and without being disturbed by the population's balance. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u85	A respectable president. First, I'd like to make a comment. Once I was rebuked here by a president, actually not the one sitting right now, for bringing a computer here. Now I would've wanted to bring a computer up a pin instead of that paper bus. Away from that, I'd like to have some. A senator to shed a little more light on some of the factors that memorize - quite a few of them. I have to admit that I'm not entirely judgmental on transparency because there's so much of this that I'm having trouble understanding. I would have wanted much more time to look into this matter completely. Sometimes you can read and learn fast, but this case is so important that I would have wanted a better time to cover it all, especially where adjustments were made. The financial and business committees are what I get best at seeing more material than the bill itself, which I think is evidence that it is necessary to be very careful about the situation, as I think it would be. A committee has probably done so. I wondered about the numbers that men mention in this context. In my conversations with the various parties on this matter, I have heard some differences as to which numbers are correct and whether the numbers are above, as well as whether they can be completely certain until the process is complete. I'd like to hear more about this. How certain are there about the numbers, the respect of Iceland banks as an example, or other figures that have been forwarded? It is often that the figures become the center of the conversation, in my opinion, in part unnecessary, but it is important that we know how well we know something about the numbers. All light as light. A senator can throw up on this subject, and I would appreciate it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u86	A respectable president. Hv. One senator wondered how certain they were behind the numbers that are included in the releases of the currency figures. Then we are discussing, not the subject of today's discussion, but the greater context of this matter. [[Up front.]] I think I'm just gonna have to point it out. A senator at the report that the Council gave to the Economic and Business Committee which reviews the main figures. I'm going to protect the hall from reading from the report, which includes both the figures and the uncertainty of them; it's considerable. The numbers are usually of value, or if checked. Among other things, it involves the amount of possessions that move over can blow up in value after they move to the Kingdom Fund. So if they rise, this uncertainty becomes completely hand-wise and manageable, i.e. if the assets are transferred to the state. However, if the tax route had left, the real identity of the possessions would be very important. This process, when all the property is swept to the State, is less concerned whether it is small or large. In both cases, most of the money has to be taken away. It is a secondary matter if we go this way, but it is a big thing if we take the tax route.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u87	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a clear and clear answer. Another thing that I'm wondering about this tax substitution: There have now been some senators in a pit, and I am very angry that men are being given too much credit and such things as this, something I agree with. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson's son isn't the main thing. It's not a business path. We're trying to get rid of the problem of currency heads. I think it's important to have the focus there. I wondered if there was a committee or elsewhere, why. A senator knows that he would collect this tax by other means that would not get in the hands of the foreign markets that can handle this bond. Was it above the discussion, or is there a general reason to do so at first?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u88	A respectable president. If I understand why. A member of the council rightly wondered about the deduction tax mentioned in this case and whether it would have been discussed with other means of collecting taxes on published bond that the worn - outs made in connection with the fragments. [[Up front.]] I have to say, it wasn't that way. It is the fact that any demands that may have settled in Iceland are taxable under Icelandic law and will pay taxes on the money they may gain from this. The demands that have settled abroad pay taxes in their own country. I think this is probably true in the vast majority of the demands and the amount of money involved in this situation that would not have resulted in a tax gain anyway. It was not the aim of the Committee to tax it specifically, since it is not part of the problem that was being solved.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u89	A respectable president. In this discussion, of course, there is a mixture of discussions over the limited technical changes proposed by the Committee to be made in the pacts of fixed taxes and stability initiatives, as well as the larger forms that we face in view of the fact that the Council does not allow others to be discussed with the bigger picture than what is being discussed here today. This is because governments have been very involved and we are only allowed to see presentations that testify to any commercialism, to say the least, and the matter is not in the final payment for the treatment of the council. First, I'm going to say about the pragmatic changes presented here that it's hard to say about their stand. I wonder, though, how rational it is to run along in the way that governments suggest and a greater part of the committee now suggest, to do over and over every longer for broken contracts to complete short contracts, in view of the fact that there is no evidence other than that there may be more to squeeze out of the foreign demands, and we might even be strengthening our contracts as far as this process goes. So I've been surprised to learn how much emphasis has been placed on taking care of this whole matter with a great hurry, but it's hard to say anything about it, as the point is going on. Because there has been a debate today regarding the policy-making attitude and the apparent results of negotiations with the foreign demands, I want to state clearly that I think it is desirable to reach a material conclusion, and I think most of the evidence that we have seen is to reach a conclusion that is at least going. long to meet the goals that must matter to us most, i.e. that after foreign claimors cannot get their possessions out of the economy but, in effect, after they have left, they will also open a way for the domestics to get out of the sea. It is difficult, however, to say anything about it because the reasons have not been made public and because of all the coverts that have been around negotiations. It's been a long-term scheme of negotiations, probably takes almost a year or at least Nine months. Of course, the mystery of this matter has been very great, and it is not easy to build a solidarity on the basis of such beliefs when the government is carried out in such a secret. However, it is important to rejoice that the government in this has relied on professional counseling of the Federal Bank, and I can see clearly from the information that comes from that source and from the analyses that the Secret Bank has proposed that it has been admissible in the analysis of different advantages and that the process of making a deal should be traced to the above and deserves to commend the trades of the Federal Bank in that respect. It is, of course, happy that in this way the government has been able to get down from the situation she had established at the beginning of her career with graphic information on the treatment of these cases and the integrityless cycle of the eternal committee ships that we witnessed in front of the season when each friend group of government officials was brought up to find solutions in these matters and went first in circles. But it was not until a person relied on the professionality that was found within the Society that something began to happen knowingly in that regard. It is then easy to believe that the physical conclusion that we are now studying is very much in line with the suggestion that we proposed in the Syndicate for the last election, that we would have to make use of the contract that had already been created against demands, and then we could assume that there would be room for about 300 billion that would have to be used to pay off the debt of state funds. The panel spoke very highly of the fact that they liked to beat foreign demands with clubs and get enormous money out of it, but now the forwarding party promotes best with foreign demands instead of hitting them with clubs. And the forwarding team who spoke to them as if they had not to be careful with the Constitutionary rights of ownership has now hurried to negotiate with the demanding workers in order to avoid lawsuits. It is interesting to note that there has been something learned from this journey and that it is a joy to see this reversal on the side of the governments, especially the forward party. It is of great importance, however, that this operation is successful. It is true that the bank manager has said that there is only one shot in the gun and that it is worth reminding that it is in the gun because it was built in the last government of its last government with the decision to end up with a penitentiary. And I still have to hear an explanation from the executives of this government how, in the first place, they thought they would not support the operation during the last term and what the proselytists of the Independence Party would just vote against it, for there was the foundation that we are using today to protect national interests and to present Icelandic needs and interests to the foreign demands. There would have been no way to negotiate with the foreign demands or to put them in an excellent position if this change had not been made. How important it is, then, that all the facts be taken at tables and that it is possible for the individual experts and the nation to review all these facts and to form a view as to whether the facts are successful. I can totally agree with what's been said that the tax money isn't important. It is important that the problem is firmly solved, so the transparency is so important. It has not been for the sake of confidence in this case to observe the embarrassing efforts of the government to add the figures behind what has been actually done, when the members of the Agency have been so ashamed to have given up on beating demands with clubs and to be agreeing with them that they have to try to create numbers that match the stable tax and do it by counting the whole number on the pants they've been wearing and in all the things that had been put into these cases before and even things they were reluctant to fall on like the Secret Service Bank in the first, it's doubled. This problem is not to make the confidence that the problem is just what it is, to identify it, and to solve it. The danger we face is that foreign demands will go out with their assets, such as in this government agreement with the foreign demands, and yet there will be no room for domestic parties to get away with their property from the country, that the pensions will remain within the domestic enterprise within the bounds, the nation will continue under restrictions of free capital transport. This is real danger, and the situation is fragile in this regard. Indefence has made serious comments that I don't think the government has taken seriously, and it is important to make sure that such comments are responded sufficiently. It is such a delicate situation that the government now seems to have messed up the surrender. Because most people have not come to work in the right order, the evidence is that when the deportation is finally under way, their owners will not see a special benefit in offering a discount on them, especially in the light of statements we hear from government leaders, members of government groups, such as the head of the Council of the Agency, who were making a promise here at the beginning of the next year. Then, the owners of a deportation that men were making practical expectations of being willing to participate in an invitation and face perhaps 100 billion loss there, they may sit and wait. In this one case, the government has only screwed up an opportunity that was in hand, and it is in no doubt now that any similar result is being obtained from an obligatory campaign as expected. It is also a problem that we will continue to work with in the years to get property into prices and, of course, this is a huge problem in taking over all our hands, from the stocks of stuffed camps to stocks of rural society that now become state possession, we create a complex temptation and a multipliance in the Ministers to make sure that these are now getting to buy and not the other and that we have not begun to discuss sales on the banks. It was interesting to hear the chairman of the Economic and Business Committee say in a radio interview this morning that selling the banks is ridiculous. This describes the fact that this bank has been taken away by a local friend. The lack of competition with foreign investors for this bank has now been guaranteed. No, they're supposed to be skirmishers for a good friend forever. [[Up front.]] They are to be placed in the hands of well - connected friends, making sure that they can use them to slip in at the cost of the nation indefinitely. And prove it, when it comes to that, justice will be found in that only those who intend to gain a bank in order to create a position in their domestic power jackets are willing to pay extra bills for the bank stocks, just as it was before collapse. That's why the Commission's statement on the radio this morning is so disturbing. If there's anything we need, it's selling one of these banks to foreign owners. And the bullshit that sounds like it's harmful to the population's currency is that if the bank's worth is true, it can never be more than a expectation future pay today, so it will never be more than real to the bank in a foreign currency that justifys the payment of it for the future. What we later need to discuss is beyond discussion. This suggests that they will be removed quickly next year. There may be a time when some business ventures will be temporarily removed from restrictions while there will be a much higher interest level here than in other countries and while the influx vapors are as likely to be in the anticipated future. But we know from a very bitter experience that free capital transport and dollars is a poisonous mixture, and we have not yet seen any updated proposals for delinquency for the Icelandic public, Icelandic company and Icelandic pension fund. It is of great interest that the government has not trusted to submit a revised plan for execution. The only plan still in force is the one that was presented and published in the history of memory as Minister of Economic and Business in March 2011. That's the plan to take out the currency pot that's still in force. And it is truly unique that the government has not had the worth of it to bring in some new vision of it in view of all these changes in how companies, publics, and pensions could be lifted. On the contrary, the only thing that has been delivered is that pension funds can be expected to obtain 10 billion salads, which everyone knows is far too little for the pension fund. This, of course, is the most important thing to have a promise, but they also have developed ideas about how to maintain an open business environment. Today, there is a unique opportunity to exist. We have made use of the situation created by the law of rescue and by the legislation in March 2012, when we were paying for the severest problems we faced with the national currency balance. Today, the ideal situation is to get us out of the eternal cycle of economic instability, which is usually indicated by waiting beyond the corner as unchanged, i.e. It turns out that the unchanged cycle of inflation, growth gains, plagiarizations, and upsured loans are up - to - date. Sadly, we know that cycle too well. There would now be a government that would be ready to go another route, to use this historic opportunity to pick up another currency, to get us out of this unstable circuit, and to lay the groundwork for better conditions for the public and business in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u90	A respectable president. I come up here to protest the most presumptuous of them. A senator took his leave in the public talk about my position on a radio interview this morning that I did not consider it desirable or likely for the nation to sell the banks abroad. I reasoned very well in this interview why I thought it wasn't, and it wasn't for the reasons. A senator wanted to mean, that I thought it was good, and I have to sell these banks to somebody's private friends. On the contrary, I disagree completely with such things and have never participated in anything like that, as well. paritaprevir Páll's Árnason years are well - aware. He's coming up here on a talker's chair to argue that this is what's behind when I'm arguing that banks should not be sold out of the country. An Icelandic bank of the magnitude here is talking about, the Iceland Bank or Anion Bank, say, is no less than one company that makes the most money each year here. The banks make more money than the whole sea route. So are we going to sell this bank for currency? It's like pissing in his shoe or shooting into his leg with the only shot you've ever had. paritaprevir Páll's Árnason years are so thoughtful because no one buys such a bank unless he intends to get much more money for decades out of the country. These banks don't create currency, they give money in dollars, and then they have to turn into a currency of the nation's currency, so that one of the most ostentatious things we could do as a nation would be taking these giant companies that are making all this profit and injecting it from a country in the form of currency.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u91	A respectable president. This argument can only be removed from foreign investments. Then she's a mean one. Since the value of a bank must involve today's anticipated recovery from the bank, it is not a matter of paying any lower price to the bank than they expect it to be reimbursed indefinitely. If the bank is the right price, they buy it on the basis of the long - term money they pay and respect it. There are a number of advantages in a foreign holding of banks, particularly in the few environments that we now live in, where three large banks are on the market, all with a model stunt model and have an enormous financial hazard for national preparation. It would be important if one of them was in a foreign land and thus had access to loans from a foreign owner. The talk that was given earlier included isolationism. The explanation was all followed by the fact that a foreign possession was bad for itself. There is nothing more than a clear testimony to the sincere desire of the Agency's chairman to make sure that foreign people are not allowed to buy this bank and thus keep it out of the way for domestic buyers. Who are they? We know that. There are business blocks that stand unbroken side by side with the leading members of the government, divide themselves to the divisions, possess the case books they rely on, and walk with them hand in hand from morning to midnight.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u92	A respectable president. One thing is to disagree that it is good for the nation to have their own banks in one way or another. Another factor is that they are now standing to sell them to some private friends by corrupt methods. That's totally wrong. paritaprevir PállÁrnason) What will be considered in the next article? Has he not heard of supply and demand? What if no one wants to buy the bank or the few buyers are on the market? This rule applies only if it's a perfect market. It's not a perfect market for Icelandic banks. There are not many buyers to distribute. Over here, many have been telling the world that banks can be sold for high prices. I don't think that's right. Well, maybe that's it. These banks, however, are in a low - price competition environment, and they pump out money, no matter how little the demand is for them abroad. I think it's important to mention, because I think that's what. A senator has not listened to the whole interview with me on the radio this morning, that I listed potential buyers to such banks. They're not everywhere in Iceland. It's really just the state funds and the pensions that can buy the banks. I think the pension fund that is about to get much more pay - isn't it being raised from 12% to 15.5%? - will have to invest for over 100 to150 billion a year. The need for investment will be like this when these heavy expenditures come in, far beyond the amount of pension they pay, so it may be a very suitable form of possession for us as a nation. We own the pension fund together. Why can't one of the big pensions take over a bank? I am totally opposed to any corrupt, indiscriminate way to sell banks or to personal property. I don't think there's a chance of running into it. For example, regarding the Bank of Lands, I believe that it is to remain owned by the nation. I've been talking about it, like a dog. paritaprevir The years of Páll Árnason know that he will be disfellowshipped on social grounds, not merely taking the lead in making as much money as possible on the nation, but being responsible for reducing interest levels here, reducing expenses that lead to an increase in market competition. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u93	A respectable president. It's very important for Iceland to have a bank market competition. We've been living in a growing lowlifes following a collapse, compression. As a result, it would be very important to receive a foreign possession, even if only to break up the bank's ownership religion. It is quite unrealistic to think that three banks of Icelandic pension can be sold. If we do, we're in fact just changing the pension system into a flow system. So we're just saying the Icelandic people are running the banks. The banking system will then become part of the government in one way or another. How important it is that there is a difference between banks'holding! Hv. A senator asks this question in the wonder why I assume that a statement by the Prosecutor of the Agency that selling foreign banks would not be an option for them to be taken for a free friend. The track's starting to scare, huh? Senator. These groups sold the banks, and they handled the buyers. They lied to the nation for material reasons at the time of the sale. They gave people the highest rate for their clearness of offer, which basically changed the offer from beginning to end. They have resisted a study approved by the Allied Parliament on the privatization process. [[Open the door, hear, hear!]] It is he himself who prevents the past's smoke from being examined. Will he then come here more innocent than a fried angel's face and argue that he does not understand or understand that people have doubts about the honesty and sincerity of a forwarding party and self - centered party in choosing well and fair buyers to banks? Hear the endemity. The tracks scare, and when it is determined and determined to stop examining being the mistakes of the past, they are saying that they want to repeat them. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u94	A respectable president. Since I came into politics, it was the first government, the only government I've ever experienced to have given any bank, and it was when banks were handed over to the demanding ones during the last term. But listening to a speech - a dignified president, the government opposers here become frustrated and interrupt. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] That's exactly what I'm about to enter next in my speech, that's the irritability that's in the government position because we're reaching the end of these matters in a way that protects our quality of life permanently. [[Up front.]] A respectable president. What I want to ask you is why. For example, a senator mentioned a plan for the release of a currency school in his case, saying that we are working on the basis of a project taken at the time by the previous government in 2011. I have this plan for the disposal of a currency school in front of me, and there's no way in which I can't do anything about broken banks. It focuses primarily on land cover, and it should then allow other demands and those who want to get out with currency. The present government is adding to that plan and is dealing with the victims of fallen financial companies. What really matters is that we are defending quality of life, defending standard of living, defending payment in the community. Of course, it is not surprising. A senator who made many calls in his speech; he is a follower of doing this, he is opposed, he goes out, and he goes south on his case; he is only frustrated that we are doing this, we are going to be able to deal with the swellingers of the fallen bank with the laws and all supported in the council that had been installed two ways. [[The president calls.]] It's no wonder. paritaprevir Páll's Árnason years are irritated with this, and thus he resorted to wild attacks on fury. þm. Frosti Sigurionsson. [[What's the question?]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u95	A respectable president. That was a very pleasant counterargument and gives much room for an answer. First, there is the reason why the 2011 reimbursement school is not being discussed in the 2011 precipitating program on the simple fact that they were not under control at that time, and therefore following that plan, we detected the situation so that it would be very important to go further. We should take down our broken clothes too, and that's why we put a bill on it. Hv. A senator did not trust to vote with that bill. He did not trust to say yes to controlling the foreign demands. No, he did not trust to say yes to placing his position on the door of foreign demands, or no. In fact, he did not go as far as the Independence Party officials did, leading a representative of foreign demands into the Assembly Hall to help them cry out from the law. I'm gonna give it to him. What matters most now I've forgotten the other factors. A senator asked me about it, but I'll do it this time. [[Take it up: That's enough.]] What was done in March 2012 was laying the basis for the situation that supports their use, and I am very pleased with what has been done on the basis of the National Association's professional adviser to deal with these issues. I'm not going to argue that the advance party screwed up that case. He tried what he could, but he failed, and I'm going to commend the advance team for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u96	A respectable president. You're absolutely right. paritaprevir The Árni Páll Árnason, March 12 of March, prepared for the head of the currency, and the forwarding party gave it a word when it was introduced and submitted at the Federal Bank and then released. [[And how did you pay for it? A senator vote?]] [[Aha, how did the senator pay the vote?]] Still, it was clear that the currency problem was then in place, and he was also present in a way that foreign claimors were handed over at the time before it came to this and that no payment was made. At that time, no analysis was made whether it was reasonable, and since then Iceland has paid $136 billion profit. Right away. paritaprevir The Árni Páll Árnason comes here to attack. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson son of a man for wanting to secure a foreign holding on banks, that's why he's talking about letting foreign vultures control who owns banks? A respectable president. I'm glad to hear it. paritaprevir Árni's Árnason years support and show us here and say that this is a positive step we are taking, but I am certainly only sad about it. paritaprevir The annual report of the Árni Páll Árnason should be made to believe that it is positive that foreign vultures do not have a bank here, as if they were handed over to them during the last term without any diagnostic analysis there for payment and how it would have affected society and had not been subject to the necessary failure of the banking system prior to its operation. Thank you. A senator for commending the forward - to - public company and the action ahead of him. A senator to stop the men, Sigurjónsson the son of Sigurions, and others, who make a wise appeal to try to wind away from the confusion that occurred during the last term. [["Hello."]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u97	A respectable president. It is welcome to consider what happened when banks were taken over by demanding workers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u98	136 billion profits...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u99	It's very interesting to go over it. You see, the government avoided financing them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u100	136 billion profits...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u101	Hv. A senator should see what it has cost the government to finance the National Bank of foreign currency. That is what would have been waiting for the government if the government had kept funding the two new banks. [[Up front.]] It is simply that the conclusion now that these treaties of the government with the foreign claimors, these established agreements of the government with the foreign demands is to show black and white that it was a good decision that the government would not take over the other two banks because it has shown itself that it was very suitable and that it reduced the risk of state funds and the government could never have taken this bank unless it had paid for them in a foreign currency, so it would have added to the problem that had been a problem, not diminished it. [[Up front.]] It is good to have an opportunity to answer this misunderstanding, and it is also of great interest to see how you react. paritaprevir As you note, Einar's Ásmundur Daðason's aces, a barrier has been built for possession on these banks. It has been said to foreigners - here comes the chairman of the Economic and Business Committee, no less - the district overseer of the Agency, the former Prime Minister, the deputy prime minister of the country, and says: "There is no way that foreigners can buy the bank, no way. [[Up front.]] Hold it. Councilmen that this is not to be translated in foreign magazines? Yeah. Foreign buyers are being told: Buying this bank is no way for you to buy it. They've been taken away for our good friends. They have been set aside for those who have supported us and paid for the party fund for years.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u102	That's why you gave for the vultures.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u103	Madam President. It may be right to warn certain parties in the hall that I will likely discuss a little about contracting between the old and new banks of my time, foreign demands, and even mention Ictesave, so I'll ask those who need a sedative to think about getting ahead and taking it now so that, instead of it, they can be further bound. First, I'd like to say how this government has several times in major affairs, such as the great debt of debt and now in dealing with the demands and preparation of the tenets and weeders, has gone out of place in a measure in the pomparies of his political cause, at the expense of the country, because tax money is probably used to pay the bills, instead of finding a duty, and trying to rely on as objective and credible evidence as possible, the Allied and the public information. Sadly, that has not been done. The spring Scorpio in Happe was natural with the endemes when it was displayed over 70 pictures on the wall of the ideal stable tax, reminded of possible placards and stability productions in one cornea, they were made to disappear rapidly again, once it has been discovered, and then became immediately on the day that the government was preparing a whole other way with the demands. On the same day that the beauty show was held in Hörpu, the Office of the Ministry of finance proposed the three living facilities for stability and accompanied by an assessment of the proposals and the approval of a projection committee. It didn't happen in seconds after the press conference ended that it all came into existence, complicated lyrics in English, did it? And when did the Commission have the time to evaluate the proposals, etc.? Things here have not been brought up in line with the reality behind them, regarding government communication with demands, negotiations, negotiations, negotiations at the highest level. A new concept has been invented by the secretary of finance to avoid having to accept contracts or such relationships, called a living conversation. A live conversation has brought the government this way. Now, in many respects, the subject is wise, and the person mentioned here has not changed his view of it. It's about to have a large club that's the stable tax, and that's how you figure it to provide for the farms' problems, as if it could become and clean it up in one piece. On the other hand, if they were to do so, a steady arrangement that would be equally valid for clearing out the grupt and ensuring that this would not adversely affect the payment, status of the nation, and the standard of living in the land, as the above mentioned. This was promised spring. It was claimed that there was an absolute equal approach. But is that so? There is a doubt. When we look deeper at the material being prepared, and I speak not of the government's decoration show, but primarily of the Secret Bank, which is the best benefit we have today to build on, there is something else. When the main text is read, not the summary, the late bank recognizes that instead of cleaning up the whole problem of some 870 billion years, the main text is read. bridge, expected to be more than 700 billion bucks. If money is offered at all, the banks are now in accordance with the stability proposals to pay 379 billion dollars. in stability donations. There's a big difference. However, the stabilising process is now considered to be a number of resources that can be debated as if a state and/or a Sentencedlaki can pay up their recessive loans, which were granted to two of the three banks in 2009. But this is the government's loan. It's not getting anything it doesn't have anyway. The banks will continue to owe it, but in return to the State, they will owe money to foreign claimors or to those holding the letters published by the demands. Is this the operation to be paid for by 74 billion dollars? Why? Or when it comes to recovery in Iceland's Secret Bank, which, of course, had become big anyway. It is by means of such methods that the scope of this stability is inexhaustible. They were grossly raised in the presentation of the government, and I must say, with deep respect for the office of the Secret Bank, I find that sections are controversial to what the Navy now considers this way. I've given two examples, I could name the third. The addition of the New Land Bank's letter to the Old Lands Bank has such a little advantage except for an additional agreement that makes this case a little more convenient for the new Lands Bank to do so, because the old Lands Bank has to do with its contracts. But the length of that letter has been negotiated. The B letter has been paid up, and the large letter has been largely paid down or put away. It remains only about 150 billion satellites, so it is also controversial to count it as a way to work. I find it hard to find a satisfying explanation for the great difference between the stable tax and the one on the table. If we take the stable tax route and treat it in the same way as the government and in part the Sentencing Committee treat the labour agreements, we should expect to add the stable tax to the items listed here to be used. So, shall we add the stable tax 74 billion subsidies from state - to - state bills to new banks? Isn't it? It is as justified in that case as it is in the other. Shall we add the stable tax to better recoverys in the U.S. resource collection? In that case, it is probably as valid as the other, the stability of the tax system is no longer 863 billion, or what it was, the bridge, above 1st. Billions. Then we will have to explain the difference again if we handle both ways in a comparable way. Of course, it should have been done, and I am severely critical that these two routes should not be carefully compared. There's no homework, and it's different to me when the people came here with a transparency and a lack of information, some of which. Third, I want to name what I'm growing worried about, that's the changed timeline in this case. What was in many ways credible in spring if we had been realized was our promise, we were told that before the stability proposals would be paid, before leaving which, first of all, could be made out of the years, the deportations had been offered. There is 300 billion problems, a situation in the New World Translation, in the hands of foreign people. It was also said that the plan for when and how other members of the country, the general public, the company, the pension fund was released from the seas. It's not like this anymore. In this way, the demands for the crew are to go out first, alone, and later, testing how to offer up the deportations and relieve the seas for other people. In that case, at least one person is so impressed that it is not a very practical view of the future. I've seen a credit equal statement from Iceland's Secret Bank up to and down in 1923 where the pension funds are supposed to be 10 billion per year throughout the season. And if paybacks are growing on the basis of the SEKK meeting in the coming years, and the need for investments in the pension fund will be even greater, then these are small benefits, not just for the pension fund and its yield and its risk distribution, but for the Icelandic economy and economic management of this country. It is not a prescription for anything other than a vaccination if these speed limits on the investments of foreign funds - which, of course, are just capitalists who have not been removed - continue with the nation for seven, eight years, and that is a major concern. For example, if the owners of the nation's country's high standing position are making a big difference, and after the stocks have gone out of the economy, which, of course, is a great deal of purity, I am not minimizing, they feel that they are not particularly interested in sharing in auctions and going out on a subversive gang, they say, "No, I'm just gonna wait my money in the economy, I'm going to put them in long - term letters, I'm going to get some excellent fruit and high interest. I'm going to work on the interest between Iceland and the rest of the world and then milk out my income monthly in the form of interest. Then there will be the problem of the future and will not be cleared out at the same time. In many ways, therefore, auctions would have been by far the best. This government hasn't. They died out, and nothing happened for two years on her watch, despite the fact that the government could have an opinion on the case. It is clear that the government's work is being prepared, and it is established by government officials, even though the late bat prepares for work. This was the case in 2011 and would be restored if this government ever formed such a plan. She hasn't. [[Up front.]] She has not, although she has promised her election that she would immediately appear at the beginning of 2013, based on brilliant ideas. The prime minister himself. We were led to believe that this was not a matter then and that it would be done quickly. It hasn't been done. Suppose, then, that the auction of decrepits would not be so successful, and the owners would choose to store most of their money here in the economy of the bait - that would be just a new growth trade. This may lead to weight loss, for a larger portion of the problem would be stored. The late bank itself acknowledges that in the stability process, a part of the problem is stored, not made up in the way it is. That's what he says in several places in his text, e.g. he says on page 6. 8 in their report that two pathways are always capable of dealing with flow problems: reducing or extending their requirements. According to the Secret Bank, and on the basis of stability, both parties do so, and that is exactly what they say. I don't have a precise analysis of in nature how much of the kind of centenarian problem is introduced into the future but clearly part of it. It is extended and explains in part the vast difference between stable taxes and forced contracts. Instead of taking care of all of this right away and cleaning up the centenarian problem, I guess there's a big misunderstanding. Guðmundur Guðundundur Steingrímsson said that there will be a problem with the property of the living that will remain. They needed all their domestic assets and more to pay the stable tax so that the problem had disappeared. Perhaps the only fault was in the law there, and I mentioned it as a possibility to allow the State or the tax to receive the property in various forms, including stocks in the banks to pay the stable tax. That would have been the case, they could have even been. Pay in banks and there'd be no problem with it, Skúli would have accepted it. By that method, the centenarian problem would have been completely cleared up. Both methods, however, have advantages and flaws. I've tried to see if you have a comfortable sense of well - being that the stability and financial commitments under these circumstances are sufficient to make us feel comfortable about the payment of the payment paid to the future, and we can take the next steps lightly. My cares have not ceased, I'm afraid, and some of them have increased. I feel that there is too much of this problem in the future, and I feel that there are just too few grounds for the payment balance in the coming years to the next seven to ten years, including that the pensions are meant to be only 10 billion a year in foreign investments. It's gonna be really hard for us to be in such a tight box. Mr. President. I have spent most of my time in this language as normal, but I cannot deny that it would be nice to have a word exchange, perhaps on later occasions, on such occasions. spokesmen of the forward party, i.e. The commander's Department of Railroads. Prime Ministers of the Son of Davíð Gunnlaugsson, who arrives here and is relatively alone with his own old lawsuit over the lasity of the former government and lent to demandsors and transfers on banks and Icesaves and all that stuff. Looks like we're down in that outfit. Most of all, it remains in the highest. True, the prime minister himself, who is never really here so that it is not put to the test, and then it is difficult to do so. paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason and what? paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir. [[Up front.]] Gjarnan is told that we have handed the banks to foreign demands and, in fact, complained. paritaprevir In the case that the government financed the Lands Bank, Vigdís Hauksdóttir from both, would have published some letter to the old bank that would have been totally unfounded. He would have been, in effect, given the same. Wait, you can't have this in both ways. The reality is that no one was delivered, no one was given anything, but it was not stolen from anyone. This was tried to be made up in accordance with law and order and constitution, so if more assets were transferred to new banks than if their debts had been made, it would have been necessary to improve the difference. [[Wrong.]] [[Up front.]] The misunderstanding, or ignorance, of these candidates for the Agency, as I note that this does not apply to all the candidates, especially to the head of the Economic and Business Committee, it seems that in 2009, the Icelandic legislators have unexpectedly come into a position to steal valuables from law and constitution. But it wasn't like that. This was done exactly in accordance with laws, regulations, and constitutions that will be the property rights, including the legal requirements of the local authorities. It's very simple, isn't it? The bottom line is that the state comes very well from these actions and comes out in financial plus and a great plus if we want to take Iceland Bank into it for a while, he'll come to us. Is that not the case with the government's better - lucked calms in recent years? It doesn't matter. The most important and important thing in the past was that it was possible to trigger a new, functional, and fully funded banking system within 2009, and the economic restoration of Iceland could begin. It was the big thing, and it worked, and it doesn't have to say much more about it. Linkind to demandsmen, do their business, take sides with them against the public interest in Iceland and the nation. This is what these advocates of the Assembly of forwarders still call it bluntly from a speaker's chair, unscrupulous. Make no arguments about the case, for there is no such thing. The argument, if there's anything wrong and that case has been reviewed here. [[Up front.]] The latest and most aggressive action from the beginning may have been to eliminate the law of emergency itself, which set in place the priorities and did so at the expense of general requirements, was to take in all the property of the farms, as it is to show. It is the law of March 12, 2012, that credits us now for forcing the demanding workers to settle all or most of their credit, hopefully. [[Up front.]] So let us ask ourselves, " How did they handle those matters? ' In other words, Mr. President, history has facts about the fact that propaganda, slander, endless treason. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, huh? paritaprevir Ásmundur, Einar of Daðason, who supported the government he's done more than anyone else, are infuriated with no reason and no logic. [[Up front.]] And now all you need is what. paritaprevir Vigdís, the daughter of Hauksdóttir, come here and say, "Icezave, this would be perfect."
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u104	Icezave.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u105	Let's cross Icesave. How is the Icesave business running out? It is running out of property with the Old Land Bank paying its capital completely, 100%, and a couple of 100 billion in general requirements. It is running out of business because the insurance market has made a deal with the British and the Dutch to put all their money on the budget and their interest, all of them. There was now only a small amount left of Icesave 2 and not Icesave 1 if this is the case, except for interest costs that should start paying from the middle of 2016 and that would likely be strong evidence to renegotiate because of the low financial cost of the British and the Dutch all the time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u106	A respectable president. It was a big compliment from a man who needs very much commendation, and I thank you very much. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon for this review, which is in many aspects based on white truth. The first point is that there was not an introduction in the Hatter's stability of one cornea. Both roads were handled well. The stability conditions, as well as the eviction tax, were reviewed. Maybe the senator hasn't been in the hall the whole time, I don't know, but both roads were well presented and introduced in a way that would be considered both. With so little time, I'm going to go on the question and try to answer some of the next series. [[Up front.]] How does the senator feel that the ESA has begun his investigation as a minister? [[The president calls.]] The study focuses on whether it was a government scholarship when it gave the banks overnight to demands.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u107	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir for this answer. The concluding words were precious. When he gave the banks to foreign demands. In other words, they were given. They were given. [[Up front.]] Banks founded with 890 million. K. the foundation, as it takes to set up a small savings fund, and stood unfunded until the results of the contracts were settled between the old and new banks, the demands were raised to them, the state was unable to pay the interest rate, etc. But it's claimed. It is very valuable to have it in the Senate that this is how it looks. paritaprevir Mrs. Hauksdóttir Hauksdottir of this, that the banks were given over, contrary to all the facts. I'm not worried that although ESAs are still studying these matters, I thought it was over, because both the savings and the recycling funds have been investigated, and that I thought I had an organization of the new banks. For a time, there were 12 cases in the ESA study because of the collapse and a variety of government action followed, so even though one case is still under investigation, I would not be impressed with it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u108	A respectable president. It is a pleasure to see the senator ridicule the transfer of these weeds to the demands, this swelling farm. But I shall be informed here that I shall present at a council meeting of candidates for the morning of a concierge that includes an investigation of the personalization of the later banks, a study that turns to the transfer of banks to demanding workers overnight without any merit. Here was the senator of the National Bank, who got very involved in the Icesave case. Happily, the Icelandic nation had won the Icesave case with the EFTA Court. Here, the senator criticizes the fact that it is being put into this stability program. This is because the bond was taken in a foreign currency that was not available in the country at the time. Thus, simple things are being done here. Finally, I would like to ask: Who was the policy of greener for the 2013 General election in the matter of the demands of the crew, where the Agency was accused of deception and lying about the possibility of applying these requirements to the demands? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u109	Madam President. Our policy was, and it had long been, and it had been in effect that the prices of foreigners in the economy were absolutely inevitable. This was started in 2010. It began to purchase decommissioned assets into the country like the Avens trade, and it was beginning to tender on a highly demolition gang. It was assumed that some form of passage taxation or other form of taxation would be affected when these assets were released from the farm. In order for it to be even. slowly we moved old banks' properties into our oceans. Hv. A senator needs nothing more than to study what was going on, and he was in action during his last term to see that that the government had absolutely clear that national preparations could not divide these huge crowns into a full - scale gang. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u110	Now, tell me the truth.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u111	It's simply this way. Madam President. No matter what. A senator here uses absurd and unfounded letters that will help me answer my answers based on the best knowledge I have on these matters. President. Don't you think it's okay to keep it that way?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u112	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon for a well - and - substance talk. The candidates are so excited that I have a feeling of guilt. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I'd like to review the 2013 election campaign when they were supposed to deliver over 300 billion of them out of the hand of a vulture. [[Up front.]] The billions became 80 and came from the Kingdom Fund. I thought that the Senator's review of complex and vague information on this matter was good, and I'd like to ask the senator: Is it that the large intermediate transfer to the homes is, in fact, chosen by this stabilisation process, to go to the vultures themselves, that are those who are the winners of the election in 2013?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u113	Madam President. I've been trying to stay close to the matter on the basis of the whole operation of thinking that this is about solving the balance problem. And yet, our right to take such measures, whether the stable taxes or to force them to rely on stable donations, in Iceland, on the economic reality that we cannot divide these assets at full resolutions in a few losses, it cannot be done. And in its power and because we need and have the right to work out of the oceans and get ahead when we're in the way of it and it would be up to the law and constitution to set such advantages. What I'm mostly checking is whether this is sufficient. But I must answer a question. A member of the council, in part, referred to doubt as having sufficient stability proposals, which on the other side, of course, means that the demands are being carried out on unnecessaryly good terms or advantages.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u114	Madam President. Thank you. Senator. I'm just going to say that I'm skeptical and skeptical about this matter, especially in view of the fact that this has not provided clear information. All data are needed to try to figure out the results of these habitats. I felt that the senator came into it in his own matter, and I agree that there is nothing to indicate, except that the stability of taxation would have been better for an Icelandic population. In fact, business agencies estimate that the currency head will cost about 80 billion a year. Now we're going to extend this currency capital for about seven to eight years and put the Icelandic pension fund, business and home in a really serious fix.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u115	Mr. President. It is also the case that you have to overcome the underlying factors. If we take these stability contributions and look at the 379 billion payments they're actually inside of both Iceland Bank and Adonion Bank at full price, that they'll be selling in full honor. It is one of the things to be highly critical of this, that governments should not attempt to measure for themselves the worth of their chances of being or becoming and putting them down and saying, "No, we don't take it completely. We don't count the banks unless we multiply 0.7 or 0.8. Will the banks be likely to sell fully today or in the weeks or months that follow? Is it likely that someone's walkin' in and he's paying 185 billion for Iceland Bank? I'm sorry, I have to say no. One reason is that the bank has a lot of its own money, and of course it needs to be. They set out at a high level of financial gain and then made a fine profit. At the same time, however, the bank's basic operation is weak, and the results over the past few years have mainly been based on the value of collections. [[The president calls.]] Such a bank is not likely to sell at full price.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u116	Madam President. This was a strong and effective speech by a former financial minister, who, when men broke through the worst cracks that have ever been over the Icelandic economy since the Republic began. I felt that in the early part of the talk, there was trouble. A senator is very well united in the doubts we have about the conclusions being discussed. Especially did I notice his attention on the disposition, fate, and consequences of the deportation. Now it's time to recall that all governments, including these, who have been seated since 2010, have specific timelines; first rub down the demasks and herd them through auctions and then go to activate the property of the farms. It seems now that this timeline has been screwing around, and it seems that this auction has been screwed up by a highlander. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: What does he think he will choose? Second, what does he think may be the result of changing the order of the year, since it creates certain moral problems for the owners of the land to wait, especially in the light of proclamations of the highest degree? Governments that up ahead are underreaching the currency burglars now during the next loss and months?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u117	Madam President. There is real reason to consider these factors. We haven't had much of a discussion or observation with him, although I don't know if the Economic and Business Committee has. But let us consider some facts. This year, from the millennium to this time, foreign people have moved into the economy of 50 billion dollars. and bought them stocks and bonds. Why? Because Iceland's interest levels are so high, and it's so cheap and low in international interest that it can be achieved by bringing money into the economy and bringing it here. These are men doing today, in the head of currency, with these properties. True, this may be a new investment, but it is not everything. Why would those with financial resources not think, " It's pretty good to stay here? ' Then people would have to put some very narrow advantage in what they could do with their money other than move them out of the country to a decommissioned gang. The module was that there were three options available in the auction, that would be tying money for a relatively long time in until paper, government paper, etc., it would be going out, otherwise it would be locked in interestless closed accounts. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u118	Madam President. This is 300 billion dollars. A problem that lies in these high-end nationals. Hv. A senator has noted that it is as if they do not assume how to neutralize these crowns. There are many indications that their owners may be more comfortable with keeping them in Iceland. It is quite clear that the government has somehow made some sort of defect or error by not completing this matter, as she declared she would agree to do when the action was presented here at Hörpa's famous meeting. I don't think we can accept things that we don't fully understand. It is noted in the talks of those who have spoken from the government that they have not considered this on the committee. This point, as well as the fact that there does not seem to be any statistical analysis that makes a link between these two ways, it leads to asking questions. A senator: Is he not right in taking this matter back into the committee and examining both before the bill is finally completed? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u119	Madam President. Only about the wax trade. I mentioned this 50 billion - number that has entered the economy since the end of the year, starting something to apply to it last year. The second bank has bought 200 billion dollars a year, and it has not been the same. He has shown a firm desire to try to keep his progress strong, and the growth trades began to run back, which is correct and related, yet his own growth increases have contributed to the restoration of these developments. If there's something we're badly burnt of, it's this. What I'm mostly wondering is if there's a chance we can raise up and get into the future more trouble than people were hoping, e.g. When this was being discussed in the spring. Yes, of course, I thought it would be very good if a financial and business committee could take the time to, among other things, consider things like this. It was about spring answers that this would be achieved closely with the Economic and Business Committee. Little has been said of the fact that there has been no consultation in the transverse Commission on the delinquency, which is most unfortunate and reprehensible. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u120	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator and other members of Parliament are very much fond of material, interesting, and enjoyable talks. I'd like to ask you what. A senator into this interest. As you know, at least in this town, it is so that when the growth difference between Iceland and foreign countries becomes great, it becomes a practical thing to borrow here, borrow abroad, and make this, what to say, not to be counterfeit, but to the wrong level of the crown. Hv. A senator criticizes that this is a risk of recurrence, and in fact, it appears to be back in some respects again. See what? A senator predicts that there are other ways to prevent that development? I've seen this problem appear to be a bit deeply entrenched, and in fact, it is inevitable to be in the south bank interest policy, and particularly, in this case, that people are using classical economics, which applies to millions of communities in a tiny economy. [[The president calls.]] How can you tell? A senator envisions that the problem can be avoided?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u121	Madam President. In effect, this is a technical problem of a small open economy and is naturally intertwined with the discussion of an independent currency and the potential for less economic systems for self - currency. What seems to me to be happening is that foreign investors and balls see that the economy in Iceland has grown strong, that currency is high here, and that the country is expected to be a significant credit rating. They also see that there is nothing growing in the trees, for example in Europe's promising fruit options, such as the situation there, and start thinking, "Hey, don't Iceland become a pretty good alternative to feed money?" That's what's happening. With such experience, we are very burned because quick money comes in can also quickly, if not seared. What can you do? Of course, there is some taxation. At least for 20 years, I've been a great amateur on Tobin taxes that broke down these spaghetti capital movements, which are no more than a million problems.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u122	A respectable president. Tobin tax is an interesting measure in itself. But I'd like to go below. Another idea, I don't realize how crazy it is, for earlier today the question was, What if we simply had much lower control interest? What if the harbor bank took it on its own to reduce the growth rate dramatically? I'm asking why. A senator who believes that the effect would be because I cannot see how to fight inflation and expand with high interest when the same high ones seem to be the cause of thawing and in some respects inflation. I wondered why we don't lower down, why it's not the best, even though it may not be quite consistent with key economic theories, which may seem to be not very successful in this small economy anyway. How would that be? A senator adopts such ideas, reducing the rate, and who does he think would be the result?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u123	Madam President. The problem is always when people face conflicting situations with economic management. If we take the wax trade and the risk of it, I believe that the cost of success cannot be strengthened. If anything is, I'm worried it's already been too strong. We still need a very favorable chance for the export branches to foster our foreign debt, etc. At the same time, however, poor gangs are attractive to foreign investors, for buying the crowns is cheap. - Objection. What we need is not necessarily what is needed in this case will help us to cope with the growth trade successfully. Then to the interest. Is it not true that the cow's ban on growth will greatly reduce the growth and increase in the interest of the sheep here? On the other hand, we may be struggling with sensibilities and inflation. I'd like to see the growth down, it's very expensive and difficult to have to have this high level of real interest here, but my conclusion is that the Navy can't handle it alone. For example, he receives help from the state, which, instead of making it difficult for him, by means of a more conservative and reasonable government policy, makes it easier for the Sustainers to wrestle with. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u124	President. The bill here for discussion, the bill for a change in income tax law, a law on special taxes on financial companies and financial law, a bill related to the rape contracts of the pair of dead financial companies, is about a great deal of reading. To tell you the truth, I think logical support and comments to the bill itself, and the laws are in such a way that I can't remember seeing such a weak argument for any matter. This bill is the basis for a tax charge, i.e. to pay a tax charge or to cut taxes on the demands of the fallen banks on their forced agreements. Second, regarding a clear warrant for the demands to agree with the labour agreements, the number of parties required to agree with the labour agreements required so far is reduced. Clearly, the bill is presented or suggested that the officers of fallen banks take the initiative and their wish. Although it's moved here by the highest. There is no other way to read from the bill but that it does so on behalf of demanding banks. [[The point is, what's all this nonsense?]] Now I'll go over it a little bit and argue what I've said here on the nature of the bill. In comment we're going to write the bill, we're going to say, by permission of the President: ▪ First, a change in taxation is proposed for the taxation of interest due to bonds previously employed as business banks or savings, published in their own name as a force in full agreement with their demands. In addition, any interest in such debts, including losses, is suggested to be avoided by the real owner of a bond that does not have an unlimited tax obligation in Iceland. It's pretty clear. It goes on, with President's permission, on the advising from tax responsibilities and payment of deduction taxes: The concept is based on the premise that they no longer provide the so - called stability of their assets. They bring forth their goods out of the seas: there is no end of them, that they may bring their goods out of the head of money. Go on says: Since they will be free of the restrictions laid down in the aforementioned currency laws under a confirmed pact, they will be free of charge. According to representatives of the tenants of fallen financial companies, they have received information that the largest of the enterprises in the outside and innuendo due to the publication of bond bonds in Europe will not remain unmistakably included in the registration of bond bonds published by lawyers who previously served as business banks or savings, where they would be obliged to retain a tax deduction tax under current legislation, which may involve both notifications as well as possible other responsibilitys to the Icelandic tax authorities. Such obligations, according to their peers, do not indicate that their activities and therefore do not intend to register and care for the management of bond bonds published by the above laws unless there is a change in legislation. Those who once worked as business banks or savings do not consider themselves to be able to keep their account of the settlements without the services offered by the above - mentioned organisations, but it can be assumed that, following confirmation of the fixed agreements, several thousand foreign workers will receive letters of debt from the attorneys who once worked as business banks or savings as part of the wealth of a pledge contract. On this point it continues with the permission of the president: The EU budget, on the other hand, includes tax-designing regulations and changes in the regulations relevant to financial management procedures in wear and wear. And yet later, it says: The work of the bill had a consultation with the tax manager. Also considered were the various indications from the fact that representatives of the fact are being made up of money companies. This text, which I read here, repeatedly points out and repeatedly that there is a request for a legal adjustment here at the General Assembly in their favor. It is almost as if logical support is in the history section, i.e. that something has been heard, that there might be something that can't happen if the law isn't changed. It says: "Consequently with the representatives of the rovers who are killed by financial companies to which the information is received, they are quoted directly - ◆. What information did they get? Who gave them that information? What interests are behind it? In this comment with the bill, it also says: "Such duties fall, according to the peers,...However again the fragments are referred to. It is reasoned, according to their peers, as they have heard, according to their information, according to the representatives of the reefs, etc. This bill does not seem to be transferred by the highest. Iceland's secretary of finance, except for the interests of demands. There is no comment with the bill, as far as this joint is concerned, where you can give reasonable reasons for being at the top. The secretary of finance is taking the interests of others other than the demands of a lawsuit: ▪ According to the demands, ▪ according to the requirements, ◯ according to the information received by the demands of the claim, ◯ Then they do not consider themselves to be available, and then they can be expected for the other and this, as the comment puts it. There is now all the evidence behind what is being presented here. With regard to the latter, to clear the claimaries to agree to the anxious agreements, the bill says, by permission of presidents: However, it is suggested that, on the other hand, a percentage change behind the approval of a non-employment bill by sum is proposed, and, on the other hand, the two governments have the authority to make a suggestion that at a demanding conference, only the demands registered on the date specified in the bill that a financial company contract has the authority to vote for a bill to be forced contract. This is further reasoned in comments in the following way, by permission of the president: ▪ During convergence treatment of a bill that became a law, No. 59/2015, it was observed that recovery rates may be low in the off-label financial companies. A member of the Committee noted that 95% of the budget's votes may need to be accepted. It was pointed out that such a high proportion of forced agreements, although the majority of the demands are acceptable to him and are beneficial for all the demands, with a small lower proportion being given a negative to much of the demands, etc. In addition to this, by permission of the President: After approval of the law, there have been indications that the above roof may be too high, in view of the unprecedented number of demands that have described the demands of the currently broken financial companies. Has, for example. it has been pointed out that in some areas large numbers of small and medium-sized workers have been received from demands that have not since been broken and are unclear whether they are involved in the labour agreements. In view of the rich national interests that are at stake in financial enterprises, and as this is part of a budget decommissionment program, it agrees to lower the upper roof to 85%, allowing it to weigh the interests of the smaller demands and those making more of the living. It is expected that the above roof can be transferred to 85% to help with the preparation of a labour agreement (e.g., etc.). Once again, that's the same logic. When I see a change in the budget more part of a financial and business committee, which actually goes further - although this has to do with more changes in this, I ask: What interests are being cared for there? What tips were given? Whose advice did this need to be fixed? This is of primary benefit to large demands at the expense of my demands. It still refers to the existence and root of this bill here, that it is submitted to the wishes of the demands and, above all, the larger demands. This is to bring them back to life on short terms because of the fallen Icelandic bank and, in particular, the major demands. The floor is reduced to allow larger demands that meet the 60% threshold and justly more than that to be agreed to contracts while the interests of my demands are being placed in the table. From reading this bill and what I've been doing here and the logical support given to the bill, the changes, in its comments, it is possible for you to claim that there are some kind of political subsidiary which, in this way, makes this case so clear to others, so clearly the commissions, in these cases in the fallen banks, can be claimed to be of particular benefit to the interests of their living, foreign requirements that have gone under various names to this level, especially for those who are defending this element and offering it, and that it be paid later than this day. In that respect, it's a bad bill. Although only in that case, it's a bad bill, i.e. in view of its roots and for what purpose it is given. For the overall case, i.e. the size of the thing - it's just one smell - it's very hard to figure out what's really happening there. It has been published in detail, many of the people who are trying to figure out what the proposals for the stability of the quips actually turn around, that once these have been analyzed and grouped from repeated numbers, groups of income that would have been entered into the state no matter what route they would have taken, whether a tax route had gone or a means of stability. It's very difficult for players to figure out what's really happening there. Yet, people have tried to do so. If the government's ministers asked what they were doing there, they would be glad to shrug their shoulders and say, "It's not our way, we don't know anything about it, it's just some team in town to negotiate the resolution of the weeds, it doesn't concern the government. They may dismiss the matter. When they're partners and directors of the board, the highest. Secretary of the budget and the highest. However, the prime minister, meets at his regular meetings in the Harp, which are often displayed in the range of 80 to100 corneas. For example, cornea 14 of the last meeting shows that the government has presented a comprehensive solution to the release of capital waste. The proposal for a change in various layers due to emissions of capital waste is discussed in the cornea 16. The idea of a change in various laws is discussed in cornea 17 because the government is now in charge of the General Assembly. In one word, they say there's nowhere to go. This is something fighting through their window. From time to time, they keep a press conference, build a cornea, and speak for the language, but in the other word they say they don't know what's going on, they have no access to it, there's just some team in the town that's making up the swellinghouses and a contract for forced contracts. Now, more closely than that, their forced agreements focus on how foreign demands will be released from the country with their possessions and on how much will remain, and on what remains in the country of the crowns no man has placed in the land, and no foreign resident wants to own. There is only one count in the data that governments have distributed and presented in their endless media meetings and corneas shows, that is, at 379 billion that are supposed to be the stability of the swellingers of banks, what they're going to leave here in Iceland instead of getting their other possessions and taking them away and never coming back here. I went over it in my inquiry to the highest degree. Yesterday's secretary of finance how this figure is found, how it is divided, 379 billion, with only 8 billion in cash available. Only 8 billion in free money and 371 billion, possibly, up to a maximum, in all kinds of property that is most widely listed. The largest possession specified is the Iceland Bank, which was placed there at 185 billion dollars. What remains is undisclosed property and demands, and what they are is not further explained. It is very difficult for us here to understand this and also for the general public in the country who do not have such a good chance of research and who do not have access to matters we have. That's not what they said. It was not said that the United States would have possessions that could not be sold. I'll take Iceland Bank as an example. For three years, since 2012, in July 2012, there were, as far as I know, the first news is being delivered that Iceland banks should be sold. There were investors from the Middle East and China who wanted to own Iceland Bank. It would have been signed by a declaration of sale in Iceland Bank. More recently, in January 2015, reports in the press that Glitnis has been sold to 95% of its share in Iceland banking were well along. Based on the value of parts of Glitnis in Iceland, even up to 150 billion dollars could come. for the property, that interest is so great that even this $150 billion can be obtained. This is an example of interest, I want to mean foreign people at Icelandic banks. He was no match for the collapse. No foreign person was really interested in obtaining a bank in Iceland. It was tried to do some bank record in the year 2000, when these same categories that now govern the country were privateizing the banks, some German bank, or savings that was said to be interested in buying the Saver's Bank, I remember. He knew nothing of it, but his name was slippery. That's the next thing I found out that a foreign bank was likely to buy Icelandic banks. There's no interest in that. The fact that they have not been able to sell Iceland banking has been made clear by break - up management and the proponents of disintegration that they have been able to sell Iceland because they didn't want to spend this money, even during the same days as in the same period as men have since declared a great deal of interest in buying. They don't want to buy it and deposit it in this foreign currency. A respectable president. I'm getting shorter in my speech session. I've considered the bill that's being discussed here, and I've expressed my opinion about it and for what purpose it is given, the reasons and the reasons for it. There's a financial minister who's gonna give us the right to accept this legal bill and make it a law. I don't think it's a kind of loser for the transfer of this bill. There is not much dignity over the fact that the secretary of finance, or any minister, brings in a bill of law with the weak reasonings presented there and the language tools found in the headlines and comments given by the bill. I'm going to go over other matters about the resolution of the swelling farms, forced contracts against the past, and hopefully will do so in my second speech later tonight. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u125	A respectable president. I can't bear to answer the objections I felt. A senator would present himself to the entire committee, but possibly especially to me who had a story on this matter, when referred, as he did, the political paramours who bring this matter into the chamber. I'm not going to go into some phrase at what? A senator in this regard. He refers to an article referred to those who handle demands that are, of course, stakeholders in this matter. No one's gonna hide it. It is unusual to consult the viewpoints of all those who have interests of every subject presented here. I'll be happy to say that the committee was contacted by officials from broken governments, specialists from different directions, government officials, government officials, and others on this matter. To insist that this bill is prepared by the demands, it is nothing more than an extremely insignificant presentation to be sent to them. I don't know what you're talking about. That may be the problem. A senator may know that they are employed, the left movement over a green supply may recognize it, including from the time he was in command of the Department of Employment and Development at his own time, where the Ministry has admitted to serving a bill in this chamber, composed by stakeholders in town six months before. That issue was a matter of great financial interest to the authors of that bill. I only refer to the 29th November 2014 news coverage. [[The president calls.]] In this case, however, it is of course important to view interests and viewpoints, mainly viewpoints, from different angles. This was done in this case and will no doubt be done on any of the issues involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u126	President. There's a big misunderstanding against him. A senator, i.e. I wasn't quoting the Commission's opinion of the Economic and Business Committee. Actually, I didn't mention it as a single word. I was quoting the law bill itself that, as far as I know, was moved by the highest. The Secretary of finance for Bjarni Benediktsson. All the texts I read and reasoned, and gave reasons for my speech are a direct quote to the song bill itself. I didn't have time to go to the committee opinion of the greater part. But I cannot help but repeat what I said before in terms of that when the text of the bill is read according to the representatives of broken-ups, they think they can't move, they can be assumed, etc., seat their property, all logical support is for the taxable part of the bill, in comments to the bill, obtained in the case of requirements. There is no other evidence to support the section of the Law than that of the demandsors, i.e. All the weapons in the chest are picked up there. To that I can stand by referring to the law bill itself, for I have not had time to discuss the committee's opinion and was not witnessing to that earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u127	A respectable president. I take this observation into consideration, but I make this decision even if my comments on this matter are equally appropriate. This is made clear in the bill, as is shown in the committee opinion. The bill itself says that the purpose is to create conditions here so that the lawgiver, the Icelandic state, can offer realistic options, to end this matter with a forced contract. During the summer council, it was reported that there were two possible routes to live. One is the stable tax, the other way is by way of the contract agreement. In order to follow the second course, there must be a realistic possibility that the demands of the workers should conclude matters with a contract. Now it is that the general rule of bankruptcy rights applies only to some part of the subject. There are some specific rules that apply to dissociative financial companies in the law of No. 166/002, there's a special section on that. This chapter has been changed many times after the financial breakdown because, of course, people are faced with unprecedented situations and have had to deal with events that arise at various levels of the matter, not specifically the case, the rules had been changed long before we saw what was going on with the foreign demands. This should not surprise anyone. With regard to the fallen financial companies, the rules have only been unformed, vague. I've had to deal with it, and I'm gonna let myself claim that this is definitely not going to be the last change in the rules of broken financial companies. I don't think so. They would be prepared to reevaluate them, and later, once the dust has settled, to observe these rules for a complete review.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u128	A respectable president. It is not much to add a previous answer, as if there were no particular questions to me regarding my speech in the second answer to the question. Senator. You're right. A senator says, there was an unprecedented situation in Iceland and it has been since collapse. The economic breakdown in Iceland is not an example. It is unique, and hopefully it will never occur again, neither with us nor with other nations. Hence, there have been adjustments in the rules and corrections needed to work out. However, this is a bill, which, as I said earlier, seems to take only the interests of foreign demands, which are being met by their demands and wishes for a change in the Council, more or less of the narratives received from them. The information has been received, according to the partners, that they think they are not moved, etc. It's just that there's not a good reason for changing the law. When changing the law, when presenting a bill to make a new law, it is always good to ask ourselves: " What is the point of changing the law? What evidence is there? When the evidence, like the ones presented here, is presented in comments on the bill being as poor as it really is, supported by as bad data, bad information, and history, it is hardly acceptable at first to submit it to the General, and even less to agree with them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u129	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir To Björn Valur Gíslason for a meaningful and interesting talk. I'm going, with the permission of the President, to quote the committee's opinion. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, who, in turn, was the first-adjusted senator, says there: Then the government has chosen to have little consultation on the whole case, except at the last stages, in spite of the wonderful promise of something else. Thus, it is difficult for the government to avoid making comments on the government's work ethic in this regard, in which overemphasis is put on the conclusion of the issue under the most rapid investigation, although it is clear that some technical facts are still unsolved and unsolved and insufficient data have been submitted. Even the marketing of the outcome seems to have been more emphasis on the market than on informing the government and the public in the country adequately. Those words are very heavy, and they are told of a grand head of a political party in a very big business for the Icelandic race. It is clear that this case has been established until December 31th, then it has had to be solved, broken, so that the stable tax does not land on it, so we still have less than two months to go. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: What does he think is the reason why we are in such a hurry to the council as long as we have enough time but obviously lack so much information? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u130	A respectable president. Most of the time, when things are rushed through the council, it's because they want to avoid discussion, and that's a long way to think. They want to avoid reasoning, avoid opening issues, take time at the council, and even get the attention of the people. I think that's why people want to drive this case a little fast through the council. I don't think any senators are alone, that's true of all those who have discussed these matters. I quote the Invenence Party, I quote the press, I quote those who have written articles on this very matter for many years, who now complain that when the government comes and announces that there is some endpoint in the case, that there has been some agreement on things, there is no answer to what the agreement really is, but are presented here and there are large tents with large numbers, 850, 1200, 500, and so are not allowed questions. Rather than answer questions, officials take over or staff and introduce what is on the cornea. That's not acceptable. This is a huge deal, this is the biggest case we've ever dealt with. We have the right to information. We're here to demand information. When we have the opportunity to discuss matters at the council like this bill, we should take our time in it in an effort to open it as we can, reason it out from the data we have, and demand more data. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u131	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I agree with him. I think this case is being accelerated because there is no will for the government to reason it out. I don't know what motivation lies behind it, but I remember, as others have also mentioned, that when these issues were introduced into the Harp with a sound band, the main emphasis was on a stable tax. And we believed it was the way to go, or at least it should be used with full force to move forward to a good conclusion if the stability process would have to be carried out. It was soon discovered that the stable tax was just a blunder. Maybe that's what special candidates are afraid to talk around, i.e. that the conclusion presented here in June, or when it was, is just not as practical as men wanted it to be. I don't sit on a financial and business committee and actually trust my agent there, huh? paritaprevir Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir, very well, but we're here to make a decision on a huge interest matter. As a senator, I believe in no way do I have evidence in my hands in order to pay a vote. One of our better senators, huh? paritaprevir Katrín, daughter of Jakobsdóttir, is here showing that there are still unsolved opinions, unsolved opinions, and insufficient data. The members of the Economic and Business Committee are complaining about this in their minority masks, and what about the rest of us who are not sitting at the meetings that should have been illuminating? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u132	President. That's exactly what happened. A senator who was told that in ◯Harpus last summer, one of them, was told and claimed that the decision had been made to tax the swelling. I don't think they said it was in the meeting. I put myself under all of this, the presentation, and I had the opportunity to do it. But I'm now skeptical when it comes to such matters that I decided to scratch my way through all the corneas, I can't remember how many they were anymore, they were too many I remember, you were losing focus when you were tired. However, when I reached the cornea 57, I noticed everything on the same day that the deal was made. There was no tax. There's been a deal. And because I don't have much faith in myself, I phoned a friend and sent e - mail to see if anyone would agree with me. No one had realized this until then. So there was no stable tax. It was just a blunder. It was a show. It was the eve of the eve of the espionage. They've already been negotiated. In fact, it has been observed after the time had already been negotiated. Therefore, when new data are submitted and new meetings are held and new hundred corneas are presented with understandable suspicions, and this is to be done by humans. We are to be suspicious and critical of matters of this magnitude. But we should also insist that governments do not close these matters in their rooms, that they are discussed openly. This isn't political. This is a parapolitic language. We have every right to have it, every one of us. We are to be dismembered as to what property is involved, what is needed, what is needed, and what is being given to each person. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We're not supposed to end this before. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u133	A respectable president. As mentioned, this is a very specific case in which the government asks for the General Assembly that it relaxes the requirements of foreign demands, loosens the bonds of foreign demands for which they have been bound so that they can take advantage of the gap that will be opened and leaked from the stable tax approved on spring days and would have a much more efficient result both for the state of Iceland and for the payment of the land and its entire economy. The way this is being opened varies over a few years translates for the Icelandic economy according to economist in Invenge about 400 billion emissions that will obviously have a significant impact on our economy. Of course, it is somewhat unusual for the lawgiver to go out of his way to change the law and to compromise the requirements in order to avoid tax that the same lawgiver has recently agreed to pay. Hence, even in view of the amount of money involved, there is good reason for the General Assembly to be very careful about the arguments presented in this matter. As we have seen, we have this strong position against the fallen bank population and against the foreign demands of the laws given during the last term of the left movement's reign of the Green Mission and the Conspiracy. It came to me on March 12 as president of the Economic and Business Committee to deliver a bill prepared by the Council of the United States to take foreign demands under the head of currency and to forbid by law that their funds would be transferred from the Icelandic Economic History unless there was a special agreement. That law was given at great speed throughout the council. I think I've spoken to her at the time. 4 In the afternoon, she was fixing them by midnight. Sometimes it has been noted that the present - day groups of national administrations, the forward - and - independent category, did not support the bill when it came here, and in fact, a second band opposed it. I think it has to be said to make sure that in the fast payment of the case through the council, it might not have been possible for the members of the Congress to be expected by the move-and-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go team. Their position must be understood in the light that they have simply not been aware of how intense Iceland's hold was in the settlement of foreign demands by this legislation. Nevertheless, the U.S. Senate was able to speed up the matter over three discussions, and it was successful, and it is a reason to thank for their solidarity and for the important changes made in the law in the treatment of the council, for it was observed in the treatment of the case that in the original bill, there was a crisis to the national constitution on the scale of legal recovery. It had recently been passed on to the Supreme Court, which turned to the legalization of foreign loans, where the original Sellar Bank had been judged illegal in the case of legal recovery. Therefore, there was good reason to look to the precautions that were presented in the treatment of the matter, as well as to see that if legalized had been legalized, no legal rights had been firmly established by law, and several other grounds gave the council every reason to be careful and careful about the procedure. With the exception of the money in foreign currency, which was already accumulated in the accounts of abroad, these seas in a foreign requirement were made legalized in that they have stood undisputed for three and a half years, no one has been suing the legislation, all in favor of the legislation, and it ensures that it is in the hands of the Allied Council whether and how the demands of the country are truly released by their money, foreign currency, and then what they are to receive in exchange for the Icelandic crowns they own. Now you might think it's something about taking money from demands. This is not in such a way that those who listen to the discussion are aware of this. It's simply about these 1,200 billion dollars. In the United States there is simply no money available in Iceland to pay for these Icelandic dollars, perhaps equivalent to 8 billion euro or similar dollars. It is similar to what men were offering in Eastern Europe earlier in years far more beneficial exchanges for foreign currency if they could get rid of their own against it. Thus, it is said to argue with foreign demands on what is truly a success in the Icelandic Czar, and it is clear that this is not the registered public success. There is simply no value in the country to pay for these registered sources of Icelandic dollars. These are simply Icelandic crowns that have been printed, and there are no currency in return. How important it is, then, that the arrangement be handled with extreme care! It is quite clear that the foreign demands are of great benefit in terms of making contracts. The benefits are not primarily from releasing the Icelandic dollars they have here and receiving it as a currency but are far more beneficial in getting the property of a foreign currency in the nest, of course, that is much greater than those of the people around here. But it's important for Iceland that we don't promise more money for these Icelandic dollars than we can pay. Then there is a special reason for us to examine how this can affect Iceland's financial balance over the next few years, especially in view of the fact that in his sixth review report in June the World Bank of Bank said that here in Iceland a great deal of optimism about delinquency was involved. But in real life, it would not be a major failure, and this could reduce the pay raise and the increased business halls that will be involved. Of course, when we have a recent warning from an international agency specializing the economy, we should listen very carefully because it would not be the first time that we would be on an unrealistic basis for too optimistically considering our ability to use the Icelandic crown once again. In the past, we have outdone ourselves by underestimated the situation by overemphasizing the possibility of escaping the crown from its head, with disastrous consequences for the nation's preparation. When the debt balance of the Council has now calculated - and is, of course, uncertain because it is predicted about the future as if all the changes in the future in the economy - are first negative about one twenty-eight billion, and we need to get out of the country only by getting our pensions out of the seas, then, of course, is there still a greater reason to ask: Is such a solution that is prepared to continue with life's financial resources, the ever - increasing need, and the need to get out of the country with some of our pensions and get out of the seas? There is reason to ask, for there are great interests here. The predictions of this stage are also based on current economic conditions in which oil prices are low, fish prices are low, goods, goods, and various other meters and important parameters for the Icelandic economy are more positive. Of course, everything that may turn into such things in worse ways during the time of prophecy will have to do with the worse. You also have to put a question mark on why it should be taken uncertainly, such as stocks that no one knows what valuables are, demand of the others and these parties, stocks of other companies on the market, instead of simply letting the swollen pay the tax but taking care of yourself to sell the stocks, collect the requirements, or other things needed to make this value. Why is the wealth of the Kingdom to take on this mediated role? Of course, there is concern that there is some special interest in these negotiations that have stood between the government and the demands, even though it may be said, to get into these stocks, especially because the situation has changed since that this plan was introduced in spring by this contract and until finally agreed to take the case back into the council is changed so that the government receives the stock in Iceland Bank. It is a matter of over and over here, but we also need to ask, in what way the possession of Arion's bank has entered these talks. I remind you of news recently reported on the fact that the stock market has started some sort of conversation about selling a part of that property to a particular party in Iceland, but not in an open general public outlet, and you can ask if there is any part of what's going on here. A respectable president. I agree primarily with those who have said in the discussion that the key questions on the subject are sadly not yet answered. Why should not the law simply be kept unchanged, i.e. Do not lay down the favors for the international demands that are being proposed here, and simply let the stable tax fail? There's nothing to stop it. The stable tax was applied under certain conditions, in a certain legal environment, and there is nothing in my mind against the fact that this law is unchanged. If so, the foreign demands either release themselves from the stable tax under these circumstances or not. In fact, there is nothing that calls for the legislatator to come to the last stage of the situation, giving some extra attraction to avoid taxation. Some have said that the taxation is uncertain. Let's not rule out that there would be any fault with it before the courts, but it is to consider that, first of all, we will see a court-oriented position in it relatively soon, because the Treaty on stability tax is legalized on quick treatment of problems that turn to him and that is used before Icelandic courts. This is an Icelandic financial issue. It will not be settled in international courts or in foreign courts, which were concerned about the previous issues of the disaster. We know that we can trust Icelandic courts, not to be biased in their judges, but simply to abide by Icelandic law. It has repeatedly confirmed a wealth of legal records for taxation. Even if some faultfinding might be involved in the implementation of the tax, it is difficult to imagine that the results of such controversy would ever be worse than the agreement that the demands have now been offered. Therefore, it seems that the only thing that could happen within the next 18 months is that this problem continues to improve and can hardly be called a substantial uncertainty about waiting 18 months after the final outcome in these cases. The second question then is: Are we in a position to do so, confident that in the next few years, our export work here will result in 400 billion leftovers that we can prioritize to the task of paying for these contracts? According to the Sveinn Valfells, economist at Inveffence, these conditions and the various ways in which they are opened to the demands that they take 400 billion in foreign currency in exchange for their inadequacies or unrepencilable currency. We will then keep in the core stocks of banks, and nearly 200 billion books will be published by Iceland Banks and similar numbers in Arazon banks, but the value of which is unknown and what is to come out of it. Of course, the government's owner's possession in Iceland may create problems, apart from the fact that any individual has long been confronted by the international demands that are extremely well connected with international financial markets, in all the continents of the world for many years, with some investor who was sufficiently risky to be interested in buying either the Bank of Iceland or Anion Bank, and there has simply no such person found in the world. What are the value of banks that no one in the world wants to buy, unless the local people for a dollar are very doubtful. I would like to encourage all economic and business committees and members of Congress to access all the core data. I believe there is a shortage of data here similar to that in the Icesave case when data folders were submitted by memos and conferences, reports, letters exchange and other such items. I think that's a normal requirement. Now, there is a reason here to regret that the government is in the final meters in this case, which have been taken from the prime season of Sigurðardóttir Sigrfjörðurdóttir and to work together on the contrary, working jointly on Icelandic interests, in reality, and usually closer to one man, with every step in mind, try to make it some sort of basic language on the final pages, and concealing information, and not taking the form of agreements that men handled between the political parties during the last term. This is certainly a shame, and it is not the result of improving our politicians.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u134	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar for his passage. I would like to ask him if he believes that the method of going to bankruptcy instead of bankruptcy is merely a benefit to the demands, whether it is. A senator sees no profit in it for the Icelandic economy, and whether so. A senator sees no benefits in this for balance. And third, because he got convinced that with this methodology, he was already tying a pension fund, a company, and people on the head until the next year, whether he either has or is ever told whether he is questioning the words of the bank manager, the son of Már Guðmundsson, who already said that the presentation of this method would be made clear that the bank's pension and business would be lifted right away in 2016.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u135	A respectable president. First of all, emergency contracts. There is nothing that prevents the violation of the Union's violations, if any changes in dates or legislation, from presenting and receiving approved pacts, even if it is made payable to broken-up taxes. It's not the opposite in itself. It simply means that the foreign demands of the workers get less out of the pacts than they would get out of the pacts that are being resolved here with these inquisitors in the law. As for the bank manager's words, I didn't hear the quoted words. But I do not think that this is the right thing to do, for at least I did not say that people and businesses would remain in the seas. I really hope that they can be removed from the seas, at least to a considerable extent. However, there have been indications that the payment process does not allow the pension fund to take less than 10 billion a year to make investments abroad. The pension fund, of course, has been placed in place for years on the investments of the pension fund abroad. It's not equal in my opinion, and it was what we talked about in spring when it was said that men could escape the stable tax by meeting stability conditions, which would be equal. I don't see such a great deal that foreign demands can go out with the money, but the pensions will be limited to the amount of money they can make for foreign investments. It is simply not an equation, and it is not equivalent to a stable tax and the conditions for which this is being addressed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u136	A respectable president. So I testify again to the said words of the bank manager, Már Guðmundsson, then he said at the presentation, I'm not going to have the medal after, that head of the pension fund, business and public in the country could be raised in the course of these measures. So I ask why. Again: Where is the difference, or is equal, if the bank manager believes that there may be lift-off restrictions on the pension fund, general companies and individuals at the same time as the required operation, that stability conditions are first and the sufferers are replaced by bankruptcy? So I ask why. Once again, where is the equal or equal incompetent if it is thought that this procedure could result in the raising of the head of a pension fund, business, and the public in the country during 2016?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u137	A respectable president. The difference is that this is the decision to cast foreign demands first from head to head with the winsome hope that others will later be let out of the seas. If the rich hope proves to be excessive optimism for the future, then the foreign demands have gone out, while all others have been trapped. That's not equal. If equal things should be the obligation to let everyone out at the same time, not the foreign demands first, and then perhaps later if things go well. The second question is, When we begin to lose weight in what way it is done. If these plans, as it seems to me, are based on the fact that to bring them down here a substantial amount of money into foreign currency, such as the 50 billion here have been coming in the last few months of growing trading, we also know what that means. This means that for years Iceland needs to offer higher interest and expected considerably higher than in neighboring countries. Is it the scene that we want to establish, that the late bat has to maintain a interest level so much higher than neighboring countries, that money can be pulled in here to maintain that stage?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u138	A respectable president. I wanted to ask you what. First, a senator is directly concerned whether he wishes to support the bill and vote with it. I understand that there is a problem, considering how fast it all happens, as it has rightly been criticized here. I'm beginning to wonder when it comes to criticaling this bill in the fancy speeches that have been held here today as far as history is concerned, especially during the last term, and the main methodology behind the release of capital waste. I see in this bill something that makes the process more comfortable, at least basically, whether they prefer stable taxation or stability with conditions and all of it. I wonder what. A senator will support the bill and if not, why not exactly? Is it because it's too fast, or is it in some way unnecessary or something similar? After this great discussion that has taken place here today and with good things, I think we need to start asking one another about our decision and why it is time to vote on this subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u139	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's question. Now, in the United States, we expect the matter to come into votes after a council meeting tomorrow and, of course, will be in our company before we take sides in the matter. I think we're right next door. A senator said that there is a great lack of information on both the subject and the Criticism that makes it difficult to decide whether or not these technical threats are needed. The other is so no secret that we've long felt that if we could reach agreements equal to our taxation, we'd like to support such a route. However, to do so, it must be shown that the way is as valid as it needs to be proved equal in it because that was the basis for what was given in spring. At the very least, it has not yet been observed, but it is still time for votes to provide information and explanations and to provide information that might strengthen decision making at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u140	A respectable president. I feel like I've been in the air from the beginning that there's a lot of emphasis here in a body hall and just as much out in the community, I guess, on how much this amount is going to be, something I feel personally, compared to what I've been able to look into all these matters, not everything. They're trying to solve a project, they're not trying to earn money, they're not punishing anyone in themselves, at least it's not their goal to punish someone, maybe it's part of a larger objective if we're going to call this tax punishment or a bat, as the way one was called. The focus is always on the numbers and the sums. It seems as tempting as it is to get off the tax and to try to get it on, the whole goal of the tax is to make the other way more reasonable, especially to ensure that the legal rights of the journey are undisputed so that people do not press charges and slow down from doing so. They have their meanings about how such judicial cases would take place. Probably this tax would be declared legal, but it would take time to deal with it all, and there are uncertainty factors that are not necessarily predictable. As I understand this process, it is the aim of merely to put as many people as possible through a process that is the least dispute on being a legitimate procedure, especially in order to be predictable, and with the least unpredictable consequences. That's why I wonder: " Tell me why. ' A senator that it would be acceptable to have the Sullabana come up with conditions, demands accepted them, and still, do we take the tax route?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u141	A respectable president. There is no need to answer the last question because that is not the case. The case has grown to such an extent that the Navy bank has set out conditions. The requirements have been agreed to by the demands but have since requested that additional adjustment be made to make it easier for them to do so. There is nothing that motivates the council to grant such a wish. It is in itself just an additional will, and completely at the hands of the council, whether such an injury will be granted or not. The conditions have been described, and either the finalists are ready to fulfill them and complete their terms or the tax will fall on them. There is no obligation at the Council to accept such inquisitors on the law to meet them. The decision made by the Generals is totally independent if it would increase the likelihood for the foreign demands that they complete their affairs on their own. If they don't get through with it, the tax will simply fall on. There's nothing illegal or unreasonable about that, because it's just the current rules and the rules we set in spring. We are in no way obliged to reduce their demands.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u142	A respectable president. I have to say, it's always awkward when matters are handled so quickly that people don't feel that they have the opportunity to be informed enough. This is especially awkward when it comes to actions that are as important to the nation's rich interests as they really are. Of course, the financial oceans are one of Iceland's major economic problems, and it is very important that it is clear how to solve these issues, especially where law decisions are taken, i.e. in the High General Assembly, people do not experience information or that they do not have time to look at it, and think about it because it is not just a matter of reading a bill, considering the title, and review when considering such matters, but you also need to understand as deeply the proposal and the setting as possible. At times, people feel that they are yielding to some decision - making decision when it is not true. But the fact that people experience it that way is in itself a problem, especially when it comes to such a big deal. This bill in itself is not much of a matter. However, there is a lot of material around it, and as soon as you start considering the details, things start to get complicated. The bill itself is not long; just four articles have a set of values, which are more complex than usual, if that is the case. I notice that the changes in the productions of more parts are more meaningful than the bill itself. I think it suggests that the matter has been worked in a hurry, and though in general I think it's okay that the council itself has more to do than the custom, I would like things to be done better, as in the case. Now there may well be issues why people rush in on this matter, and I believe they do. This is because bonds on markets do not want to receive bonds where this tax is present. But that doesn't change the problem, i.e. that doesn't change the fact that we're taking care of it very quickly, it's here to finish it tomorrow. I hope a meeting doesn't stand until midnight, so it gives a little bit of room to look up the information on the subject. Now that the discussion has been going through all day, you will always have to read or listen and miss it from time to time. Often, the discussion has been very illuminating and often puts the focus in places other than the written language. Today, things have been discussed with capitalists in a wide sense, including things such as the growth difference, which is that I come back to become a problem. It was one of the major problems before disaster, because high interest rates in Iceland and low growths abroad, at least in combination with the free flow of capital, mean that there will be a vicious cycle that tends men to deposit money here and take them out abroad and make money on interest. This presents a number of problems and, especially, the demand for a dollar, more than what you would expect and can justify yourself from the actual worth of the crown of distribution and exchange of goods, products, and services. Now you hear a man come back to this problem, and this is a problem that I haven't even heard anyone suggest a more realistic solution for you yet, except to pick up another currency. The more I think about it, the more I'll be convinced that U.S. dollars is the root cause of these problems in Iceland. And whether they talk about euro or even what some people think is a very hopeless idea, Canadian dollars, it's still ideas that we need to talk about, even if only to convince people that e.g. A Canadian dollar is a completely hopeless idea, if we take it as an example, which I was convinced of until recently, but that is so another story. When it comes to the interest difference, he is in my opinion for the reason that here we have this blessed crown. It has many unpleasant effects. One of its problems is the smallness of the economy, the smallness of the economy, which actually uses the dollar other than fortune - tell. This, however, is inevitable in the discussion of inflation and growth of the Federal Bank and, in fact, the general interest level. According to classical economic theory, as I understand it, the idea of high interest is often of cutting the consumption rate, overheating the economy. In an economy where there is a large currency and many people, a lot of services, many products, and a wide variety of economics, this theory may well be good and correct, but it may not work here. Actually, I'm saying it doesn't quite stand here. One reason is that there will be growth differences, there will be a cycle that means extra demand for the crown and thus an unrealized manner of success, which means once again that the business equations will be negative and more difficult for the Icelandic economy to live up to the pay raise and, therefore, the reality of society's wealth. Before a collapse, I remember very well that the Savvy Bank wanted to keep the growth high, among other things, because of the classical economic theory that high interest is to be added to and encouraged to save, to reduce consumption and investments, and so on, but in part to maintain credibility. It was all about the appearance, the way things looked. It would be more question as to how a suit was in, what words they used over something that could have been expressed in human language but could not have seemed cool or cool enough. That still holds true. It says that there was a collapse, a lack of trust between the government and the public, and from there came the rich demand for political change and other things. But the failure of my confidence led me to believe that here we were maintaining a financial government with a certain sort of fancy, i.e. by focusing on the appearance, focusing on some form of credibility that we did not intend to achieve by applying the teachings of the Icelandic economy, but on the theories that humans believe in elsewhere that are not necessarily suitable here, since the Icelandic economy is very special even though it is not popular to say so. He has a tiny currency medium in a tiny economy. I'm afraid to claim to a lot of politicians that they don't understand the idea and the basis behind the teachings they're using for economic management. If they understand it, it is an academic understanding that will take no account of the specific circumstances here. As a result, we always get involved in some kind of boring solutions, the more polite words I know about it than the dirt mix, as it is sometimes called, including insurance, capital planning, and the like. This has been true since the beginning, as far as I know. Inflation has always been a problem here. It's always been a problem that we can't have the free flow of funds and total free markets with the same consequences as it might be if it was a nation of millions or tens of millions of people, I'm not talking about it. The world's primary economic theories and those over the world's heads are rationally based on the fact that there is a market that has a particular advantage, such as competition, something that Iceland has never been able to do in any decent way in a single industry, except perhaps in shops and the likes. Here is an overwhelming lack of competition, excessive corruption followed, I do not mean corruption in the sense of being dishonest, but simply because the nation is very few, people are known, and is not able to do anything about it. As a result, we need to be especially cautious when it comes to corruption, and we should view the nation's lowlyness as an excuse for some connection, but rather as proof that an abnormal relationship is a local principle rather than an exception. That is something that we need to face as a small nation and face with our own integrity. I often tell men I can find a great programmer and a great computer security expert. It's probably my friend. I guess I had a beer with him once or twice, probably. It's just because it's a small country and there's not a lot of people to pick out. Of course, that means you're always in some way connected to people here. At least there's a great risk of it. But that's enough. As for this bill, I have to admit that I have not achieved a profound understanding of all its factors in order to trust myself to vote with it as a whole. I like what I understand about some of the changes I make. The Economic and Business Committee. I see the goal, and I think it basically is a matter of business, but after the discussion of the day, I'm beginning to doubt that it's the role of the Parliament to meet the needs of those who are in a time crisis. To say that I find it very important to prove that these actions are performed faithfully. As people have said and rightly said, however, the General Assembly is not committed to dealing with the problems of demands that result from their consenting to contracts or going on the forced way. But I don't think there's anything wrong with it, either, given that the financial situation is behind it, and it doesn't interfere with the process, because the goal is to free the capital. The goal is not to earn money for the Kingdom. This is not our goal, and we should not view it as a goal. I'm very concerned that if you think of it as a goal, you'll want to take this money out for the next campaign and start making promises of people's free money with the intention of buying votes. I call it buying votes because there's nothing but buying votes. It's annoying, and people should not be asked to, if that's true, but that's another story. Away from it, I can't see as it has come to these suggestions in itself. Of course I have doubts. I'm not convinced that it's a good thing, but after today's discussion, I can't at least see it being harmful, so I'm more inclined to vote with the bill than against it. I see no reason to vote against that. Perhaps I would sit by because I'm not convinced that yes is the right decision. I tend to, and I want to lean on it. I want it to be the right way, I hope it's the right way. What has been criticized about this matter is that there has been a wide range of developments, especially the fact that humans are not well - informed or that they have time to examine the matter well enough. It is a legitimate problem and should be listened to. But there is not in itself a material problem with the bill as such or as a change in the motion of more things. The Economic and Business Committee. I can't help but mention one particular change, and that's the first thing I've ever seen. The committee suggests that, i.e. to avoid taxation on interest and bonds only from bonds published in the current labour agreements. If you read the original text in the bill, you will immediately see what the committee has been predicting. She's been trying to subjugate it so that it's just a bond in relation to an exorbitant agreements due to the release of capital stocks. I saw a new proposal from the Committee and, of course, is in favor of it and votes with it, as it is necessary in my opinion, but I can't afford to mention that I think it's kind of harsh that the committee needs to correct it on the bill. I think that suggests that men were doing this in a certain hurry. I feel like this is something men should have seen when they were writing the bill, and I think they would have done it if they had thought they had enough time to look into it to the end. But saying that it is in itself a good thing for the Council itself to be more involved in the legislation of the country. That's not the problem. But I find the uncomfortable clues about the speed of speech and that things are done in such a hurry in a big and important matter that people have to sit by a vote because they feel that they have not had enough time or even had access to enough evidence to make an informed decision. From whom it's to blame or whether there are perplexing reasons for it or what it is, it's still a problem. It's a problem, we're supposed to make informed decisions here, especially when it comes to this kind of thing. As I said before earlier, I hope that a meeting will end before midnight tonight, so it will have some time on this day to go back over the commissions and debates in the light of the discussions that have taken place today, but of course I would like to have more time to do it if a vote comes tomorrow, then there will be a very little time to use the discussion that took place here today to digest the matter further and try to find out the informed conclusion. There's one more thing I'd like to mention that I've been told many times today, there's a complaint that this is not the same. I have to say, I'm getting kind of excited about what people mean with exactly the same values, whether they're talking about not going along like that and then a lot of money into the state fund or not taking the same time. It follows that this is the same way, the way of taxes, and the way of making contributions, and that is a reason for it. That's why it's two ways. It's a little unclear what humans mean exactly by that, but I don't quite understand why they insist on having it as valid. These are two elements of a plan to relieve capital capital capital, that's the goal. And if we just think of it as the objective of these actions and adjustment as part of that procedure, I do not fully understand why people put so much emphasis on its being equally valid. I don't quite realize that it matters, even once, but if anything doesn't really matter much, it's not exactly as much as it's going to work. Of course, it is all important that it succeeds because it is a subject for nothing less than the 2008 collapse, which I think and hope have changed Iceland in some way, especially about how we think about economic and money and their role in our small, wonderful society.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u143	A respectable president. In view of what was presented in the matter, I think it is right to make one point. The speaker in the preceding talk, something that has also been discussed in other talks on the subject. There are some concerns about money, there are some debates about how to spend the money or how much money comes by these two routes, the stable tax, or the emergency contracts. But then I want to make this decision, and it was specifically discussed in the summer when the laws on stable taxes were agreed that there are very strict conditions for the provision of the budget that would be transmitted either by stable tax or by the forced agreements of the demands by so - called stability. You see, the purpose of the taxes is not at all to earn money to cover the government's expenses but to provide the basis for the emissions of capital ablation, with economic stability and the economic benefits being guided by it. Then I come to what I want to ask you. A senator on whether he agrees with me to both the technical issues that we are dealing with today, as well as the presentation of the stability progress or stability conditions we've had during the past week, i.e. doesn't he agree with me that the goal is to raise capital capital capitals? Can we not agree that those such ones are bad, and we need to lift them? If he agrees with that, I'd like to ask him how he can best predict the best way to do it, if that's better than the stable tax, because while the demands were going on a stable tax, they'd still be in here, and they wouldn't go anywhere after paying a high-state tax. They were still incarcerated with property here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u144	A respectable president. I believe there is a way, of course, I'm all for taking away the capital. I don't remember anyone explaining that they were really good or that we had to have them, certainly not in the same form, but the other thing is that problems with the crown make us always think in some painsome solution, either oceans, insurance, or both, etc. Yes, I agree with the objective. It also has a very bad effect on the economy, so even if there's some bad effect on the weight of the oceans, then it's just not a bad effect because the bad effects of the seas themselves are also very strong, and in general it's also a boring method, keeping people free, not only to shop abroad, but simply to do something outside of the rocks, and it's very rough, especially for a long time. I must admit I'm not on the best route, I have no ideas I'd dare call the best route. On the other hand, people have often had serious doubts about this route, not just whether the tax, the forward, or what, but simply the whole course of concern and concern over certain dangers, that too much money goes out at once, or something like, too much or too little money goes into the state's budget or whatever. But I think we're dealing with situations that are difficult, no way out of danger. Since we are always taking some risk, especially when making laws, it is important that we make the most informed decisions. This has proved to be a challenge for reasons that are not only the rate of this event but also the way the council works, and that in itself is not a unique problem in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u145	A respectable president. I was just asking because there's a lot of talk that with the current case and when discussing it, it's a matter of special attention to demands, of doing them a special favor. For me, this seems different, much rather, to the point where this is being helped, because that word has been applied to a number of demands, out of the country so that they are not here to create a crisis, a economic problem to the future. The subject being discussed is part of it, in my opinion, with the goal of helping the Icelandic State rather. So it comes as a surprise. In fact, a senator declared it and discussed one particular article in a new proposal proposed by the greater part of the Committee, and I rejoice that he said he was pleased to celebrate the adjustment and vote, but then I am surprised to find out why. A senator should state that he will sit by and not take sides in the matter because there is insufficient information. I wonder, I have what. For example, a senator made a specific informed decision regarding the stable tax, and what effect on the stable tax and its payment would have on the future after 2016? Is there anything better in this regard? I've heard some noise. A senator specifically speaks about this matter, since it has to do with contracts, is something particularly vague.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u146	A respectable president. I believe in this subject that we should try to share a common responsibility for all of this. It was very difficult to study things at the time when it came to the stable tax, but I thought it worked, or at least enough, to make me ready to take responsibility for it. Now I'm not going to stand here and explain exactly or justify it to other members of Congress how I vote. I just vote as I like, it's no more complicated than it is in itself, but it seems to me to do so from all kinds of reasons I'll be glad to explain. But when it comes to making an informed decision or not, I simply try to make the most informed decision, and in this case, it is important that we be willing to take responsibility for it, but I also realize that there is no way to do this without a risk. That is why I say in my speech: I agree to vote with this, and I hope I can do it with a good conscience. I'm just not sure. I have the right not to be sure of just everything in life, including matters of Congress, all matters of Congress, seeing if they're late, working fast, whatever. I agree with what. A senator, if I correctly understood that this is not about the question of whether or not we are supporting demands. The goal is to relieve the capital capital. That's the goal. It is an honorable and essential goal for which I want to share in responsibility. But when we're short, I think it's right that we mention it, that's all that matters, and it's necessary. I didn't get to mention in my first answer about the use of funds. That's right. That's smart. A senator that there are conditions for the use of this money. But that does not necessarily prevent political parties from promising free money for a lot of people to win elections, so am I. In fact, I see such promises in the media these days, and I fear them very much.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u147	Mr. President. I'm going to try to review this case, which is a bill to legalize the change in income taxes, a law for special taxes on financial companies and financial law, i.e. Necessary negotiations of the tenants of fallen financial companies. So long it was. I have been sitting here today and listening and trying to figure out how to handle this matter, listening to more parts, and smaller numbers, though mostly the lesser part expressed itself. I have to say, I miss the presence of a minister in the hall of this huge affair that they've decorated with at times, where large amounts of money have been dropped into the ether, and we should expect that large and large sums of money will be returned to the state funds due to the procedures being proclaimed. We remember the corneas that showed 1,200 million. Eight hundred million. K. and 900, and what was now, large numbers that were to be set up for the stocks, but then the sums of money decline, just as they did with the large campaign supply of candidates who quickly declined. I admit that this case is very complicated whether it's a stable tax or a stable tax, and I have serious doubts that the majority of members of the Parliament are prepared to explain the issues that are involved tomorrow in the process or when it comes to subsidies. At least I feel worried that no more people are participating in the discussion or trying to put themselves in it because this is an enormous interest in us. I've been here all day, and I've had an excellent conversation with my friends, who I believe have considerable insight into the matter, both of them. paritaprevir Björn Valur Gíslason and Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, who may know a little longer than their noses are reaching these issues. Even so, you are slowly trying to connect things, and I feel I have a long way to go still. It's nice to swerve here only on the 1st cut-off of the Economic and Business Committee, Jakobsdóttir Jacobsdótttir. It involves what we have criticized considerably, i.e. A lack of communication, and we have also reminded them of a decommissionment committee. She's had little meetings, sort of been put out in the cold, and nothing has been said about these matters. Not because she was not actively involved in these matters but was taken together for a few times because she was informed of something that had even been observed elsewhere. It is very small, and as we have considered here today, the general senator has not had very detailed data in himself to read or study in order to have a conversation and conversation with such a complex matter. I find it quite questionable, without taking my stand on stable tax or stability, to go through such complicated matters in such a short time and to take a stand on it without having any evidence in front of me except perhaps 24 hours or so. In summer, when we were paying a vote on the bill underneath, we stood left behind going the stable tax, thinking it was relatively simple in the first place, and very useful than we were, and having been more skitish on the stabilisation process. Of course, there are pros and cons for all of this as we have been traced, but my knowledge has not been directly demonstrated that the way here is being chosen is better. However, there are big claims and high numbers, but people also assume that if the tax route has gone, the problem has been lost. There is no evidence in itself to support that, at least is nothing in what I've been reading that says it will be. Of course, it has to be stated as it is that it is special when the case is presented and questioned, and I believe that both the members of the council agree that minutes after a presentation is made on the Ministry Department's Web site, both the parties agree that there are agreements. It is attempted to tell us senators that there was no conversation or agreement. As was attributed to this day, it must not be mentioned as talking or writing but as a living conversation. Of course, this is extremely unfaithful, and it has led me to be, at least, more skeptish than otherwise, of course, to the fact that everything is on the table. We warned against certain things that we believe are here regarding the stability conditions and the irreverent conclusions that were to be met as with the tax. Now there is another reality, so maybe that criticism was right, I don't really want to say that warning, but at least people were thinking about how it was presented. There's been evidence to support us. Here was a representative of the forward party earlier, and he was still talking about execution. I don't think anybody's talking about detoxification, that's what they're talking about. There is also a little talk that the public enjoys it very quickly and safely, but there has been no plan for delinquency or for their disposal to the public. Then there's the side that turns toward the pension funds, as we've done here in detail today. I don't quite understand why the more part doesn't face the financial needs of the pensions, and I don't see it so that they're really inside yet, compared with just getting the opportunity to invest abroad for 10 billion each year. In fact, there is nothing more than a sustained head for some time. When you listen to your people who have been sitting on a Economic and Business Committee and have yet received the information that has been produced by the government and half of the people who have been working on this for them, it is clear that they are very limited. We have a word of caution that many things are not settled. It's all a bit technical, and I haven't exactly put myself in the technical coverage, but I've tried to figure out what this means for the public and for the National Relations. You try to get the big picture, but it must be dangerous, as expressed in the opinion of the dog. paritaprevir Katrín's daughter, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, did not provide data which clearly explains the meaning of the anxious agreements, e.g. how the requirements or bonds are put together and what evaluations have been made for the reimbursement of banks in some years, etc. This concern is not just for members of Congress. I remember those days during my last term when I used to watch the Senate on television, when a group called themselves an Invenge was highly respected by the current government party and especially the forward party. What they gave up was highly esteemed and valued. Now these people have the same members, i.e. This group, having serious doubts about this method, have provided evidence to confirm or their calculations and believe that the case is unacceptable as presented. Of course, one must think, " Why isn't there a significant catch in this group that I'd like to say has almost established prime minister during the last term?'His cautions are not considered to be anything. Indefence has, among other things, said that demands are receiving a discount that is not entitled to them. They criticize the process as we have done, that it is not open and undesirable, and they also feel as if there are details of the stability process far away from the way humans calculate to the amount that is convenient for them. I guess that's the easiest way to put it. This is one that is highly critical, and others have done so. I'd also like to mention that when you read the files of the Secret Bank or the report of the collapse of fallen financial companies, the numbers are all over the place, and it's just like with the budget bill, that they're saying that somehow it's done to confuse you, that people have to look at them in order to try to sort things together and try to figure them out. I don't understand why they don't say it in a clear way. Men have examined the corneal presentation, and this has been summed up at the core and in the island and in other places, some people have tried to pull it together and get out of this whole thing, and I'd like to say that not all people who have done that work by side of the government side. I think and I want to believe that these are just independent journalists trying to draw up information and have a controversial criticism of the country's economic regime at any time. The corneal profile of the 12 cornea shows that the total exposure of the rib cages is around 815 billion. However, at the press conference last week, the government held that the overall scope of the operation was 856 billion. Then there were some efforts to calculate the stability progress, and it has been shown during the discussion today that there are some 380 billion, which, of course, is put together in a very special way. I also feel that the nation needs to realize that there is an incredibly small amount of money, i.e. hard money coming in. I have found in the discussion when these presentations have taken place, as if all of this could come into the state box and subsidize the debt as soon as the bill is approved. But these are a few dollars in the entire context. There are about 3 billion in money in the swellings of Glit, because we get the bank, that's 5 billion in the swelling box of the Land Bank, because it's in the combined holdings of 8 billion, and the rest is paid in various ways, primarily in property we as a nation, so it's in prices. I also ask if the greater part has not wondered about it or does not feel abnormal that the banks, both Iceland and Anion Bank, are evaluated at Q-ratio 1 instead of 0.7 or 0.8 or something else that might be considered more realistic. All these things are determined that we may sell them at the price of writing, but why should we be able to sell them at greater price than others? It's also said that if we give ourselves a share, it's an e.g. 0.6, but not 1 quickly reduces the amount by 74 billion. Then there are the ones who are placed in the total financial height that we would be disfellowshipped from this operation here anyway. Of course, it is very special to be drawn up, as is the cost of the long - range government of 46 billion or so, recovered from the archive of 81 billion, the new Lands Bank, the old Lands Bank, that is 149 billion. All of this would have slipped away from seeing if this route had gone or not, but it is still drawn into this number. When you see such things, it is not to make the matter more reassuring. So I don't think it's exactly answered from this section whether or not this analysis agrees, that the amount of money that was paid anyway, regardless of this bill, and whether it's being presented in an impossibility way, at least for the civilian, because it's not enough for some ten, fifteen people to understand it here in the house, it's more desirable that more people do it in such a huge deal. I would have wanted us to have had more time to read this, even though it was only in order to be able to figure it out better, get more people to come to this, convince people before they voted, it would take a stand with or, if any, be sure of what's underneath. I don't feel like it's in the mood right now when this is the case. I certainly hope that the committee takes time to look at this rather than to force it through and see to it that it will be presented in a decent way so that people in general do not have to be able to do the gaps or have journalists do their job for the government because she does not rely on her to make it a reasonable way and people in general understand.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u148	President. In one of the last corneas and corneas shown by the government, which claims to have nothing to do with these matters except by presenting what is available, in the cornea 12 - I don't know if that show was in the Harpa or in some other hall in town, it doesn't matter anything - something I think is significant. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ The complete problem of the three broils is 815 billion. .................... The overall problem of the swelling farms is 815 billion. The arrangement and way you presented it, i.e. The stability process, however, solves the problem of 379 billion dollars, according to one estimate, to a maximum, and this is achieved by placing possessions, including A bank that is appreciated at one point in return for its worth, which is worth absolutely few if we compare a bank comparable to that, i.e. Iceland Bank. In fact, the average assessment of European banking institutions is under one or more large banks, which are estimated to be 0.5 to 60.6 of their published value. [[Taken to one, far below one.]] Danceke Bank is estimated at just less than one, DNB is estimated on under one, 0.9 or less, etc. This does not hold back from bringing this up for 379 billion as a solution to 815 billion problems. The difference between the two groups is over 400 billion k, which is a problem that is being pushed into the future and is not to be solved in this round and not to be solved. Then they calculate to this number - 856 billion were, in fact, in one of the corneas show - with creative accounting methods, with a range of costs being picked up, management costs, no harm fund, recovery from Iceland's Secret Bank, extended loans and debt of state funds, etc., until the figure that you want to reach this equation is found. All of this, with a positive attitude, let's call creative calculations, creative production of a huge problem, but this doesn't hold any conclusions. It is often good when people are unsure about a matter and want to see if their arguments are valid and to see what others have to say, e.g. those outside the political community, those who have studied the matter and have an understanding of the issues involved. I'm here to quote a man named Sveinn Valfells, who has for many years stepped into such a case and turned in the reviews to the General for this kind of case. He says, with President's permission: It seems that the Minister of Justice has forgotten all the greatest promises of government execution. His case suggested that there was a large difference between the introduction of policy and the implementation of the strategy. It is impossible to see that the venture capitals of the fallen banks and debuners should be put first from the oceans. At the same time that venture capitals are to be disbarred, the public, the job, and the pension fund have not even been introduced. Are Homes to Be Done? The answer must be yes. Sveinn Valfells also says, on permission of the President: ▪ The problem, defined as 815 billion, is only 379 billion, left to appear to be 400 billion dollars that may leave the country and thus have a negative impact on Iceland's Icelandic kronos and a low level of money and extra inflation, and this problem has not been solved, it seems only to have been shifted into the past. In addition, Santa Claus is quoted as Sveinn: The demands are expected to finance the new banks and otherwise invest in the long term here. Sveinn believes that by doing this, the old bank ventures get a huge tax rate for paying the new banks a loan they could borrow elsewhere. In other words, the demands of the swelling of old banks are going to invest in the new banks and provide loans that, of course, bring interest to the head because loans are not locked in the seas. This is a good business, this is a great business for the demands. There is no increase in interest to any part of the world than there is in Iceland. It's a dream solution for them, as well as they're leaving behind here in the banks one third of the loans they have, i.e. about 100 billion dollars. which they're going to leave from loans in the Icelandic banking system. There has been little discussion of what demands in this case. It's also about how content they are to get off property from their oceans. It is easy to calculate, however, that the information is more natural than any needed information, but it can easily be calculated that it does not exceed 500 billion dollars. and will likely be considerably more of what they take out of currency priced by these treaties. When will this happen? First, it will happen the next summer that some movement will get into these matters as long as all of these issues are realized. What, then, will happen? The first of all, the demanding seaves, having their possessions gone out of the seas; for there is no other plan. In this regard, there is no way that others will get their solution. Plan One is that the demanding crew can get their things out of the oceans in the late summer or the next fall. So how much do they carry? Not under 500 billion bucks. That's over 500 billion bucks. which should be removed from the oceans without providing a single plan on how to allow pension funds to invest outside the market, much less households and businesses. So we'll stay in the seas, the public in Iceland, just as Sveinn Valfells pointed out in his interview and article. Iceland's public will remain in seas, and Iceland's business will remain in seas. There is no room for that, if you want to keep an equal payment system between Icelandic and foreign coins, to let out more than 25 to 45,30 billion a year, perhaps 30 billion, for a pension fund that needs to be produced for 150,2 billion a year. There's no room for it, there's no room for it. There's no room for a company that has to handle with currency, let alone a home. We'll stay in the head for a while. There's no way. There has been no plan for another distinguished president. I want to finally, since my speech is getting shorter and I don't know if this will be my last talk tonight or if I get into another speech, express my frustration that the senators will not be more active in this discussion and discuss the huge case that the General Assembly has now discussed, even though it would be to communicate with them, reason to lead the best way into the matter. There's a secret of data. We do not get information from the data we need. In this case it is classified as corruption, if the evidence is kept secret from the Council, and I claim it is being done. Senators are not allowed access to the information they need. They're secretive, and we're not supposed to accept them. Depravity is a secret.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u149	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir I'm giving Björn Gíslason Gíslún the son of Gíslía for his excellent passage earlier. He is the senator who may have dived deeper into the figures behind the amount of money that is now being replaced by Icelanders. Now I am among those who say that it may not be the most important thing. Of course, what matters most is that the result will be permanent stability in the Icelandic economic system. However, X-ray eyes are probably at the top of the numbers. A government has been performing. It is because she has evidently been pulling them out as far as possible. It was very interesting to hear it from the dog. A senator in his speech earlier, which I had actually read in his fists, too, that the cash from which he made money is only 8 billion in stability. The difference between that amount and the 360 billion that are to be considered to be money assets is then a number of goods that will come in value. It is the most natural value of the Great Bank, which is appreciated by the value of names, i.e. 1.0 and about 190 billion. Hv. A senator noted that there were no banks to sell at that price, and no matter where a person goes in Europe, the banks are not selling anywhere near that price of 1.0. In other parts of the North, where they have been at any rate of the European banks, they have been increasing, from 0.4 to 0.5 and 0.6. But I would like to ask. A senator: What about other possessions? Does he believe that they also have possessions that are worth much less than what is stated, as I believe the value of the bank is considerably below what the government has calculated? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u150	President. I heard in a speech today that it really doesn't matter what value we had on the property that Glitrin's swelling farm is going to give to us, i.e. Iceland Bank. It was some senator who said today that it was not a matter of major importance. Then you might ask: Would it matter if it was a contribution in money, if it was 185 billion, or 85? I guess that matters, doesn't it? Of course, we must cash out these assets. This is in accordance with the National Association report on this matter. The value of the property is what counts for stability, not for property or for food, but for its value, what we receive for it, exactly. There is much doubt that this property, such as Iceland Bank, can be worth the price of it as its owners, i.e. weeding, ready to turn it over to us, and the Icelandic state seems to be ready to take it on, 185 billion. I'm going to allow me to doubt it's worth it. For other possessions, I have no idea what they are worth because I don't know what they are. Nearly 100 billion dollars. Possessions and requirements are completely undefined. We have no idea which property it is. That's 100 billion dollars, hardly 80, and something billion, that are in undisclosed property and requirements that we don't know. As a result, we do not know what they are worth. Then only the air has been released from the bladder when it is completely available that the contribution of the swellings of Glitnis with Iceland banking is not worth what it is being, and we have no idea of the property or what they are worth.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u151	Mr. President. Today's discussions about this bill have, in my opinion, been extremely good and, in many respects, illuminating. The bill is, like, what? The head of the Commission's opinion of more part of the Economic and Business Committee said earlier today, a legal document that allows demands to be allowed to choose this route and go to a crisis agreement. Well, it seems pretty good to me in the middle of nowhere. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Acquirer that the bill has become official to the demands of the crew. Although I say the conversation for a senator who is not in trouble. The financial and business committees have been very enlightened, leaving many unsatisfactory questions. I can't take a stand on this bill unless I have an answer to them or a closer discussion. I would like the head of the Committee to view more part of the Economic and Business Committee to come to the end of the discussion and at least an attempt to answer some of the questions I ask. One of them is: Why didn't independent parties be allowed to appreciate the value of banks? They're introduced to their names. Is this a realistic estimate of their worth? Can we be sure? Second of all. By the way mentioned here, parts of the matter is being pushed into the future, and this is why pension funds cannot get out to invest abroad but about 10 billion a year for the next seven years, possibly, and perhaps for a longer time. How will they be placed in the Icelandic economy? For example, how does their growth in our small economy affect our economy at the time of the wait? So, for the following, when does the pension fund, the general Icelandic company and the public get out of place? It is vital that we find answers to these questions because these include a number of economic factors, as well as social factors, which can cause distress. Third, please. Apparently, there was little consultation in this great nation's interest. Uncertainty and transparency are too much, there is a debate here today, and this makes it suspicious that members of Congress have not been allowed to observe the so - called living conversation between the Federal Bank, the Ministry of finance, and the demands. What was required for negotiations with the vulture fund, to use the tongue of candidates from the last term? For example, why was this bill ignored, and why? We don't know what was going on here. The reviews and introductions are often cited, in the opinion of the crew, etc. will appear, and this will be shown, which will probably have appeared in creative hearings, which the members of Congress have not been allowed to observe. Fourth off. How will the demands come out of the agreement? We don't have a clue. Number five. Is it true that the United States is giving 450 billion tax returns to the demands? That's over ten times more than Icesave would've cost us with the contracts that the candidates fought fiercely against. This seems to be true in spite of all these questions. Six. Is the stability process safer than the tax? I can't see it. There are so many uncertainty factors, both during and especially after the process. Seven. Why do those in charge feel the need to use creative mathematics when they want to convince us that the tax route and the stability process are comparable and that they pay the amount they would always make anyway? Will's Þorsteinsson named these bank posts in her fist on the Island of Oysters, and it certainly is. Such clients encourage suspicion, the government does not try to settle matters that are not supposed to be political, but all of us should unite in solving this great issue of national interests. So, finally, eighthly. The Invenge group believes that the problem will not be solved by the route referred to here and that there will be a problem that will result in failure. I want to know the reasons why they're being wrong before we vote on this bill. A respectable president. Now, after the discussion of the day, I have just mentioned a few questions, and I feel that there is a need for an answer before it is decided. To be honest, I'm worried, because if you vote on this bill tomorrow without clearly answering those questions, you'll find it hard to understand. Now there may be some answers to them, and I want them out before we say something about the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u152	Mr. President. I cannot help but agree with the questions. A senator threw up earlier. These are questions that have been raised all day by many senators who have sincerely participated in this discussion. It should be emphasized that this is the only debate we receive at the council on this large issue that has been described by both government and government opposition as the only major economic issue in the republic's shoreline. I thought it was the highest. Ministers I understood promised to attend the discussion, the highest. Secretary of the budget and the highest. Prime Minister, would be so, and recall the prisoners answering the questions addressed to the government on many uncertainty issues during today's discussion. They have not been seen, they have just entered their beautiful noses here sometime in the middle of the day, but they have not been asked for more. I agree that it is very important for us to take sides on one of the biggest issues we have ever faced that these key questions will be answered. I'm gonna answer one question. Hv. Among other things, a senator pointed to the question to the prominent speaker: What do demands of the Governing Body get out of all of this? It may be difficult to tell the exact number. But I'm still going to tell them what. A senator that earlier in the summer, when the first word of the demanding direction had been received, wrote one of the country's greatest news vanes, the Albertbjörn Þórðarson, the one who has observed this matter, an article in the market section of the newspaper. There he described the reaction of demanding ones in that way when they learned of this way: Horror. And news reporter Þorbjörn Þórðarson allowed himself to ask, "What is the cause of this rejoicing? " [[The president calls.]] Is it possible that the government has made its own arrangements? But this was the reaction of the demands, why. A senator, at the conclusion of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u153	Mr. President. Yeah, it's just the kind of thing that makes you feel suspicious, and when you're going through the council, you're going to be in such a hurry. And you're right, it's the only discussion the senator and I have. We ask questions here, but we do not get them answers because, like a boy, they do. The senator of Össur Skarphéðinsson pointed out the Ministers, the Supreme Court. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. Financial and economic ministers, little show up today. They are not here at the end of the discussion to take up the questions and answer them. Of course, we're going to direct our questions to the head of the Committee of the Economic and Business Committee, and it may be unfair to do so. But, hey. There's a senator in the hall, but he's the highest. don't ministers, who have lived in the midst of meetings with the demanding rulers, and therefore know the matter better, and its foundations. I don't know how the senators can possibly be demanded to vote after this brief discussion this morning. I will not trust to take my stand on this matter. It's not finished, it's not finished. There are too many questions left, too many billion under the nation's money.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u154	Mr. President. I've previously described my opinion here today. I don't need long speeches to repeat it. I find it humiliating for the Allied Council of Iceland to have to come together in order to give some further solutions to demands so that they can enjoy the grandest form of discount. Whatever a person may say, the prime minister of Davíð, the Gunnlaugsson of Gunnuga, gives them 450 billion from a 39% stable tax. I don't think that's the job of the Generals to do that. That's what's happening here in three substances; we're helping great demandsmen to turn down little demandsers, we're helping all the demands by giving them time to slip in this way, apart from the fact that we're wearing a special protective shield for what I've allowed me to call the Tortol team. Well, that's another story. Even though it's just a technical solution, it's being cleared up, but on the other hand, the whole process rests, the whole big thing too, and that's done in a few days. How many meetings have been held? The Economic and Business Committee on This Issue for the Last Days? Maybe three, maybe four. We others who have not sat there have had no access to any information about the matter other than those who have been present during the General Assembly Hall today and in committees. Plus the questions you had. A member of the council mentioned earlier raised very serious doubts during the discussion today. I recall it as a backdrop. paritaprevir Steingrimur J. Sigfússon pointed out in a more fine speech today. He pointed out that the chronological order has been interrupted, i.e. that the omissions had not been scraped out as required, as the nature of the matter must be done before men go to the ready for anything to be guaranteed. 300 billion there, shoot into the future, and then the money attached to longevity and loans and other points of Inveffence. It raises serious doubts, and it is only natural that this matter is considered to be a trial and much better. [[The president calls.]] That's why I think it's right. A prominent speaker tries to answer questions that arise. paritaprevir "Oddný G. Harðardóttir offered earlier, "and I feel no pity for her to walk them whips if the ultimate. Ministers don't need to stay here and live up to their duties and answer the members of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u155	Mr. President. There's little I can do but say the word. Senator. That's exactly what I'm worried about the 300 billion people who were supposed to be in the first row, and it was supposed to have been solved before what we're talking about here. There are 300 billion and 450 billion in taxes. There have been reports here that we are giving the demands the greatest tax rate in Europe, at least even if more were sought. That's what the candidates want to do. I cannot help but mention the candidates here because of what they showed off in their last term and how they talked about demandsors, as vultures who definitely shouldn't negotiate, and should turn out billions of them to improve the interests of an Icelandic nation by means of noise and dudeting. Today, they do not even come in a public talk to discuss the matter with us when they recommend that the vultures they spoke so freely of during their last term receive a sum of 450 billion discounts from an Icelandic nation. Isn't this a little crazy, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u156	Mr. President. We're here discussing a bill that relates to the only major financial issue that has been discussed at the council after a collapse, and I want like the rest of the council members who have taken very seriously critical of the speed in which this case has been established and the lack of information that has been reported today. First, I want to direct my words to the press as well as to those interested in economics and those interested in politics to a good knowledge of 2nd - smaller points. paritaprevir The Valgerður of Bjarnadóttir wrote. It is as if it were hope, that it was written in English, and that made it clear our concern for this matter. Similarly, I'd like to point out the committee opinion 1st of my share, OK? paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, who gives various perspectives on this matter. They are both brief and easy to read, but they cannot be said about the other details we have received. There is no amount missing in the Government Bank's report or corneal presentation, but there are very difficult information and difficult to understand, and it takes a great deal of firmness and determination to pass through that evidence. Yet, they are in no way clear enough for this big case, there is much missing. Let's go over the pace. The case was recommended a month ago. It was before the government presented the stability conditions of another cornea. Then it comes to 2nd. with modifications, modifications that are much more extensive than the initial bill. The bill consists of four articles about one page in length, but the adjustments are in many joints. So the matter was neglected at the council and the information needed to make a decision about it is lacking. When we were discussing these routes in spring, the stable tax system, and the discount route, they were presented equally. It is clear to everyone reading the Committee's opinion that these are less valid. Hv. paritaprevir The Valgerður of Bjarnadóttir indicates that, of course, the process of negotiation can be good, that is, in our own opinion, usually preferred because it reduces risks and uncertainty, but we need to know what it involves. So these ways were to be as valid but are not, and now we are talking about a bill that involves further appeals on the discount page. It may be normal to give some discount in order to reduce uncertainty and risk, but 450 billion is a major factor, that is the difference between the discountal direction of the Government of Sigmundur, the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson Gunel, with regard to the foreign demands and the stable tax as a common and high support in the council. Then I wondered, " Why didn't the government at its time introduce the discount in all its power? ' Why was the matter chosen first to be handled as it was then and then to come just before the deadline for the anxious agreements has expired, presenting further discounts? Could it be that if the discount had been completed, the situation would not have looked as good as the joyful, optimistic light? Could it have been that it would have taken more time for the criticism, would it have called for further questions? Of course I don't know. But as I've said before today, I'm completely suspicious because I believe that in my part we are placed in an unacceptable position to vote on such a matter with such incomplete information as we really do. It may well be that 19 candidates and 19 independents who make up a greater part of this section have access to this information, I don't know. They've been getting some words today, some of them came here with a lot of noises. But I don't know how the general members of the hall feel about this matter and whether they're happy that the great truffle of the rock that was supposed to take place in this season has proved to be a pleasant and loving discount guide that releases them from the bonds of the currency but leave the rest of us who built this country and keep it going in the soup. When the data are well read, it can be seen that the command line contains about 379 billion in a government fund at some time. It is absolutely uncertain whether they will pay their bills, except for the money that makes up eight billion that must now pay off. Then the record at the Bank of Iceland is 185 billion. Many have criticized today that it is such a jumper, and unless the government appreciates it as if it can sell Iceland's bank at a written price, we can't get the proper basis. It has been questioned, and for good reason. There are also 83 billion possessions and requirements. We have no basis to determine if it is the right thing to do. Then it's part of a 20 billion bank sale of Arion. The same can be said about the money, such as the food in Iceland Bank. Then there's a bond on the line at Arion Bank of 84 billion. This is also shown in Article 2 of the Committee's Table, a smaller portion of the Sigmundur Davíð, Gunnlaugsson some willingness to enhance the beauty of the film, and it is considered to be a remuneration of 60 billion who have already been paid into the state's budget in the form of a bank tax. It is therefore very difficult to discern what our demands are and what discounts we are giving them. I'm guessing he's much bigger than is implied in this bill. Then comes the equivalent, for living with a currency head is a big matter for a whole community. Business advice, not my favorite advice, is somewhat close to the financial secretary's section, that is such a ideological contingency, suggests that the currency authors merit us about 80 billion a year. Of course, we in the Union are happy that we can take fine steps toward the release of a currency pot, but we offer no confirmation in our hands that the discount pathway really is a better way to do so. What you really read between the lines is -- and we don't know anything, we don't have the proper information about it -- that foreign demands are being released from currencyholders while pension funds, Icelandic companies and Icelandic public will remain within the budget. This is not the equal foretold in spring. I think it's very important that the Economic and Business Committee go to an analysis of the impact on this. The pension fund, which has a great need to get money out of the country, invest money abroad to distribute the risk and get out of the Icelandic closed economy, will probably come only 10 billion each year from the country for the next few years. Each person in Iceland who engages in any form of employment, whether it is a paid person or an independent professional worker who pays himself pay, has a legal obligation to place a part of his salary in a pension fund, into a pool of insurance that makes up an important economic support and distribute pension money between generations. These pension funds have become almost unsuspectable in the current system and are buying up everything that a buyer buys. This will continue to result in the formation of chemical bubbles in the stock market and housing market, which will catch up with the Icelandic public and not with the international demands now being evicted with abundant discount. We can't afford to resolve a case like this without having checked it out into the skin. Then, at the end, I want to quote directly, by permission of the President, in the conclusion of the Committee 2 my section. It says: ▪ The public is critical of the case rather than comment on individual legal issues, which are the reason for this speciality to be returned. However, a smaller portion would especially like to point to the following: The Committee did not provide a comprehensive explanation for the need to remove the deduction tax and, in view of the relevant double taxation agreements, it appears, that this procedure is best carried out by members of the countries requiring tax practices, such as Tortola, Cataman Islands, and other such. It is somewhat serious that the government of the Independence Party and the forwarding party will, with this bill, ensure a further discount to foreign demands and provide special shelter for those who fail their community obligations and transfer their funds to the tax industry. This is totally unacceptable, Mr. President, and I cannot tell you how the government groups are going to invite us in the smaller parts and other members of the council who I don't think have a profound understanding of this matter on the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u157	President. Many have expressed themselves on the subject under discussion, i.e. on the labour agreements and agreements that seem to have been made to the demands to take property from the country and release in the currency capitals and to reinvest the swellingers and related matters. This is an enormously important case, and I think we all have the same goal to guide, i.e. To solve it as best for the nation as a whole. That must be the goal we all have, and I'm not going to argue that there are other goals that people have in mind in this regard. Þórður Snær Júlíusson is the editor of the reactor. He has, in my opinion, rather in Iceland, written and reported this story from the beginning. As an economic journalist, he has a high regard for his writing and is unsaid by the efforts of progressive candidates at the conferences, hopefully for fun and not for real. Þórður Snær Júlíusson wrote a article in the reactor this autumn shortly before the stabilisation conditions were presented and the results were made public by ocean. The headline was a total number of demands. By permission of the president, Þórður Snær, in his analysis, says: ▪ When the banks drop down, when they've paid a structured contribution to the state fund, they'll be better than they've expected they'll be in recent years. Glitnis demands will produce up to 33 percent of the value of its demands in terms of its present property status and estimated stability. [...] In the United States, the EU budget was established, and it is apparent that a large group of demands obtained by banks at the low prices of late 2008 and in early 2009 will multiply their investments. On the other hand, Þórður continues to refer them to some of the government's corneas: ▪ Before the government's official presentation of the Hart and television programs was conducted, the largest bank demands had agreed to make this stable contribution, making much of it possible for them to do so. [...] According to the reactor analysis, demanding crews seem to be getting a good bell. The amount of money that comes to them on account of the agreement is greater than the demands that have been expected in recent years. [...] The meeting pressure of Glitnis's largest demands was adopted by other owners of Glitnis at a demanding meeting on September 8, the past. There was not even a disagreement in their ranks about the projection. So good was the deal that was right for them. Þórður Snær, editor of the reactor, says, by permission of the president: ▪ The reason is simple: The solution that is now being done in countries makes it possible for demands to be restored greater than they expected in the past few years. [...] The group buying requirements at that time, i.e. In the years following the collapse, a margarita will be investigated on his investment. It's that simple now. It is one of our leading business journalists and economic journalists who, in fact, picks up this decision as well as anyone else who did this and write about it in the local media in recent months. No one else who comes to a different conclusion. Everyone points to the same thing. They're making a mokg speech. This is far better than they ever did, so the vultures are being fed well. They've been comfortable with the advance. They come so fat from their home, in fact, so much so overwhelming, they need to blow more wind under their wings so that they can fly with the bill they are doing today, with further discounts and more assistance. How is this done? This is done with the further appeals of food that the demands have written themselves and are brought in by the secretary of finance and brought in by the administrative sector in the form of the bill discussed here. A respectable president. I said it earlier today, and I repeat: There are political sub-severalists who work so hard to serve the interests of demandsors and make them fat on their mothers, as we have seen here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u158	Mr. President. I agree with what. A senator when he says that, of course, the objective of all of us is to present this matter as a solution in a way that will look for success in the eyes of an Icelandic nation, i.e. that by means of these measures, we will be able to prepare in such a way that at the end of time, we will be able to rid ourselves of currency. That is why, along with many others, I, along with many others, was very happy when the Supreme One. At one time, the government presented its proposal for a stable tax. I myself thought it was the right way, for it was in the spirit that the previous government had established, and that it would solve the matter. I thought it was a complete run-down to a 39% stable tax that would destroy all that dollar pollution, so I now refer to the words of the bank manager of its time, found in the Icelandic economy. Then it took place like a wind. A senator described earlier that it was decided to take another route, and we received virtually no information about it. At the same time, it was said at the time that all of this should be based on clarity and transparency. It was on this basis that Invenge eventually demanded to see some evidence. At the council, Invenge, and the public, we have received relatively little information on the last record. I'm asking why. A member of the Parliament may not feel that it is a lot of work to do the situation in this way. In effect, this makes it impossible for us to reach out for an agreement. What do you think? A senator about that? And there's the other one, isn't there? A senator of the opinion that this is a major historical irony is that it is a class of the highest order. Will the prime minister of Sigmundur, the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, eventually producing a way that makes the vulture's heart so fat that you can see? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u159	A respectable president. That's exactly what it is. A senator said before that they were glad they heard something, we were told something. We were introduced in a certain way and said that a stable tax would be laid. That was something we heard, like everyone else. There was no consultation. There was no conversation between government and government. There was no conversation in the community about the ways to go, but it all happened behind closed doors. It's completely unforgivable in such a big case. I don't understand why governments take this stand on such an important issue that in itself should be cross - political, i.e. riming the collapse, disintegrating of the swelling farms, excluding seas, etc. This should not be determined by clear class lines. This is an example of a case designed to be solved in cooperation with parties on the contrary to political opinions. I don't understand why men don't work that way in this case. It offers suspicion. It's a secret thing I did before. It is suggested that those who have to make decisions, such as members of Parliament, do so on the basis of poor data, based on little information, based on information presented in Parliaments with corneal shows, press releases, and statements rather than on discussion. Decisions based on bad data and bad data are bad decisions. They will almost always be bad if we do not base them on good evidence and on our very best awareness. It looks like it's happening to me on this case. To be sure, fate's irony is that the forwarding party itself brought this matter into the council and brought joy to the demands, as it were in the analysis og skrif of Thord, son of Snow, of the Core. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u160	Mr. President. The information that lays. A senator has come up here from the core explains the reaction of another medium, i.e. The newspaper informed me that when the stability program developed, the demands were effective. Extremity was the grade given to them, of course, when matters are placed in place, that is, strictly guaranteed by the highest degree. Governments at the Icelandic bet went perfectly with demands. Like what? A senator declared the language to all who came in an effort to buy out what they needed. I'll be right back with what. Of course, a senator is amazed that the government has not tried to control the government more. We put it to the test during our last term with excellent results. At least we thought. ... inconcerning the position of control. True, it was now put on a so - called consultation committee, but it was special to the point that there was never any special consultation. As men set out in the latter part of the expedition, I was delighted. I rejoiced over the great speech, that it seemed to me that it was the highest. The prime minister moved to the forward party council. This was because in the time of the last government, the government agreed with the AGS through a threefold approach. It was based on rubbing down the glaciers, the decrepits, through the invitations, and secondly on wearing out the broken surfaces so that all the crowns would be moved to Icelandic hands. Then they were to let down the broths left over a huge tax. This was the plan as the highest. The prime minister went with him, and that's why they were happy. [[The president calls.]] Then comes this stability process, which is different. Congress has never been allowed to discuss that road to trouble. [[The president calls.]] I'm sure it might have been possible to make sense to her or to be more aware than it was not tempted.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u161	President. What is lacking in this matter is the obvious advice that should have on it. It would have been obvious, in itself, to have a government opposition to solve such a difficult situation, unless the government groups were trying to solve it in some special way that would benefit them best. The solution that lies on the table, i.e. The solution of political parties known to share the property of others is nearly 400 billion. In the assets they must come at prices. There is a requirement for this to be of benefit. It says, following the last big renovations, at the permission of a president: The debt of the state's debt will reduce the cost of the stability effort to pay off the debt -- - end the value of the stable bill. In fact, depositing Iceland banks does not reduce debt. It has to release money and pay with money. Debates will not be reduced. Debates will not be paid by throwing out the demands or undisclosed property on someone. No, it takes money to do so. Hence, the value of property must be determined to reduce debt. Then perhaps more than the vultures will rejoice. Then politicians who are accustomed to assigning the property of others to a certain narrow group may rejoice. We can practically name those groups, we know the social security numbers of those who are likely to buy those now available assets. Indefence's estimate is being carried out by forcemen. The Invenge group, by permission of the President, says that on stress taxation, foreign demands will be allowed to take over 500 billion dollars. Icelandic economy in the next few years. [[The president calls.]] They get 500 billion bucks. least out of this bax. [[The president calls.]] It's being added by the bill we're doing here tonight. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u162	Mr. President. We are here discussing a great nation's interests in the future. What stands out to me after observing today's discussion is doubtful. It is not good to doubt whether the government has made the right decision by choosing the stability process rather than the tax of 39%. I feel that it is a question that lies ahead and remains after this discussion. Of course, it is very strange that ministers like the highest degree. Secretary of the budget and the highest. The prime minister does not see a reason for the discussion, explaining and explaining why they believe that this way would be more useful to the so - called payment paid by which we would like to be present when the foreign demands of the economy are replaced by large sums of money that, as mentioned, can be as much as 500 billion. This is no small amount of money, and it's no wonder that people fear that the public of the country, business, remains trapped in the water, and that large investors that all the people are involved, the pension funds, continue to live without being able to increase their money for members. It is truly serious not to know that this is the type of relief that humans have been working for a long time. I'm not convinced of the stability progress here, which is largely in the form of property of banks here, such as Iceland Bank and Aion Bank, and in fact, not very large amounts of money being paid for that kind of money. In fact, there is also absolute uncertainty about how to dispose of the assets that the Icelandic state puts into their hands, such as Iceland Bank and Part of Arion Bank, how to get the banks in price and what buyers will be there. You feel that you are relieved of demands and that they are very happy not to sit down with the bank and be able to pay for the stability of their possessions, and of course, what they will be worth in the future is not guaranteed. It is true that in view of the privatization of banks in their time that was typical failures and should never have been done in a government way at that time, they are intimidated about how they will be sold and who will offer. I also find it very difficult as a senator who is going to make an informed decision in big matters, such as this: To vote on a law on how to prepare for the stability progress and to make a decision in another place about making a deal with the worn-out in this way. We, who vote on this matter, in effect, do not vote on whether or not we want to compare it with the data set down here. We don't have a choice, but we should vote for the bandages and laws that have been associated with making a decision in other places, with the secretary of finance, and in consultation with the Secret Bank, to choose the stability program. Of course, two bills were discussed some time ago, one of the bill expected the stability process, and the other assumed the stable tax. Most of us here voted with a stable tax, which we thought was a means of mono-communication of 39% of the total property of the population and that it was clear and clear how it would be carried out. But it has certainly been discussed over the years and said that it would be very good if some agreement could be made with the demandsors, but I don't think it can cost anything at all. I've got so many questions to ask myself. Regarding the pension fund, it has been observed that they cannot invest abroad for the next seven years except a amount of about 10 billion, but they would have to invest in much higher amounts of money compared to their assets and that they needed to make money. Questions that have been discussed today have not been answered, such as this: What is behind prices in Iceland Bank? That's not in the way. That the bank may go to 150 billion, the value is now up to 185 billion. It has been asked: What properties are they exactly what demands for the State as part of stability? Nor has anything been taken into its stitches. I feel that what is really behind these assets is vital. That's the way you keep counting. What do demands make much tax pay on the basis of the agreement? Then there's the big question: What is the difference between the stability process compared to the best possible recovery and the stable tax announced earlier in the year? I don't understand why it's the highest. Ministers, tops. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. Secretary of finance, if they feel that this serves the interests of Iceland so well, doesn't come and review it in this discussion with members of Congress, and gives a good answer to some of the questions that have been presented during the discussion, to show that this is a better and more reasonable way of going compared to the amount of money under there, better than the eviction tax we've also discussed, 39%. It has been said that there is a danger that the swollen or worn - out persons will go to court. All right. There's evidence to the point that it can be expected, but won't it just have to start? It has also been discussed that the government's tax gains have become quite extensive in this and that it has been demonstrated. These are different fragments that are underneath, and although something did fall in favor of demands and they didn't have to pay their outlet tax, I think they always have to pay the contribution that is under, stability, and then we wouldn't be taking any risks in ourselves, but the other is actually a cleaner, more transparent way to which men would be willing to accept. I have not signed that these vultures should be taxed to go to such things as loan subsidies, as the forward group proclaimed by great blocs in its time. I don't think this is supposed to be a way to make money for the state. I don't mean it. But I think it's fair that we will ensure that by the means that the public will not pay for it with political instability and equalizing between parties, the companies that are here in the country and the major investors of life's funds. It would be more than tears if the result were to remain in portents than the demands, or so seen, that would come out with 4,400,5500 billion and would be rid of unsecured possessions and no one knows how much is available for them, such as banks and other items of their contribution in the future, and over time they will be able to obtain financial resources. For my part I find it very difficult to write up on this matter, although I'm not going to make up my mind right now. I think the lawgiver should have a lot more access to this whole matter and should have had more access to it. It has been carried out by a so - called Work Committee on Emissions, but it has not worked as it should and the presence of the opposition that this committee has also been too small. It is very bad, since this is, of course, a large economic issue and one of the largest projects the government was facing at the beginning of this assembly and started to cope with it during the last term. All classes should have access to the case and shoulder responsibility for the way it is chosen. With this kind of presentation, it's not going to have to be so that everyone can sign that it must be better than an outing tax. But what can we generals say, who are not in the position today, that they can have a powerful influence on what will be done unless they object in a way that does not vote by means of the legal, technical bill available on the progress of the stability project? I don't think it's really democratic that we're in the position that this is really over and done. The House members have been drawn to the Invenge organization, which was known during the last term for opposition to the agreements to be made because of the so-called Icesave generation. Now they have expressed doubts that this way of government is right, but as I understand it, it has the highest. The minister of finance would not listen to them and listen to their language and their support of the case. It is very strange that people do not take the time to look at what is presented there in order to explain their ways and to reason more fully. A visit to our council was only to strengthen a person in the belief that we were not going the right way, and there was a lot to explain to the U.S.A. if we were to be persuaded to believe that we were making the right decision in this matter. But the government's agreement with demands is something like this: the development of the swellinghouses is a total of 379 billion, which is thus divided; 8 billion in money, that is no more in money, 185 billion paid by Iceland Bank, and no one knows what the value will be; 80 billion paid by undisclosed assets and requirements; 84 billion paid by bond in Arion Bank; and 20 billion paid by the estimated sale of Acion Bank. This is how it looks, and I think that the demands must be reasonably happy about it, for it amazed many when governments introduced some months ago to the opportunity to offer the broilers to go that way how quickly they responded and had perfect suggestions on their part. I think there was more than a living conversation between the Icelandic government and the so - called foreign vultures, mentioned here by the forward movement during the last term.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u163	Mr. President. With regard to the subject we discuss, there are a number of questions left. For example, what will be the effect of this case, the stability of the productions, and the pensions? I'll record it here because of what it is. In order to get out with his money, a senator mentioned the pension fund and their prospects in the years ahead. I have a certain understanding of the fact that the demands are, in fact, by serving very high sums, to buy first to get out with their money. That's a huge amount of money. They get out with at least 500 billion dollars. It was always subjugated, and one of the heads of this case that in terms of the possibility of transporting money from the country that we were finally going to survive with absolute equality, does not just match between demands and companies in Iceland and the public, but is not least said of the importance that the pensions could first get out with their money. Now that we can see it, we can see it as enlightened today by what lay ahead. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, according to the plan proposed for the development of the next year's economic and business committee, is the space between 30 billion and 2022. Of these, the Pension Funds are supposed to be able to take out 10 billion. Their investment needs are about 150 billion per year, and soon they will have bought up the whole of Iceland. Where, then, will they go to get their money? I fear that this can completely change the nature of the pension fund, and it will ultimately lead to our living with funds that have become a kind of projection funds. [[The president calls.]] It's one of Invenge's concerns. I'm asking why. Senator: Does she not have a measure of anxiety for the future of the pension fund and their role in Icelandic society? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u164	Mr. President. Yeah, I think there's a good reason to be concerned about how the pensions are going to fit in the environment that seems to remain the same. It has been said in the discussion that their need for investment is about 200 billion, but their allowance is only 10 billion for the next seven years. But space is only 30 billion. That's why the pension fund would be 10 billion. Then you wonder, " What is left for others? ' Of course, the pension fund has had a serious problem since the currency capital was put on business. Now it's a so-called SALEK conference in the air, and it's signed. The question of how many enter it. Isn't there a part of that agreement, as I understand it, that part of an ideal people, improved future terms, should be increased payments into a pension fund? It will then be the time for the herd to face an even greater need to put money on the interest of their companions. Here, in our small economy, this is not enough, so the problem may be even greater than expected for them to make the money, some 200 billion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u165	Mr. President. So I mention the pension fund that I think most people agree that they are among the basic building blocks of the Icelandic community. They are sometimes given an example of how successful we have been in building Iceland and are the envyes of other nations. We've listened to Invenge. We have listened to the harsh criticisms of many times and experiences, and history has shown that they have been right in many things, although not always. Now they have presented their criticism to this matter, as it is now being observed. They have a measure of anxiety for the future with regard to the pension system. Some cases have been reported. Councilmen that representatives of Invenge have attended council meetings and have explained their views. We have also been able to read about their attitude in the media. One of the things they said to the Group of Commonwealth was that they feared that unchanged the issue, as presented by the government, would be transformed by the pension system, that would change from the present form that has raised so much respect, both of us who live the land and others, to be a system of passage that would be exactly what we wanted to avoid and what other nations live on, but would look to us as an example of how to achieve a good financial system. That's why I feel a little bit sorry when it's being run over by the government without anyone sitting at the General, the public and organization like Invenge being allowed to use their X-ray eyes on it. I'm asking why. A senator: Does she not believe that if men had taken steps to work together, they could have agreed on the matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u166	Mr. President. It's all about working together, not just talking about it, but doing it in action. There, the government has completely failed in this big case, unfortunately. Because it could have been said only that the government had given the language a good word, and it could have continued to work together. Since then, it's just completely failed. Of course, the labor movement and other members and the pension system are to be included in such a large and large national interest. All of this is under, the companies of the country, the public. There's no small deal here. But they choose to lock themselves in with it, to feel, to me, always to the Secret Bank. If this works out well and works out, the government will accept the compliment. If, of course, you hope you don't, the bat will sit in the soup, he will be responsible for this because he would have put up with this stability program that is being spoken of as being able to come to the balance of payment. I'm asking you, where are the media involved? Is everyone sleeping in a bramble sleep in the whole affair? And, Invenge, where is their torches on fire now? That is how you can ask questions in general. The labor movement? This is no small interest in the future of the pension fund and their future investment needs. I'm asking, "Where are all the members to stand? This issue is not to be taken this way in calmness, as if we were accepting something trivial. Rather, it is a matter of great importance to the nation for the long future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u167	Mr. President. I have to agree with the final speaker on this matter to the extent that here, I suppose, in the discussion of these matters, it is best to let go of its final hand. This is the last General talks on this huge case. True, this bill focuses mainly on technical factors, but it is part of the greatest economic operation. In fact, the secretary of finance even noticed that he was the largest economic action in the history of Iceland. Didn't I notice right there? Yet, it is not so remarkable in the highest eyes. Ministers, presidents of the government, but not to be seen here in discussions about the matter. But it really is, Mr. President, that we are in this discussion, and then perhaps some short discussion on this matter, letting go of the final hand of this case and the rest is out of our hands. Is it strange, then, that the General wants to take the time to discuss it? And it would be inappropriate to do so. Ministers would be here to answer questions about this matter? Yes, I would have thought so. V.E.G. Unfortunately, the secretary of finance has not been involved, he was only seen running at the Assembly Hall in the afternoon and disappeared, as well as losing the highest power. After just entering the nose, the prime minister is very quick and has then played the game with his foot soldiers in an answer. There are various ways to discuss this subject. I'm playing with myself in my mind to do a little exercise and become a participant, and imagine that this case is now in the hands of the United States government and the left greens, we're serving this package at the General Assembly and our friends in the forwarding party are in a position of government. In view of their presentation during their last term, what likely would be their speech? Is it possible that there would be a form of slavery to foreign demands or to a treasure of vultures? Linkind? Or do they recall the metaphor taken by the poet, the Einar Kristjánsson son of Hermund, who spoke of the destructive disease that afflicted some men, in another context, when it came to the position of a foreign army? That is not different. Of course, it would be a great joke to make the role of the Agency in this case, the company at the highest level. The prime minister thus spoke of foreign demands, nominated them, and spoke up as if it were not possible to get close to them; they should not be talked to unless they were only wearing the bat, but the things that now are not working, had to be done in a psalm. V.E.G. The prime minister is now leading a government that is negotiating with the demanding workers, and he is truly giving them a substantial discount from the financial obligations they had been charged with paying a full stable tax. This is where they've covered it well today, and I think the film has become clearer, or I hope so, of the creative process used to blow out the scope of this stability or stability process compared to the tax. It is obvious that this is done and that there are some of the steps involved. You're right, and I'm saying it, a respectable president, that I'm not interested in going into that mud pit. I just want to see if it's enough and if they've shot up the target. I'm really worried about that, unfortunately, that I did. What leads to confusion in this regard is that men do not make a reasonable distinction in my opinion of the portion of the problem that is cleared out at the beginning of the procedure and the other driver into the future, because despite guaranteeing funding of it to seven years, or what it is now, it remains there. It remains as the requirements of a local resident, although longer in the United States, do so. For example, I find it extremely difficult to accept that the foreign claimors or the reorganized communities with the releases of bonds become financiers of national banks and that it is a financing for a little longer than the loan they owe the state today, that it can be considered to be a permanent means of making full money, as well as a total of 74 billion direct tax pay on state funds. Is that what they're trying to tell us? You'd think so, given how it's set up. It's a little worried when you start going over it better. Some of these versions will grow. As so far as we're concerned, we'll expect more and more from now on if the seas are any bit light, excluded from all of that, and can leave the country every month. To draw that image, it should be enough that this is part of the problem, part of a foreign source's position in the economy here. That's a big worry. Then, in the present time line, the demanding oceans will go out first. There's been a lot of talk about it, and often the famous textor's metaphor that we only have one shot in the gun. But it's beginning to disseminate a little bit if this happens in this order that the demands of the crew go out first and out of the New Year's conventions, then trying to get into the offer of deportations, and then later, and then trying to set up some plan of how the seas will be lifted from other sources. I'm just saying, Mr. President, nothing better fail if it's true that we only have this one shot. And of course we do. As soon as you agree to the proposals or the bills of the fragments in the province or the Supreme Court, the case is finished with them. It has, of course, been promised in advance that this is done on the basis of their receiving an exception from the currency capitals, for this is in its nature an application for annuity of the currency to take out the money, every last chicken that remains to be paid the responsorts they are required to rely on, which are in the direct budget of only 379 billion dollars. And inside that number, both banks are actually counted to the top. There is a significant difference between that and the extent of the problem that the analysts themselves, the Sentencingman, and others have said is present, 800 billion plus/minus, who are living with their explanatory economic accounts here in the economy, make a total of them, if all thought. That is why people are trying to list the counterweight measures - when all is thought to be and picked up, including things that had fallen either, all kinds of things, such as loans, operating expenses, the tax pay of the rest of them, the lengths of the Land Bank, and so forth, perhaps get up to the same amount but not by direct stability. That's totally obvious. So I let myself repeat and continue to review my doubts and concerns in this case, not because I don't want it to work out well for us, but I really hope, but I just say, "Nothing's better. I have to tell it from the bottom of my heart that in this case I wanted to have a better conviction that it would be okay than I have doubts, especially when this is split up in this way, and everything will be done and done by the largest part of this, which, of course, is getting out of the economy. It will be too late to repent after death if things go wrong. I also think that even if this works, and even if it proves to be true, these measures together are neutral, temporarily, at least, so that the next few years, we don't have an equal problem of payment - I don't question that it is, not in all main matters - it's not enough to think so. We must have reasonable conviction for the future, for ourselves, for our pensions and for the like. Pension funds, which now have more than 150% of GDP in clean property, are, in fact, an uncomfortably large part of the economy already, should begin to receive additional funds if wages fall here in the general funds to the same extent that they are in the public. There's no small insignia in the pension fund in the next few years if the pay goes up to 15.5%. So within a few years, what will be the need for investments? 200 billion nets a year, something like that? How are we going to put it in the economy? The future draws them to include and more than 30% of GDP in pure property to pay the pensioners at the time of their share. [[The president calls.]] And it's no small thing, Mr. President, under the Icelandic nation. [[The president calls.]] That thing's slow in these panels.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u168	Mr. President. Hv. A senator made the subject of the possibility that both banks would be worth less than shown in the calculations of the government. I don't understand what's going on. I don't see why. A senator, but as I understand it, it would, in effect, cause the crowning property to be smaller and therefore would not have a negative impact on financial stability. But that's another story. The fall of sin comes from today. Of course, when men refuse to accept the fact that they may be weaknesses in this matter, there are many people's attitudes. I say know how, I'm not saying it. But after the discussion today, it seems to me that there are factors that would need to be considered much better than they have been. What happens, however, is that it will not appear tomorrow, it will not appear next week, not next year. It appears first after five, seven, even ten years. Only then will we find out if we've come to the finish line by means of the stability program. Hv. A senator made it a subject of delinquency and referred to our Einar from Hermunds. Now it's allowed to do so. That is already the case, and I'm sure I'll remember it to the highest level. Prime Minister did not want to go on the business trip. He thought it would break the treason next time. On the other hand, I'm going to give myself the highest commendation. A government for finally seeing the approach that the Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir's government had, and I went over here earlier tonight, was right. It was based on contracts. The question, though, is: Was the trust provided by the present government used sufficiently? I have doubts, and that's why I have serious doubts that I can follow this bill even if I wanted to. [[The president calls.]] But you don't think why. A senator could have reached an agreement if the government and others had been allowed to address the case as in the time of the last government? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u169	Mr. President. With regard to the likely value of banks or their possible retail price, it is quite simple in the case of Iceland banks, everything the bank makes under full name prices is just a loss for the state. That's less stability, off-limits. I am no special philosopher in evaluating the value of banks, but one thing I know about the Icelandic banks is, they're first in Iceland, and maybe they don't feel around the world, or even in this country, especially on the tip of buying in them. Second, they are highly financed. Their money is a very high percentage of their economic activities. That's good. They were set out to be very strong and have between 24% and 273/428% in capital. But it also means that it is difficult to achieve a lot of fruitage on its own. However, this kind of money will probably not be possible or allowed to be paid much off because there are rules that require large financial resources. When it is added to the rise of banks over the past few years, it has been based, not on a strong foundation, but on an upgrade to a library, it is not likely that they are particularly good at buying because they are naturally expensive because there is a lot of money in them but a weak foundation. I don't feel that they would approach the retail ratios as perhaps the strongest and best - run of Europe's banks or elsewhere, so I seriously doubt that they would go to a value of 0.6◯0.7 times more. Is part of the problem stored? Yes, that's obvious, and it's accepted in the Office of the Bank. For example, it shows a fundamental difference between the stability process and the stability process, that in the stability process a part of the problem is stored in the form of a commitment fund. But I've always spoken to it that it would be good for this to be a reasonable way of making a deal, but it has to be good enough for both parties. I felt suspicious, and I still feel, how fast the crews were jumping on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u170	Mr. President. Like what? A senator said that the outcome of the contract must be good for both. There must be doubt that it is beneficial enough for us Icelanders. What is the final test? It's not the crowns and the money we'll get out of it. I can accept, for example, what happened. The members of the council of Sigríður Andersen and Hrafn Höfni Gunnarsson earlier tonight, although I believe that there is a view that remains to be looked at if both roads are equally valid. But the conclusion now solves Iceland's problem with the crown and ensures financial stability in the future. Sadly, this and her leading have raised doubts. There have been questions that have not been answered. Indefence, who has proved quite true about many things, not all things, but about so many things, has had doubts, for example, about whether this course will work in the future. Indefence's view of the future has been based on a reasoned view that indicates that a cow is being shot off by the problem of the crown is entering the future. This will not be evident until perhaps after 2022. That's the danger, and that's why I think we had to look into it much more. The best thing would have been if you could have reached an agreement between all people and different parties involved in this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u171	Mr. President. At least I'm going to hope that next year it won't be clear that we've made the shot. We have a dramatic year ahead of us if they're going to be both of us trying to make the highlands, snow - handed, up to 300 billion dollars. ... tobuytheheads to other sources. To what extent will humans rely? How does the prospect of payment immediately come to an end when the next year has actually come to an end? But, in part, we will probably not see what it will do in the end until a few years have passed because some of the problem is stored. In many respects, the methodology presented here is very reasonable, in a sense selective, though the benefits are forced in both cases. That is, on the other hand, a cruel tax or something more beneficial to a stabilising process. Of course, it is understandable that it will then be more beneficial because people are left to seek it for themselves. That is why the presentation in Harpa in spring was so overcrowded, for who wouldn't see through that had no reason to offer some stable donations instead of paying the tax if it was exactly as valid? No, of course, it is in nature that maps were expected to offer something more beneficial. Of course, the big question is again: Is the discount too great? Are they being treated too well? I had long ago made the impression of this position that there were only two ways out of this, except for some kind of pressured taxation, recording, or currency head for years. On the other hand, there was some kind of stability enterprise, or trade, where all the credit property and all kinds of farms were bought by them on one board at a price of 1 dollar. [[The president calls.]] It would have been possible too.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u172	Mr. President. The attitude I have in my case has been expressed in some comments today, and I'm not going to extend the discussion too much by giving a very long talk. However, I would like to highlight a few points. At first, I'd like to wish the highest. A government successful and enchanted in its beginning. This is the final part of a long period of restoration, beginning in 2009 with the minority government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir and promoting the majority of the government that began. The present government, as I think, has really tried to get these things into the best place. However, I believe that it would have been better to have much more consultation than the highest. The government has had this case. In particular, I recall that in recent governments, it was tried by prisoners to control the opposition, to inform her of what was going on. However, I think that led to a good deal of agreement over how to play the final part of the great symphony then played the entire ideal period. It was in the spirit that the current ultimate. A government, at least in the beginning, came up with a measure of consultation and initially offered a consultation. This was followed by a right hand of reconciliation for me and the council members of the government. The authorities said it was important that this final phase, which would result in the removal of a currency pot, would be the most broad agreement. I've always beaten the belly on that matter. Executing a currency stand and the related laws are most likely to be equally important if not the more important emergency laws that were present in the past made very successful. These two songs I believe are the most dramatic thing the General has ever agreed to do in the republicary history. That's why I say the community matters. I think it would've been the best. Hence, the government had taken further steps to include the opposition to government and to accept its counsel, but also support. During the last few weeks and days, I feel that it is particularly bad, how little the discussion has been. Actually, I feel the highest. A government, no matter what it is that it might be, that whatever it is that it is, it's a government, no matter what it is that it is, and whatever it is that we have seen at the highest level. The minister of finance, to confirm the decision that the Council had made regarding the offer of forced agreements, in other words, the World Council's view was of no importance to him. However, within the past few weeks, critical discussions at the General Assembly have made a difference. In particular, I recall that when the Scrollman delayed his famous meeting to inform him of the situation and in what way he was going to suggest that the matter be resolved, the people were ousted and a considerable time passed before the main outcome was submitted. What happened in the meantime? Yes, they listened to the criticism that came out of the Generals' sales, and it came out of the Generals that it was impossible to finish the case so that this large and important bank, Iceland, would be in the hands of foreign parties. The original proposal was in that, as noted by some of us and also by Inveffence, it was evident that Iceland's Bank would land outside Iceland's border. I've been thinking, even in the past government, that it would be most successful before the completion of the case that both banks would be in Icelandic hands. At that time I was not alone in that case, there were also many members of the government, and on that matter perhaps you could refer to the 2013 speech of the President of Már Guðmundsson of the Bankers. There, in a very clear way, he pointed out the dangers of the bank's long - standing lastingly, once it was completed with worn - outs and demanding ones, in the hands of men who wanted to use the opportunity to lick its inside of it and to use it. I was from the beginning of thinking that it should have been done to assist the state of the people who have the currency, the pension fund which had quite some of it, and to allow them as the social capitalist of our Iceland to profit from it. I specifically mention this because this example, the final change in the last record, shows that the intervention of the II council and the organization outside the Council, and the criticism, changed the case. I believe that it would have been possible to add a head to a solidarity and possibly to change the case so that, some of us, we would not have to, at least, doubt whether this one bullet we have in the gun barrel that Már Guðmundsson the bank manager has so artfully drawn up the target. The danger is the same as it has been seen in various members of the council, and perhaps in some cases the most aggressive. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, that the bullet hit the finish line. But as I said before, there will be a fall of sins after our day. I believe that if the actions under which this case is being taken out of hand in the halls of Generalis, it won't be done until first of all, after 2020,2022, and then maybe I'm pointing to the fact that until then we have a good plan. But behind that time, we're running a little blind into the water. I have felt that the attitude of the best members of the board who have suggested this is somewhat related to what has sometimes been called the Icelandic view, this will be successful because men have been unable to respond to the criticism that has been made and that it is apparently a matter of exorbitantly shooting a considerable cow off the crown. Of course, it's a cause of fear. There may be a time when they are released or when there are events in the Icelandic community that lead to their growth in legs more quickly than today, wanting to be a raid. This, of course, is what we need to look at. When I'm at the highest. Prime Minister Sigmundur, Davíð, the son of Gunnlaugsson, gave his great speech at the forwarding party convention, which I recall was April 9, when I rejoiced. I thought it was the highest. The prime minister would be there to do exactly the right way. The way to the highest. In the spirit of the three - fold approach that had been developed in the past government by the then minister of finance, Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, and his successors, along with the bank manager. But the guy who carved out the water map was the World Cash Fund. The sciences to the current marine maps were introduced by the AGS as early as 2010, and the three - aspect approach was based on the following: First, the stock of deportation was to be processed by an AGS that had flowed into Icelandic society, and when the government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir took over a total of 750 billion years. They did not go very well at first, but by the time the current government began, they had been rubbed down to 300 billion, more than 50 percent of the dollars in the book of Psalms. When the current government made its plans for spring, her number one was about to finish that job. The Icelandic crowns, which were still in the Federal Bank, were to be harvested and put out of the country, and the rest of them would be locked up on the small or no future. That's what I agreed to. There was a reason why this was to be done before the two men went to chapter 2. What was chapter two? He was taking down the crowns that were within the scraps, and it was important to take away the paper and the leftovers before and do what could be done to neutralize them. Because it is clear that, at the end of chapter two, it was much shorter in the custody of a currency school and that it would create a legal problem for the owners of an amputate on farms to sit still, waiting in view of a good interest status in Iceland from 2010 to the next year, they would be able to avoid, which was the official mission and aim of two governments, to cut down about 100 billion. Of course, there is still much to be subtletting when such benefits are evident. Now, however, the invitations on the Off-counters have gone wrong. They have not been performed, and they clearly will not be done until the two chapters that we are in now have been completed. That chapter is very similar to our previous government map. For example, it may have been two most prominent features in the scene of which the bank manager Már Guðmundsson held for example at a public meeting held on the side of a group then known as snowbed.is and was in effect taking over the farms and taking it to the hands of the Icelandic state. A couple of of them were also aware that the banks fell into Icelandic hands, and then Icelanders remembered the considerable profit that would then stand against the expense of the collapse when it came to selling the banks. And a currency that was to be paid to pay for and help some of them get off their property was to be attended and cooperated with the pension fund. It was clear that when the banks were to be sold on the market, a great deal of profit would come. But that was okay because the pension fund is a social capital. We all own them, and they were able to profit, just as they received certain contracts that were then the minister of finance, Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, stood before which improved the position of the pensions that they were looking for, at a great loss of about 10 billion. No one objected, because it's a social capitalite. It's all ours. In this respect, I believe that the journey of the present government was excellent up to this point. True, she's messed up the first chapter, i.e. The invitation, to rub down the rest of the deltas. But her goals regarding housekeeping were exactly the same as those of the previous government. The third chapter of this journey was to release a dollar in a way that would put on a hair eviction tax. It was always available according to the logs set up by the AGS and the Navy during the last term that the eviction tax would have to be high enough to cover its emissions in financial stability. Those were the exit points. That's why I was very happy when I felt the highest. Prime Ministers are thinking things exactly right when he introduced his idea of a stable tax at the forward party party party party party party. I understood it. I had to figure out why he was 39%. That's exactly what it took for Iceland to stand just as right behind their currency reserves, on financial stability into the future. So I allowed myself on the day when it was announced that I would support the stable tax. But Adam did not live in that Paradise for long. I was sitting at the screen like probably thousands of Icelanders when the live air was broadcast and people introduced all that operation. I saw the numbers, and I think I've looked at every veil the two fine experts came up to explain it to the Americans. I never heard a steady move. I never noticed a cornea that I later found online with the word stability. There was never any explanation that by means of the stable tax tax, another way was designed, a way of supplying stability. A selective way, certainly, a positive way in itself to be taken advantage of by the demands. It was never reported what we had suspected, and I once asked one of the highest. Secretary of this hearing whether a secret discussion with the demanding workers was in progress. To this day, however, such discussions have not taken place. V.E.G. The secretary of finance, however, was so serious that in his history for the stable tax bill, he made known that a conversation had been conducted with a company of demands in London. As you can remember, he flew from the outside directly to the meeting in Harpa, London. It was later discovered that he had a conversation with a demanding worker. Today's name is in the mouth of the highest. Secretary of finance living conversation. Of course, there was no more than negotiations. The bill that is the basis for this discussion, and we now hold at the High Council confirms this. This is being made up of changes because the demands have been in a position to promote wishes toward the government for further improvement in their convenience. I've said today that I object that the high Council is in such a way that it prefers official national legislation for them in particular. Why do I allow myself to be opposed to it? Because I believe and trust the government. She's said to me several times that the two roads are equally valid. Hv. paritaprevir Sigríður Andersen, and I'd like to think so too. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson talked about it as if these roads were, of course, less valid. But if the government tells me that, a member of the council with considerable experience, but who has no place to get involved because I have no evidence to do so, I have to believe it. I asked one of the highest. A minister who is involved in the case, is there any fear of going to the stable tax because he would not pass the legal course? The reason was that at first I doubted it myself. Government officials insisted that the stable tax will last completely, and there would be no fear on the part of the government for any court to tear it apart. Then I think there's evidence to believe the government when it says it's the same legitimate way. However, it has now been observed that it is influenced by individual senators, former financial ministers, groups of people, Invenence, who are known to have the ability and ability to look into these matters in the flesh. It is a challenge that the way out of this special way, which, of course, skips the demands with a fixed volume less than they had to pay on the stable tax, is effective. I'm good enough to stop right now. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, huh? Harðardóttir Oddný's a question of whether you can shoot a nest or go under the goal. I believe that it should be taken seriously when two former financial ministers, who have very objectively participated in the discussion, reflect on this. I believe that when a panel of experts in various fields, such as Invenge, make comments and doubts, people should consider the matter. Mr. President. As soon as I wish the government any success and hope that this will work out for her, it has nevertheless prevented me from doing what is supposed to be my right as a representative of the legislature agreement, to be able to look into the matter in the flesh. I'm gonna have to take it for a living. [[The president calls.]] I have to take the Secret Bank. He has changed his attitude to one important point in the final stage of his life. Like Tómas, I allow myself to say, " I need to put my hand in the wound to believe. ' But I don't get it. That's why I won't be able to support the case, but I'm not going to lie down against it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u173	President. I cut it down in my speech anyway. The senator was amazed that the minister of finance, and indeed both presidents of the administrations, had virtually agreed and published at the outset that they agreed to the case and wanted it to pass through without the presence of the Council of II. They were ready and immediately declared that this was what they were going to do, i.e. To replace this stability framework with a tax stability method they had previously spoken to. It is not only past the General Assembly that they decided to make that decision but also past the employee organisations and pension funds; it is of utmost importance for both groups to know the outcome of this matter. I have not found a reason why the directors of the administrations have decided to work so hard to do the way that the minister of finance itself described in Darp in summer as an advantage. It was an advantage, a road to stability to pay. It was not merely that the tax route was the first option; rather, it was the course he now offers. Still, I understand this turn of events. Secretary of finance today because there is no comparison today on these two roads. We don't see the comparison, we don't get data to compare it well, but we're just told these two ways are equally valid. We don't know, we don't have any data on it. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of what he believes is the ultimate cause. The secretary of finance and, in fact, the presidents of both administrations have chosen the way on board - which was described on their part as an advantage during the summer - rather than the first way they recommended the stable tax. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u174	Mr. President. I don't have an answer. I am the most complex soul life. Ministers of absolute alienities, and I find it particularly strange to the highest degree. The prime minister would have chosen this way. Yes, during the last term, he said that the next time people wanted to do a business trip, the council was to stop. I'll think about it before then. paritaprevir Björn Valur Gíslason to speak for the negotiations at Icesave 2 led to a great confusion at the General Assembly. V.E.G. During the past month, the prime minister took up his power of war and waved it all the way to the point that, above the heads of the demanding men, he was going to do it with great intensity. But Icesave 2, at the end of the day, cost 45 billion. In contrast, if that were gone, it would have resulted in the removal of currency lords two or three years earlier. Each year under currency, an Icelandic company costs 80 billion dollars per business scheme so that the policy, if it had been left at Icesave 2, would have saved nearly 200 billion dollars from the Icelandic community. Now, however, it is the man who would boot at anyone who wanted to go along the contract route during the last term who would take part in providing the highest tax rate in Iceland, which is ten times the cost of Icesave 2. I'm covered with a clear change of thought. Prime Minister, which is why I have to grieve. A senator by which I cannot explain.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u175	Mr. President. I am aware of the decision made by the chairman of the board to have chosen the very advantage they presented during the summer - they actually introduced the first option, saying, "There is another way in which there is an agreement for stability, which would be of great value. " This was said by the chairman of the Independence Party and the Supreme Court. The secretary of the finance of Bjarni, son of Benediktsson. Based on the presentation, which was then on the stable tax, in view of this landing, taking into account the marked conflict between these two classes on the extension of the Bank of America over a year ago, i.e. that the subject would be negotiated - on one hand, the line being the highest. The secretary of finance wanted to go away, negotiate the matter, and bring it to its end. And I agree with that. It's always better to make a deal, but it really matters how it's made. There need to be good deals. But the best way to finish business is to make contracts, that is always the case in human relations regardless of what they are. These arguments have been crystal crystal clear during this year's presentation in the Harpa when a stable tax system was introduced, which was not due to the fact that the cornea said: "There has been a deal. The espionage has been negotiated, when officials had left their homes and were replaced by officials. This has cost a great deal of money, these disputes between the presidents of the political parties, and it has cost us a lot of money, delays in the case. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he can imagine what these efforts have cost us for money, and he agrees with the diagnosis I am trying to draw up here, that there were differences between the leaders of the political parties in this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u176	Mr. President. There is no doubt that there was a strong conflict between the heads of the administrations regarding the payment of this case. V.E.G. As a result, the prime minister was very opposed to the prospect of going into a penitentiary. Secretary of finance wanted, he always wanted to go on the contract. If so, recall here that the first talk was the highest. The secretary of finance moved to the General of his new office that the capitals were like a flashing sign of caution over Iceland. This was discussed with prime minister's debate. He also said that within six months, the ladder would be a big step toward removing the capital master. The six months have now turned into three years, and the currency has not yet been abolished. I don't think there's going to be any significant step in taking them off until late 2017. There may be a new government when that step is finally taken, something important. V.E.G. A government has never been able to appreciate, and we haven't done that, how much the currency capitals cost the nation. However, business has done so, and in February 2013, a business council published information that came in the media, including the island, and that is where I have that number. In this regard the management board considered that each year under capital capital authors cost an Icelandic company 80 billion. I believe the fight and conflict between the administrations of the administrations have at least been delayed by an 80 billion currency charge. That is what this conflict has cost. It was the highest. Prime Minister who strongly opposed Icesave 2 of the negotiations then. In view of all of this, it will likely work hard on the 400 billion that this may have cost the nation of Israel.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u177	A respectable president. Hv. A senator has been talking about the government's presentation of budget neglect held last summer. Hv. A senator has claimed that it was mainly a stable tax, not a stable tax. In fact, it has been said in speeches that the stability conditions were some of the most important things, but the priority was the stable tax. Well, maybe. A senator just described it a little for me? In front of me, I have a presentation that shows that the government's solution to briers is twofold, one on the other, stable conditions, and if broken - up conditions fail to put a stable tax on the worn - out. This cornea, number 13 of this presentation, is particularly shown on so - called ship transport, the stability project, and the stable tax. That is why I ask, " Why have this point been misdirected and referred to in this presentation so that it was merely a constant tax? ' As a result, I'd like to ask who. That's not what I'm talking about. Things have not changed since the summer of this presentation, and we agreed to a council in agreement and harmony with both the law of stable taxes and the changes to the rules of forced contracts, various laws. Hv. A senator is suspicious of the progress of the stability project, and I ask: Is there no suspicion in his mind regarding the stable tax?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u178	If I started to answer these three questions in a reverse fashion, I was, as I mentioned in my earlier speech, suspicious of the stable tax because I thought I would stand up for a legal issue related to him. I was assured of it above this chair of the highest. advises that he was definitely safe, and indeed outside a council of the Secret Bank employees who declared to me and to my council the great legal work that was behind it. Then I thought this route was definitely there. I want to go the potty way, that's how I've changed since I've been chasing, and that's why I think it's nice to go, it's definitely destroying the contaminated crowns from the crew's ships. About the second question, about what has changed since spring, gives a reason. A senator may find the wrong basis if it applies to me by changing my view. Hv. A senator can examine its final payment at the General Assembly, and then she will see that I was not present at that vote. I left her because I simply didn't want to be responsible for this because of being suspicious. Regarding the repeated reference to the lack of stability in the presentation in Harpa, it is still possible. When a senator gets to his house before bedtime, replay the Senate Internet talks I gave earlier and earlier today. I'll tell you completely clearly that it appeared on one cornea and one ooze. A senator informs me there was a clear 13th. However, this was made clear at the end of the presentation or after the introductions ran over many corneas. I never saw that cornea on the screen. I've claimed it, and it hasn't been refused. [[The president calls.]] In case of a moment. A senator examines the news about the Hörp meeting, too, does not feel the stability of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u179	A respectable president. I have to say, I think this presentation is the most amazing thing in the world. This summer the discussion of all these matters turned to the stability conditions. There was a disagreement, and it was suggested and disputed, including on the side of the government, and, in some respects, justified in my opinion, that the stability conditions were not sufficiently described at that time. It is absolutely impossible to claim today that this has not been discussed this summer. Why did the Council specifically agree to a complex legal bill on the alteration of various regulations if it was not for the sake of the possibility of a failed contract instead of a stable tax? It was even openly said that the stable tax should be the whip needed by the worn - out regimes to complete years of acute decades of work on the ready. It was necessary to place this similar stable tax on it so that men can amplify this work and get out with the money they have here and possibly have the option to go along, to guard the conditions that the Navy has set up and the government and, hopefully, a solidarity of Congress. Well, I'll bet you it's absurd that only one cornea will show up. You can look up these transparencys from June 8th. The whole presentation is about the stability project, and these two ways the demands are offered to take out their possessions. I can't wait for this to be done. Since men are calling for a more objective discussion, I think it's time to make the most of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u180	Mr. President. I'm going to dismiss the whole thing. Hv. A senator can convince himself if she plays recordings of the above thoughts. The prime minister and financial minister of the Haurpah sees that there is not a question of stability. It is as if those fine gentlemen do not know that there is a term. Something else, though, came in later on the day. Until that day, at least the first discussion of that matter began at a convention. Prime Minister still on stable taxes. All the numbers that slid from the mouth at the highest. Prior to, at, and after the presentation in Harpa, the Icelandic state would receive 850 billion. He never talked about stability. Why? Because he did not want to go that way. That is why the president of the government, the leaders of the board of directors, undertook this issue until autumn. They were still dealing with the issue on the day the Council was supposed to give their presentation to an economic and business committee. That's why. Hv. A senator can go through any news, at least during the days following the presentation in the Harpa, without finding stability. At least I couldn't find it. The reason I finally went out of votes when people were setting this up in the summer was because I realized in my discussion that this stability tax was not meant to be done. They were thinking about everything else, and at that point I didn't think I had the basis to follow it. Earlier, I had expressed great joy at the council and in the media as to the stability tax. It's that simple now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u181	A respectable president. It is pointless to hear a member of the management board and the head of the Committee opinion of a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee interpret the stable tax announced in theHrape in some as a sort of whip or possibly punishment if the demands of the old banks were not to be directed by the government to pay steady taxes. That made me feel that it was an unscrupulous comment. First, the expression means that if they did not obey governments, taxes would have to be imposed on them, they would have to pose some threat. Second of all, it doesn't stand an opinion because, like a what? paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Aphphénsson went over here earlier, that at this summer's presentation, only a tax was introduced, only discussed on stable taxes. That's exactly what happened. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Aggressor to the officials and directors of the administrations discussed a stable tax and a return of 850 billion dollars. It was the big thing that was shown, and the whole thing got lost this summer. In fact, a better look at all these 80 or 100 corneas, a number of them, showed that they had already been negotiated. The deadline had been negotiated. It never stood to go someplace taxable. There was no threat of going on a tax route. Today's data show that there is no threat. The secretary of finance and the Council Bank felt that it was a bad way because it would delay the case, slow down the situation, and allow the sea to be removed. Hence, it was never due to them last summer to tax the swellings. Rather, it was a stage. It was a particularly designed display and made the initiative of the Agency, who found it difficult to swallow because they had not been allowed to use the shotguns and spikes to hit the vultures, though they had been talking for years about the need to do. By the time they arrived, they lied to the people on a live Hörp broadcast by claiming that a stable tax should be provided at 850 billion dollars. When it was better to check the data, it was wrong. Like what? A senator earlier said that it was not serious. Rather, it was primarily a threat, some whip set off. There was a plan for everything else. There was never any sense. How serious it is when leaders of the government come out and say one thing, hold something up, promise the nation that things are going wrong now but that they do not mean it! It confirmed the dog. paritaprevir Andersen's career here also, that this would have been a show for the fools who run out of stock so they'd be afraid of a government that threatened bats and shotguns if they didn't give up a stable supply, or they'd get paid. This proves to be in the bill we're discussing here tonight, which includes a procrastination of the case. They're fixing the situation even more day after day, week after week and month after month to the needs of demands that will be prepared by carrying out the so - called stability process by letting us get our money to pay off debts and recover our possessions from the seas. It was some of them all faked with the stable tax. That was never possible. The other was always the way to go, although it had not been said. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u182	Mr. President. We have been, several members of the council of the government, deeply concerned and disagreed with the handling of this case. I spoke earlier in my first talk about the speed in the language. On October 7, the case was sent out for review, the case of further appeals on the coupon, the way of the stability. The probationary period was six days, to 13th October. And in returned the reviews of broken governments, financial companies organizations and government tax managers. First of October 28 or two weeks later and a week ago, which reported a week but two weeks ago, a review of the subject was made on the subject of the effects of extramaritals to the three business banks. It was after consultation with the Office of Economic Affairs and a presentation in the government and the Ministry on Economic Affairs. An outstanding feature of the case, then, was only long after the report had passed. For example, the Bank Office and the National Association of Pension Funds were offered a review. They didn't return a review. After seeing this presentation and realizing how to finish the case and after all the adjustments made by the National Association of Pension Funds, I wondered if they wanted something to say. I, as one of their owners, surely hope that the pension funds are sneering over the case. But the deadline was long past, and the case is now November 5, 2nd. and the effects of the stability efforts have been very little discussed in the public field. I would like to agree that the matter is complicated that it is not available except for those who have a deep and profound understanding of it, and who have read through the 30 - page database, where it really needs to use all its attention in trying to boil up what is involved. And not all conditions are clear. Because we are talking about a huge interest in the Icelandic population and we have wondered whether the effects on the payment of the population will be acceptable or too dangerous. We ask: Why was an independent person not asked to appreciate the value of the banks? The term "named " here refers to the fact that it is completely unrealistic. We ask: What's the plan for further disposal for the pension fund, business and home? What you can read from these data is that the suspension of the currency is actually being postponed for all but foreign demands and that the pension funds get a small window. I think it's a very serious matter. I studied it in my first talk. We're legalizing that people have to pay for these funds. It seems that the remuneration into this fund should be increased, and we can't comment on what will happen to the investments of the pension fund in the next few years. I thought it would be reasonable to believe that the matter would get a review of the Lands Association of Pension on the effects of all of this. We don't know what went on between the Federal Bank, the Ministry of Economics, and the demands. It is not easy to read how these demands will come about. I want to know if it's the good stuff you want, and the question is that it's right for them to receive special treatment over the public in Iceland. It has been read that there are some 450 billion discounts from the tax route. It would be appropriate to provide data that will compare us with that method so that we can examine it properly. 450 billion ain't nothing small. But we need to see and appreciate this. As noted in our case today, it is only natural to make a arrangement that reduces certain uncertainty, but it must be within the normal limits. We have no feeling that this is the case, and our suspicion is very strong. We also want to get a more detailed report on the safety of the message route than the tax route. I remember that when I took part in a vote, it was very clear that this should be a safe way, completely in accordance with law and constitution. One very good question, which is a conscientious question to the minister of the current government: Why is the presentation not clearer? It's just the phrase that encourages suspicion. I'd also like to know if in any way the government has responded to the criticism of the Inveffence of the problem. I would like to see a series of articles that answered their concerns. Mr. President. I feel like I'm in a really annoying position. I don't feel that I have answers to questions about the effects that the bill will contribute to the stability progress will generally have on the Icelandic economy. I warn that if we blindly add to the bill, without knowing any further plans for the release of the seagulls, and we get food from the pension fund on them, we're losing the value of the pension fund for those generations now paying them to collect money from a share of their wages, and we're promoting abduction in the Icelandic economy. There are many indications that it has already begun. There I warn of the inoculation of stock markets and housing markets. It is about seven years ago that housing supplies and stockbags exploded along with other events that occurred during the collapse, resulting in enormous damage to the public and to the companies in Iceland. I feel that we senators are supposed to be more responsible than we agreed to make such a dangerous return.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u183	President. Stability agreement on the contribution of the inflammatory farms, i.e. The overall progress and the whole case, it's about cutting back currency heads in Iceland and trying to get this country out of the problems that the oceans and the economic collapse brought on us in their time. The point is that three of the largest business banks in the United States have requested to be granted the release of their property from the seas. The late bank has suggested to the minister of finance that the swollen ones be allowed to carry their possessions out, and the secretary of finance has declared that he agrees with that diagnosis. In fact, the secretary of finance and others have said that the next few weeks and months are to be expected and at the beginning of the next year that a large step will be taken to disintegration of currency school in Iceland. For this reason, I would like to review earlier comments made by the minister of finance and the prime minister for some time since they sat down in the U.S. government in the spring of 2013. On April 23, the head of the Independence Party said that in the months that followed. That same day, the head of the advance party said that the past would not take long. A month later, the prime minister announced that the throne would be removed according to a plan that was based on his idea that was not to be reported. That same day, the prime minister said that these ideas would be revealed in September of that same year. On August 15, 2013, the prime minister announced that he had appointed a special debuncultor, a currency manager. On September 20, 2013, the prime minister said that the past could begin in an predictable future. On October 15, 2013, the minister of finance claimed that the ban was short. On October 16, 2013, the minister of finance said that a major step toward decommission would be announced in the next five months. On October 30, 2013, two years ago, the prime minister said that it would take a short time to eliminate the seas. On November 15, the prime minister announced the order of a special group of counselors for the execution of the past. On November 30, 2013, the prime minister said that the taxation of the swellingers would not delay the ban. Toward the end of January, the prime minister said that the government had only a short time to stop the seas. On February 9, 2014, the secretary of finance said that the ban could begin during the year, i.e. 2014 On February 20, 2014, the prime minister said that it was not a purpose to reveal his secret plan for delinquency. On February 20, 2014, the prime minister also said that evidence from the Federal Bank was asked to tell about government decommissionation. On February 25th, 2014, the secretary of finance told me that the execution of the pensions was in full effect. On March 27, 2014, the secretary of finance said that the ban was a priority for the government. On April 4, 2014, the secretary of finance reported an increase in advisers during the decommissionation. On June 7, 2014, the secretary of finance says that political courage is needed to eliminate seas, etc. On November 11, 2014, a financial minister said that he was hoping to have a public plan for execution by Christmas, i.e. Last Christmas. On January 4, 2015, the prime minister announced that the next step in execution would be taken in the month. On January 9, another group is appointed by the prime minister. By the end of January 2015, the secretary of finance says that the first part of the year will take a major step in the execution of the past, i.e. the first part of this year. On April 10, 2015, the prime minister said that a new plan for delinquency would be submitted before the end of the council, i.e. Last spring. It didn't happen. On April 16, 2015, the secretary of finance said that the process of decommissioning would continue according to a more mixed route, as to this point. On May 22, 2015, the secretary of finance said that next week, i.e., a bill on the release of the ocean was due. in May 2015. Nothing of the sort happened. Now they tell the same people that it will be a big step early next year in removing the spa. We know what steps it is, in fact, it won't be early next year, it'll be first of the afternoons next year that it could possibly happen, and the steps are in that employees will be allowed with their assets out of Iceland while others are sitting there, pensions, companies and homes. And thank you for that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u184	A respectable president. There has been an informative discussion that has taken place here all day. I'll admit I have no understanding of the lack of understanding that many people have. Councilmen have generally described this matter, not just the case under discussion, but the debate has also been over many parts of the world, and people have been discussing total capital crisis. I understand that it takes time for me to get through all that discussion and myself admit that I don't fully understand all the factors of that matter, I don't have a basis for it. But then I have broken the point of my mania, and I rely on a stranger to the matter of failing my understanding. Given how much men have expressed their lack of understanding in this case, I will be much more surprised at the firmness of some. Government officials have responded to what has been called the road of a labour agreement with a stable, stability-making process. It surprises me a little bit. This too has been described as being highly suspicious of the entire issue. Yet, nothing has really changed in this world of broilers, as it were, from the summer when the government introduced its budget release and the General then adopted a law on stable taxes and a change in many of the rules of contracts. In other words, only the natural attitude of some has changed. Congress officials, some of whom were positive in offering these two possibilities, one on the other, a stable tax donation and a stable tax system. I want to make right what I've said here earlier today. In this country, demanding crews who have a legal requirement, demands that are owned by an owner, must be placed completely in place. The problem with that, much more when we do, huh? Councilmen or others have demands in this country, when the legal requirement comes up with a problem of 1,000 billion for an Icelandic population. It's the problem humans are trying to solve here, and that's why a currency has been placed here, I believe, in some way. I'd also like to point out that since the general currency capital was put on, the legal rights of the bank have been made clear in the premise Act of Pension. I refer to 13. It's in the currency law. Qualifications, just as everyone else in Iceland, have the right to take a stand on the request of those who are to be sent to the bank for enforcation. There's no such thing as a demanding sea where everyone else here is. To date, a number of countries have been given an exception from currency authors with various arguments and have met certain criteria. That's what's been lying for the Secret Bank to replace, i.e. Asked for annuity of that which was reserved from the head of the currency. When worn - out victims point out that they are ready to yield something of their country's demands or property, they must have to be taken into account or at least answer it. That's what the Secret Bank has done and has presented to the secretary of finance who has since introduced his position and the Secret Bank of the Economic and Business Committee. The question here was, Is the road to stability superior to the way of a stable tax? On the other hand, is the road to stability better than stability? In terms of the stability tax, there are flaws in this process. Hv. Councilmen have mentioned it here, specifically indicating that there may be some question about the law in the constitution, whether this stable tax is an appropriate means. They refer to this, and of course, it is that the Council would not have agreed to a stable tax law unless they are convinced that he will pass a constitution, that is perfectly clear. But there are other flaws besides this possible legal route that the demanding workers would pass. There is a tendency to make contributions to the so - called payment problem. Some have not contributed as much as others have because some have not so much possessions in this country but have just belongings abroad. These farms may have to sell possessions abroad in order to deliver their stable tax. I allow myself to assert that this is the kind of place that would definitely test the validation tax before the court because the stable tax was put on with reference to the pay-to-payer. If some have not contributed so much - not all done, circumstances are different. [[The point is, can't we try?]] Some have not contributed as much as it might be necessary to pay the tax because they place something to pay in the event that it does not. It's one thing. Another factor is that payment on stable taxes could have serious consequences for today's financial companies because of wearing cash and possessions inside these financial companies, which they would have to release at once in order to pay the stable tax. So there are some flaws. Besides, in my opinion, with the stable tax, if you choose a broiler farm to go a stable tax, you have no control over when the demands will eventually go out with the remaining items. Let us not forget that the stable tax is 39% of its property, it is not 100% property uptake, not at least in one winter. There is no doubt that a pair of broils would remain with their possessions, remember their fruits, possibly remember them growing, and so on along the streets, so that the problem that is aimed to be solved would not necessarily be solved. Of course, an effort was made to make the tax money available to the determined problem. Then they ask: How do the demands come about? I say, "What does it have to do with me? " What's going to happen? Does this work to the members of the council? They're demanding crews who have belongings here, are taking them out, or do what they want to do. They pay stability contributions or stability taxes after incidents, and this concludes the relationship between the European Union and the requirements. How they remain angry over all the coverage to be taken up here, at least in this room. It has been tried to make it hard to believe that consultations have been made with demandsors. Of course, it would be foolish to discuss this matter without getting the views of those who are the best interests of the Icelandic State, the Sentencing Bank, and the demands. Many changes in financial laws performed after a crash have been aimed at helping to break down the fallen financial companies and all such changes have been made to downplay the views of those who have become familiar. These changes have been made. Then it would be fair to agree that many of these changes, including those under consideration in this case, are changes in the rules of contracts based on the fact that the short contracts of this case, the forced agreements of the crew, are not traditional contracts in the sense of bankruptcy laws, which, as generally understood in Iceland, have been restored again, brought back into business with less debt. The agreements discussed are, in fact, a debt of some kind. They aim to end the fallen business. These are the circumstances that we have not known so far to some degree here in Iceland, much less in this vast measure that the missing financial companies really are. Here, too, has been complained that there was no conversation with the nation. I would like to mention, for this reason, that all the data received by the Economic and Business Committee has been publicized. Of course, I drew special attention to the letter shown by the Bank of Iceland, a reply letter to Invenge published on Iceland's Web site, the Economic and Business Committee, gave everyone who was thought to have a point of view and interest, to form a pension fund, an opportunity to give a review of the matter. These people chose not to give consideration to the matter in spite of much discussion, not only in the board since September when the case was presented and then brought up by the committee a month ago, but these matters have been discussed during the past few years and particularly since June 8 of the past. So the only way that people can say anything is by allowing them to communicate viewpoints at various levels. Then I'd also like to mention that a financial and business committee has made special efforts to receive reviews long after the notice has passed, has not made it necessary for anyone to send within a certain period of time. I would also like to mention that, in the context of human choice of emissions - much conflict is made that there is no room for Iceland's equal resources, pension funds, public, business when it comes to disposal - so people make the shoes that the demands go out long before all the rest of us go out. For that reason, I'd like to mention that there is no question when the demands are out. There's no such thing. I'd like to point out that they're going to receive confirmation of a federal hearing for an emergency contract. I think I can claim it isn't before New Year's. It's gonna happen sometime after New Year's. There is no way to tell whether the goats will be lifted at the same time. For the sake of this time, I'm going to leave it alone. I hope so. The senators sleep on it, and tomorrow we'll get everything back to the conference hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u185	V.E.G. President. There is no need to worry about my feelings in a Senate hall tomorrow. It speaks of the lack of understanding for members of Congress. The problem is, not the ignorance of members of Congress, but the lack of preparation for the government. I'd like to start by asking who. A chairman of the matter: Why did she give six days to comment on the matter? Second, I would like to ask her: Does she think that in view of the information on the treatment of stability, it is correct to call the pension fund into the committee and wonder if there is any reason to worry about it? Like what? A senator, of course, told them to talk to all the stakeholders. I'm here as a representative of the public interest system, and I expect to do what. paritaprevir It's going on. Andersen is too.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u186	A respectable president. The deadline was determined, in view of the fact that the committee considered it normal to discuss this matter more quickly than slow because there are, of course, factors there that could give claimers a reason to sell their demands, and somehow create a position in a number of combinations that I cannot even explain. On the other hand, six days is just enough notice for me. However, it was accompanied by the request that the reviews be received after that period, if that is the case. In terms of the possibility of calling for the handler after 2nd. is not the custom here, if I know the truth. Besides, I haven't heard any views from the pension fund that they think they need it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u187	V.E.G. President. What a concern it would be if the pension funds didn't have an opinion on this matter! Then there is reason why we in this council hall will consider this matter. This was shown in the case of a man. A senator says she has no idea of a projection plan. Is it so that here we are accepting the stability conditions that free foreign claimors from currency but the government, the head of the case, and the head of the council have no idea how to dispose of others? Is the senator content to discuss such rich interests with his eyes?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u188	A respectable president. Hv. I'm sure a senator and I will agree that the lift needs to be done quickly and that all of them need to be removed, in any case, in my opinion. I have the words of the bank manager that there would be a requirement for soon to be removed next year, and for my part I will keep the government in the subject and expect a good cooperation with the government. A senator in that respect.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u189	A respectable president. Hv. A senator said that he had a clear understanding of the ignorance of members of the council during a discussion on this matter, and she did not fully understand it herself. I refuse that I have been discussing this matter with some lack of understanding. I'll pass the bill that was being discussed here. I gave an excellent reason for my speech, in my earlier speech tonight regarding this bill, I quoted the bill right, left, and gave reasons for my speech in that way. I ask the senator to explain further what she meant by my lack of understanding and by the rest of the council members in the discussion. I find this humiliating talk to the chairman of the Parliamentary Committee who presents a committee opinion on the legal bill being discussed here. I wish she would explain her words better here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u190	A respectable president. I didn't mean to offend. A senator who has his word only for understanding the matter. If he says he understands everything, I'll trust and believe. However, I was merely testifying to many objections. Those who made the statement state that they liked the matter quite complex and would have wanted more time to lie over it and examine it carefully. [[Up front.]] I totally agree with that. That's just what I said. I totally agree with that. I understand that it takes time for people to review the matter and examine it from different angles. It's not a traditional case. This is a big deal. It was just what I did, to express my understanding of these comments at the time. Senators and betters, I joined them because I quite acknowledge that when it comes to the stability conditions there are many things I have no basis for evaluating, I have no basis to evaluate it. [[The president calls.]] I trust more men than I can tell.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-03-27.u191	Me?
