ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u1	Borist has a letter from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs asking for deadlines to give a written answer to a letter on the spell. 334, on decommissionment insurance, from Björgvin G. Sigurðsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u2	A respectable president. Yesterday's website news was telling of a meeting held on the basis of possible separation of business banks and investment banks, and at that meeting, economist Ásgeir Jónsson was found. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson. Hv. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson said it was an ideal opportunity to separate business banks and investment banks. A respectable president. I think it was a mistake after the financial breakdown not to make the changes in the financial system necessary. Once the banking system collapsed and caused what we have been going through since 2008. What will we do if we face two thirds of the Icelandic banking system again? Then there must be some changes in the financial system. Surely we want to examine that possibility and come into the process of separating investment banks and business banks. The government is supposed to be the sole source of this, and it's supposed to be possible to achieve that wide reconciliation, cross political reconciliation, because, so far, all political groups have had this on their policy list, except maybe the Independence Party, but during the last national meeting of the Independence Party, he gave this particular consideration. It states: "A meeting of several countries highlights the complete separation of the activities of investment banks and business banks. A respectable president. Governments are to put it in full priority in separating investment banks and business banks. The big project ahead is how we are going to build a financial system in Iceland. It's not about how fast we're selling 10% at the Lands Bank or how fast Iceland Bank is going to be sold, as big banks now show up and say, it's about how financial systems are going to build up. And the separation of business banks and investment banks should be our first step and key in that subject. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u3	Mr. President. I'd like to discuss the financial affairs of my rural society. It's been very interesting to witness the discussion of budgets, and I've only been in the discussion on budgets for 2016. I am a little surprised to learn how little we can talk about the financial and social status of our community. It is clear that the state's budget will bring back profits according to a 2016 plan despite the lack of revenues due to financial expenditures of up to tens of billions. New economic forecasts also give a basis for optimism. Despite this, 70% of rural communities are in a very difficult business, even though they have lifted a disk for the past few years in a reorganization of business and financial matters. It is clear, then, that the exchange of income between partners and state will be revised. Farmers have no share of income, no income, and none of their wealth. These income stocks are only subsidies, real estate and services, and they get a total of 2.12% of government funds through an equation fund. The share of rural society in increasing income due to increased tourism is not large. The exchange is by no means valid, given the expense of rural society in terms of meeting this growing industry. Therefore, I would like to encourage the body of Congress, especially as a platoon leader, to have the courage to revise this exchange and to make sure that there is a clearly available budget. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u4	A respectable president. A recent population of Haguems reports that the smile is on the run from Iceland, the largest in the 2009 wake - up year when the Icelanders had to deal with economic collapse and the severe aftereffects they faced. Last year 3,400 Icelanders moved out of the country and have never been more since 2009. A government government that was then established as ruler was given the task of rebuilding our community after financial fulfillment in the right catch, and it did. She was able to do what was considered impossible, to correct the national situation and to prepare for the economic growth and prosperity inherited by the present government. How, though, has the right government handled the healing she received? Marks show actions. When Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir handed the keys to the 2013 Council, only 36. Last year, there was a comparable figure that has reached 760, which is, in fact, the reduced number of Icelandic citizens. Here we live in a ruined currency that inhibits both industry and general standard of living. The people who are able to leave the country, especially the young and educated people, escape, and 70% of them go to the northern countries where they have a community system built on an equal policy, where we take economic and welfare systems that depend on their names. Here on Frona's low winds, the self - treatment of the right government, the government that protects the target of stress, increases the rate of food, changes the tax system to the worse - and the Icelanders flees the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u5	Mr. President. I'm going to spin the thread forward as long as I can. paritaprevir Lárus Ástmar Hannesson filmed here for the financial survival of the local communities. Recently, members of the Parliament and I have decided from individual rural, national, or other members of the local community that are challenged by government, government, and Council to revise income communications between state and rural society and to cross the rural institutions for their support. These weeks of rural development are setting aside their budgets for the next year, and there are reports that the situation is very narrow and difficult. Unfortunately, the yield of Part A is nearly the largest member of the country who grew worse in the last year. At the same time, the state thinks it's a good place, under the administration of existing administration parties, that it can reduce its income, give its income, and still run out in a reasonable amount of recreation because the economy is due for certain temporary revenues. In other words, the development of a new fault in government survival is clearly seen in rural society in a far different and worse way than in the State. Now it's all the same. It's the official government in Iceland that stands under the welfare community of the country. That's why it's about all of us when we live in the hot tub with our communities. It is not later a good time to have some discussion about this subject. I have to say just as it is that I find strange that there have not been any voices from the government and the government here at the Council on this matter. However, if I assume that it is not just with government opposers who are facing challenges from their rural communities in these areas. I expect it's with all members of Congress. In view of what we see, what is the attitude of the greater part in reviewing and strengthening the survival of rural society?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u6	V.E.G. President. I'd like to make a comment on the plans of the Minister of Homes, which is published in the Constitution for a seven-house bill until the autumn Summit. There's been no word from those initials. Secretary of the house is giving away empty dishes once. May I remind you that last spring, a minister put out two primes that didn't run out and went upstairs. In the capital area, there is a fear - inspiring situation as well as many areas in the country in housing. It is indeed delaying the very ambitious plans of the city of Reykjavík, which the mayor has repeatedly announced to the city of Reykjavík to expand its facilities and to increase the availability of both rent houses and less housing, there are particularly great and good plans that I am impressed with, but Reykjavíkurburg is waiting for so many people, such as the people of the country, all waiting for the government's policy, to follow the minister's course. My information is that these bills don't even come to the government, much less through Congress, let alone with the Ministry of finance to take up a budget for these matters. Today is November 18th, as everybody knows. There are eleven days left to discuss the budget of 2nd. and 3rd... and can be withdrawn for at least three days before that, so there are eight days of Congress left. It is obvious that the social and housing minister is returning wealth once more, giving up, not bringing anything. This wait for the premiere is beginning to cause major damage to plans, such as the ambitious plans for these matters in Reykjavík. What do panel members especially say that this program, the work of the Parliament, has often come up here, and has talked about it? Where are the premises?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u7	A respectable president. It's a pleasure to know that we have arrived in the latter part of the season, for I may simply say so here in the IIal symposium: Inevitably, this government is leading me. Why is it repeated in the private interest of the lndependence Party and now with plans for large, private business, including the health care of the capital area? When was this offered for an election? Where were the campaign campaigns of an independent party and a forwarding party to cross the Community Convention on Social Health? Where was the meeting fine on Lake Lava, talking about taking the back of the nation, making sure the Icelanders from ambushes with private interest plans for health care? Who promised to create a system that treats people according to their economic situation? Who promised to create a system where people are supposed to buy themselves ahead in line? Where was the campaign promised that we could squeeze into Iceland's high school? You see, it never shows up, and this situation in Iceland is a pain in the ass. I can't imagine how we have to face the fact that this political indiscretion, which I allow myself to call, is tolerated that ministers are being conducted without discussing major changes in the Icelandic community at the General Assembly and that no one comes up with it in the constitutions is an agreement? Is this the result of a 50-50 exchange, a ideological 50 - part exchange? I say, most dignified president, this must be discussed at the Council and throughout society. This is not going to be a pleasure.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u8	Mr. President. About a year ago, we were discussing a budget bill here by 2015. It presented educational policies on the right of the government, which includes the refusal of those 25 years of age to attend book studies in public high school but to direct them to expensive private schools with a high price. That's what we protested in the United States and what we did. Convention members of the government stand severely. But that was why. Councilmen of the forward Party and of the Independence Party who adopted this curious educational philosophy, which includes a culturally insane community policy. In answer to the highest. A minister of education with my questions about the number of high school students in October this year, compared to the same kind of questions he answered me last year about a number of students in October 2014, it is found that students 25 years of age and older have decreased by 742 in public high school and about 447 in book studies. During the conversations I had with the head of high school, they have told me that this rule has spread to the study, with a much lower number of students 25 years of age and older in high school as well. In the literature program, the number of students has decreased by over 300. V.E.G. This year the high school in Hafnar arrived under the private school of Technologies. In October 2014, the high school had 508 students. The number of students in Technical School increased only in 149, and we need to study these figures and examine the results of bad education and the regional policy of the right government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u9	Mr. President. When Þorgeir of Ljósvetningagoði became reconciled to Christian people and hereticalists, he said, with permission: "But now I find the counsel, that we do and do not have the best counsel, which is the will to be taken, and the mediums between them, that each side has a matter of his own matter... ◯ Mahatma Gandhi said that it was the law of love that ruled mankind, but he also pointed out that so - called civilized nations often acted as the basis of violence for society. The terrible things that happened in Beirut and Paris last week were not surprising. That's the situation in the world today. But they beat you to death. We have long watched from a distance the disasters that the people of the Mediterranean countries have experienced, oppression, and violence on the part of governments and warlords, who have taken away all the quality of life and very often life itself. Thus, many people have risked their lives and their children to try to get away from the hell on earth that has changed their home in recent decades. Western governments have done many wrongs and unjust deeds that have fueled oppression and strife in this part of the world. They have usually considered the black gold, the oil, so much more than innocent people of flesh and red blood. It doesn't mean to ignore it. The United States still maintains a barrier to the government of Saudi Arabia, who respects human rights as much as Daesh's killing forces. We have the same responsibility for innocent people who now flee this oppression, war, and horror, as well as for the Jews and other groups persecuted by the German Nazis. Let's not forget it. Half the world and almost a thousand years understood that Ljósvetningagoði and Gandhi had the same desire to do what was right and to hire us. Mr. President. Keep in mind their counsel when we decide what we say and do, how we shoulder responsibility toward the people in the world that are worst because of violence, oppression, and fanaticism.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u10	A respectable president. In the past, the General Assembly of Men and Women's Rights was blurred. As I mentioned in a speech here yesterday, a party of Pirata is reserved to women this week, and I began to think. If the problem was reversed, women and I would be better concerned about equality and consideration for women as well as men. How do we as a community treat young men? We women have fought a hard and remarkable battle to break back standards for women, but what sort of stereotypes has society cast on boys? What causes sexual predators, terrorists, violent people? These are terrible labels that also the innocent men have to fight, many of them afraid to show their children too much affection for fear that their attention will be misunderstood. Do men have to go through the life of suspected men? This is an important discussion as important as the debate over women's stereotypes. It is time for us to see and acknowledge that what understands is also what unites us as long as both genders have the same balance in society. A violent man does not exist because of nothing. A terrorist does not exist in a void. It's all about cause and effect. How do we prepare young boys for life? How do the school systems handle them? Boys are falling behind, and they struggle most with reading. Their drop from high school is high. Many young criminals are also victims of circumstances and victims of their history, just as we women have inherited oppression from our mothers. Where are these young criminals? They're in the jails of the country. How do we care for them there? Here we have just recommended a new law on the ultimate punishment. Sadly, there seems to be little compassion and correction. Just as we need to build our boys up within the walls of the school system, we need to support them once they have gone astray. It is our job to ensure that this is done by the generals and the women. So that we can guarantee equal rights and opportunities both young girls and boys, women and men, we need a wide range of dating here at the General Assembly and at other positions of authority in the community. Without each other, we cannot build a more human future.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u11	V.E.G. President. First of all, I want to set matters straight. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller said earlier, because he's now a member of the council. So the bills come through the government and to the Generals. They don't go to any expense food from here. There are costs to the government and the Generals, but not the reverses, as we noted earlier. It turned out, under this team last night, that Iceland's Secret Bank is not without friends in this hall. There must be some people who like Black Air. All I want to do is spin the thread as long as possible. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon ran here yesterday. He waslittled the words we have had here, including me, about the Western Administrative Policy of the Federal Bank, algalin. I want to go back for a while. A senator said here yesterday. He said: The government is not helping the Federal Bank. - But the bat's not helping the government at all, that's for sure. Hv. A senator said that there would be members of the council to discuss this matter. However, it is not just government officials, because we, those who have been critical of these matters here, do have brothers outside these walls, economists who are taken seriously, including Ólafur Margeirsson, Ólafur Ísleifsson, etc. which underline the caution that operating growth here must not be so high for many reasons. The fruit is gradually forming a new snow hang. They're making a stronger crown than we do. They are damaging and damaging the business of small enterprises, which have no choice but to put these growths into prices, thereby creating an inflation. After all, it's kind of a growth policy that is damaging to society. For concern about the balance of commerce or goods, it is now that although it is now the first nine months negative about 14.7 billion - of which 77.7 billion are in transport devices, ships, and airplanes, of which 98 billion are in investment - I don't think we should get out of the glues immediately. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u12	V.E.G. President. What do I and the 70 years of independence have in Suldur and the young man who prefers the forward party and lives in Gardentown in common? We share our desire to have money set aside for health care, and we want it to be primarily in public business. But what does the government do for the Davíð of Shimmer Gunnlaugsson? We've learned that from the United States to the highest. A health minister works to adjust the health care system so that at least a larger portion of it will become a private business. I asked a minister last year. There he did not answer my questions about the possibility of getting involved in an increasing business. V.E.G. Health Ministers are afraid to come and discuss their open policy on increasing private affairs. Information on this has been presented in a financial committee. Information about this has been received in the United States by meetings, that there is an increase in private management of the health system in a secret mange. I, Mr. President, am now making a inquiry to the highest level. Health Minister to see if there are any changes in health care management practices and whether the purpose and purpose of the public is to provide for the business. I would also like the answers from here on. Committee members: Is it the policy of the Independence Party and the forward party to expand their private business across the health system? Is it a policy of the forwarding party and the Independence Party to undermine the confidence of people in the health system that we all share and put it into private business with their friends?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u13	A respectable president. They are striking numbers that have been shown to reduce the number of students in high school. The figures make you anxious about where you're headed for advanced education in Iceland and whether the government is the pride of being at the bottom of the list, one of the least educated people in the Northland. One raises questions, not only to me, but to everyone living in the rural areas who has a small percentage of high school when compared with the high school capital area, this ridiculous rule of turning students over 25 years of age for room in those schools. Of course, the small schools will come at the worst. Is it really the government's policy to shut them down, or is she going to change the routine and model for high school? Before this school, each student's value is immensely important when it comes to managing the basis and being able to provide support for students. How should we meet this high school? What are the counter measures? Is it just a secret policy for us to let these schools disappear? Does the government not realize that for these communities, these are enormously important organizations? It not only increases access to education and increases education levels but also increases the overall quality of life of people with assignments directly involved in society. Where's this going? Is this the independence policy of the Independence Party and the move team in Iceland? We need answers, and we need answers right away.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u14	V.E.G. President. I'd like to do another subject, prepared for the council, the assignment that Iceland and I have left, i.e. to validate the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people. I have, along with 12 other members of the council, made a decree on this matter. I once said in a speech that 151 countries of 193 agreed to the agreement. That's not true. There's a lot more. The numbers of money are growing, and the number of people who have validated the contract is increasing rapidly. It is now estimated that some 160 countries have already validated the agreement. Iceland is becoming the only state yet to validate the agreement. We are becoming a laughingstock abroad, and it is a big shame for us here in Iceland not to validate the agreement. As I said, the number of countries is increasing, and the number of people who do this is increasing rapidly. Nor is it true what I said here that half of the steps had been taken by signing back then. The contract does not go into effect until signing. That's what I'm going to do here at the end of my speech, my respectable president, I don't need to state the evidence, we're all in agreement with them no doubt, but what I'm going to do here at the end of my speech is to speak for candidates and independence here at the council that they're going to promote themselves in their council to take this contract and validate it. We should make it our goal to validate him before the New Year's Eve. We're not supposed to be the last ones. We're supposed to be able to look at whether this is not part of the smaller parts and more. Therefore, I pray for candidates and independence: Speak for this in your councils, get your hands out of your hands, demand that the Council agree that we validate the contract and the government alone in it, and aim to be no later than a year's time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u15	Mr. President. When it comes to discussing economic and economic issues, I do not view myself as a friend or an enemy of any kind, neither as any government nor any government. I try to discuss that matter objectively. I do not back up the fact that I find it inexpensive language for the management departments to come here day after day and week after week, expounding the Sensitors and finding his policies as far as possible, but at the same time, I am totally trying to get the whitewash of the government and free of all responsibility. It's called seeing the straw in his brother's eye, because it is, of course, the way it is, and I thought it would be undisputed in discussions about economic matters and economic management to play together, on the basis of course, the Secret Bank's instruments, the decisions on operating growth, the intervention of a currency market, and other things like the emphasis on government and the general economy. It is naive to try to set the example so that there is only one person responsible for all of this. It's cheap. About what? About interest. Ásmundur Einar, then, I'd like to Daðason him a hearty welcome to the group, again, maybe I should say. There's now a small defense. A senator may not have done something three, four, or five years ago. Now we're running a promotion, hopefully something's going to happen. I can review it on a better occasion as to how financial legislation was revised and, among other things, laid the basis for making informed decisions about future legislation in this field with a lot of work during the last term. This includes getting international experts to advise, which included a large report and actually two that were distributed in the Council of 2012. But little has happened since then, that's true. It was immediately stopped to the most dangerous fault after the crash, including what appeared in the light of a report by the World Commission, forbidding loans to owners, etc. However, the law of law had another opinion, and it has not yet been the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u16	V.E.G. President. Before this bad business is scheduled and will be discussed again, I would very much like to inquire about it, as I intend to participate in the discussion, whether it's the highest. The minister of foreign affairs will not be sure to be present. Of course, I will hear it if the answer is that the custom is not that a minister is there and the chairman of those who mentioned the case was a tire. It's a good thing to do, but it's such a thing that it's taken a little different than it was at first. You can't see the purpose of the other than the injurity of the Minister who's going to reinvent this institution into the Ministry. I can see that if they leave that office, they will not be replaced. They will be assigned to someone in the Ministry. In other words, money under this team is being picked up, a developing cohesion agency, into the Ministry to help reduce the financial problems of the Ministry after a great deterioration in the hands of a chairman and the vice president of a legal body of legal agencies last year. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking if it's the highest. Secretary of state will be here today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u17	The president reveals it to the highest level. Secretary of State will not be attending this discussion today. He is busy with other commitments that he has as a minister and as a senator. On the other hand, the situation is like that. A senator called attention to the custody of the General Assembly. They have gone into the Foreign Affairs Committee and have been taken care of there and recommended by reason of the situation. The head of the committee, so there should not be any basis for continuing the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u18	Mr. President. I'm sorry to hear that. The minister of state is not going to honor this meeting with his presence now that we are taking the final session on the bill available here to put down the European Development Agency. Certainly, it is right to do so. paritaprevir Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir is chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee and is in the house and the matter is in custody of the council. Nevertheless, in the first cycle of this discussion, a number of questions were raised to the highest level. A minister and a request that he explain certain aspects of the matter and his comments about the matter have not been answered. I believe the minister's duty is to be present, and before this case ends, he has to answer. Now, it may well be that this case doesn't end until beyond Christmas, but I still believe it would be worth the discussion if he came here or after an incident that some of his harpoons who may be able to inform the matter would be trying to get the highest power. Minister for the discussion. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u19	A respectable president. I want to say the bottom line. President on the issue that there's a why. paritaprevir Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, president of the Foreign Affairs Committee, and I'd also like to say that this case has been given a lot of publicity to the Foreign Affairs Committee, both when it was moved to the last council and again now. I'll agree with the highest. The president's concern is that this discussion is being conducted in a way that is not abnormal and that it should stir up. Councilmen to prepare for their speeches and to think that this will be an interesting and informative discussion. That's what I trust with the speaker's file. We are not in the habit of starting this discussion as early as possible in order that as most people today may, we are well acquainted.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u20	Mr. President. I think it's absolutely necessary to be clear on my part that when I spoke of the harpoons at the very height. Minister, I didn't particularly mean what. paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason. But I had hardly finished the word until he was brought here on his fine wings in the chair and apparently views him as the harpoon.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u21	And look forward to...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u22	I also look forward to seeing the harpoon begin in hills and possibly become the one waving the surfer. Mr. President. I believe it is important in this discussion that we will ever have a place to speak at the highest level. Secretary of state. He's been on almost nothing of this discussion. He has answered no questions, and he has allowed himself to talk about the Agency and the activities that we need at the highest level. Minister to explain to the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u23	A respectable president. I was to be the first speaker in this discussion on this subject. I'm a little surprised at that explanation of management, huh? Councilmen, that it is sufficient for the chairman of a committee to attend. It's not who I want to have a word with on this matter, especially because of the nature of it. This is not about vision in developing cooperation. Rather, it is about the formation structure under the Ministry of Foreign Ministers. Therefore it is utterly wanting, though it is worthy of a good price. The head of the committee is present for this discussion. Of course, that may not be necessary, but of course the minister himself should be present for a discussion of organizations that will be under him and the changes he wants to make in them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u24	President. I'd like to agree with the members of Congress who miss the highest. A minister is not present today. As we have seen, there are a number of questions about this great matter that are not yet being raised, and it is taking steps here that would make it very difficult for me to go back, very difficult if this way has to come back to its repair. The minister owes us answers to the questions he has been asked. I'd like to express my amazement at it as a dog. paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason said that the matter had been discussed with the committee in the fall. As far as I'm hearing it, it's not right at all. This was the case, as some have noted, that the committee was torn out, and men pretended they had not received an answer or been contacted by many representatives whom they wanted to have a place to speak with. [[Up front.]] I just want to say that I'm surprised by the way I am. paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason. [[The president calls.]] Other than that, I'm supposed to get used to him, but he's not really going to be right here in this chair.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u25	Madam President. I would like to agree with the comments presented here, and perhaps primarily because this is an unusual matter in this regard to the highest degree. The Minister of Foreign Affairs recommends the case that is very lonely in the Minister's Constitution. It's as if it's about all he dreams about in his political accounting at this council. He does not participate in 1st. but is just sitting here and then taking some final turn, primarily by means of the traffic, at the end of 1st. The pads of the article that we've been through are completely unsatisfactory. Besides, there's not a lot of executives to settle this case. There is one member of the board who has discussed this matter, and that is why. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, who said, "You're not supposed to make any unnecessary cake to institutions. " So it is the line we have from the members of the administrations in this matter. It is totally unacceptable, except for the Minister to come here and to explain the political importance of this case, as reflected by its position and answer the questions raised here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u26	Mr. President. I agree with those who have considered that a major fault of continuing with this discussion to the highest degree. The minister of foreign affairs is not here to represent him. I speak because this case is a matter of the minister. The Foreign Affairs didn't think of this, and everyone knows how this case is growing, that it comes from within the Ministry itself and from the Minister to put this establishment down, and do what? Move your assignments to the Ministry under the Minister. Thus, this matter is quite different from many others that we often speak and are general, and since the minister in itself is not in the same close proximity to the matter as in this case. The only man who really needs to represent him is the minister. He is the one who pronounces this matter with little infatuation and acquiesces. Unfortunately, the management team seems to have been handcuffed to figure out what to do with the Minister. But we all know it's a little girl for this. Hence, the person who presents the case will be the only person who is serious about coming here and representing himself.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u27	V.E.G. President. It's exactly this case, like the rest of the day. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon came in earlier, that it is being taken, laid down, and placed under that minister. That is why it is so important that a minister be present and answer any questions raised, whether at 2 or 3. ... butnotjust at the end, and maybe not at the end, as some stewards would sometimes do, not even come up at the end of a discussion. What I would like to know is related to what is being used in a bill here on the co-ordination of the Marine Research Agency and the Hunting Institute, where there will be a new way into personnel which is some approved government from this time in ours, to inform all the employees before, and to give them the opportunity to revise instead of going as has been done until now, and all union unions recommend this particular case that I made to be discussed, and to allow the communication laws to govern. [[The president calls.]] There's a new route, and I need answers from the highest level. Minister if he is going to do this indiscriminately, in effect, rudely with the staff.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u28	Mr. President. I have to agree with those who have spoken before about getting the highest. Secretary of state to discuss this with the council. As we have seen, a minister needs to clarify his intentions better. They're making questionable changes in the administration and moving an independent employment agency into the Ministry, an institution that has so far worked in a good reputation and has shown professional strengths, without seeing that there are actual materials to take over the seminary and take care of it the way it has been done so far. Of course, the minister should be present for the discussion here today. He is the one responsible for this, and he is its founder and is therefore to take this conversation with the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u29	Mr. President. I'd like to agree with someone who's been calling after the big time. A minister is present and participate in this discussion. It is true, as it was said here, that a minister spoke the case but then took little or no part in the discussion. True, he said a few words at the end, but many questions were especially addressed to the highest level. A minister who still remains unsettled and the case is so growing that it is the minister who has to answer those questions, there is not a question to be pointed to. paritaprevir Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir. Foreign Affairs. The point is, we're going to lay down an organization and bring money and all of its activities to the Ministry. Secretary of state. So it must be the same one. Secretary of state who must have the conversation with the council and answer the questions of members of Congress. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u30	V.E.G. President. We call it the highest. The minister will be there for the discussion. We are told that he is carrying out his duties. He's supposed to be at a meeting at the High School party at Issafjörður tonight. Is it the duties that are more important than being here at the council when a minister is going to lay down an entire body? The matter did not get properly discussed in the Foreign Affairs Committee, although it was there for the second time. There were new members of the Committee. Of course, a minister who seems to be among the few who support this matter at the council should be at the conference and discuss with us the ambition of putting down the European Development Agency. I would like the president to answer that question: Is it the meeting of the candidates at Isafjordur that the Minister prefers to a meeting on his case?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u31	V.E.G. President. We're here discussing a bill from the government to put down the European Development Research Agency, bringing in a project that is very extensive and up to billions of dollars in one Ministry, similar to the use of Iceland's Road Building and moving into the Department of Transport or Internal Affairs. It's a very controversial bill, but in the end, much more part of the conference will determine the outcome. V.E.G. Minister was here at 1st. Then, the case goes to the council. I want to know from what. The chairman of the committee whether it is the right thing to say that the matter was taken out of the committee without the opportunity to review any comments. [[Up front.]] I think it is only natural for the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee to represent him and to explain what is right in this regard. Under these circumstances, it is entirely different from the highest. The Minister of Foreign Affairs will be our desire for the government opposition to come to the Hall of Congress and make an account of what he has to say. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u32	A respectable president. Developing cooperation is one of the main points of the Republic's foreign policy. She has been expelled from the Ministry and, on the other hand, from the development community. Because of its high regard and effectiveness, a developing cohesion agency is highly respected everywhere. It is considered that it is not more correct to move there all development cooperation than to have a share in the Ministry. It can't be tolerated at the highest. A minister who makes this a private matter will not be present for the discussion and answer the questions he is asked about the reasons in the world for this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u33	Mr. President. I think it happens too often in this councilroom to the point. Councilmen wish to have the highest power. Ministers come to the Assembly Hall to accept the discussion and answer questions under difficult circumstances, and they do not obey the call. President. I like it like the rest of us. Councilmen wish to have the highest power. Secretary of state, report to the chamber. Here in the discussion, many questions have been raised as only the highest. Minister can answer. It would certainly be helpful for a discussion of the matter, if the ultimate. A minister would come here, answer the questions that remain, and then perhaps so. Councilmen continue the discussion. I wish for it, as do others. Senators who have spoken before me under this point. Minister, come here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u34	Mr. President. This is an unacceptable situation that has come up here that no human can handle the case. I think it's humiliating for the Generals. It's humiliating for the Generals to have a minister come down here and talk for some bullshit. He just talks to some stupid shit, sits and keeps quiet on the bench until the discussion is over, then keeps going, and then the management are going to go to the green button like money to the slaughtering. What exactly is this treatment in the Senate? I'm just asking, Mr. Honorable President, I don't understand where the government groups are really going. So in this case, an institution is to be taken and placed in the Ministry. V.E.G. The Ministry of Education and Culture spoke last year about taking a job out of the Ministry and turning into an institution. There's a lot of confusion in this policy right here and south. This is totally unacceptable, Mr. President, and I ask: Is there no limit to the excuses the Ministers can draw from their hat and claim that they are in their interests in order to avoid standing before the General Assembly? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's what worries me.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u35	A respectable president. I don't understand why I have a duty to address a minister as an honorary minister when he obviously has little respect for the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u36	A respectable president. It is absurd to discuss matters here at the council without reviewing the case on the committee. Even if the reviews are similar at the end of the last council, it is that when they return in the fall, new members of the council are settling in and they need to be settled. The Senate committee is less organized when the case occurs this fall. And then the minister prefers a party meeting in the district over meeting here to represent him. He's at Ástrún today and he's going to the Sheep's Lair tomorrow. He is not using terms like other members of Congress, no, he is betraying a discussion here in a case he is opening up in, running into a world of ideals to avoid representing himself here. This is disrespect to the council, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u37	A respectable president. There's been a beat-up at the highest level. Secretary of state on this matter. Of course, when he uses his suit to clean up, he may leave them there and leave them there, someone else who is responsible for cleaning them for him, but it is different when it comes to one of the highest councils. Minister. He has to follow it through the council. This is not something he can leave behind and expects others to take care of him. He needs to reason on this. That is part of what the reviews show, that there is no basis for reasoning in this matter. You're right. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir said earlier, the head of Congress. Minister is extremely poor. It is strange that this is one of the business of politicians, after all the problems involved in doing this job, putting down the Development Institute and the Ministry. That men have moved all the way from the Sea of Galilee to do so is a mystery.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u38	Mr. President. This is naturally disturbing for us senators in the smaller section, who did not get a proper discussion of the subject on a committee. It had to be pulled out. It was not to be called to our guests. So when the case's on, it's going to take the top. The minister of the Foreign Ministers meeting with the advance party in Isafjordur and the Sheep's Fund over the fact that he intends to put down an entire institution, an institution that has not been a problem, but, rather, against his duties very well, is well-founded and general agreements for that institution. I suggest that we postpone this meeting while the minister will give his company a wide spread throughout the country and then when he is ready, speak enough with the candidates, and be prepared to come here to the council and discuss this one matter of his council, we will continue this program but only that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u39	Mr. President. I feel that I have a short argument earlier in a rather reasonable way that it is normal to have the highest claim. A minister is present for discussion on this matter, 2 Corinthians. and the main discussion of the matter. Now it is informed that he is meeting with the candidates at Isafjörður. Of course, I must admit that I have a measure of sympathy in my view that some members of a foreign regional district may have to try to develop that relationship with other jobs. Now I don't know how large this meeting will be in Iceland and whether a minister will be very supportive of this case, but then the question is, Should the council not simply understand these matters, since they have become facts and ministers of the air, if not west, and take this matter from the program until the highest level? Minister has come from his resurrection. Let's hope that they are flying from Iceland, and then they can pop north at the Red Sea for a discussion on this matter tomorrow. In view of all circumstances, I think it is by far the most natural thing to do that we delay the further discussion until the highest. Ministers of foreign affairs have consulted with their candidates.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u40	V.E.G. President. V.E.G. Advertising is in hand to shorten a discussion on a subject that they stress quickly to attend simply by granting requests to be present and to stand before their own language. We've seen it in the winter at the highest. Healthcare Minister has refused to attend the ATSVR discussion. He has refused to attend. V.E.G. The president has repeatedly communicated messages to that secretary. Now this is repeated with a development community organization. I have to say, I feel less serious if it is true that the matter has been taken out of the Council's Foreign Affairs Committee without reviewing any comments, such as the members of the Committee requested. [[The president calls.]] I'll be waiting. The chairman of that committee will come here and we will be aware of that position.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u41	A respectable president. First, I want to make a formal comment to the highest. The minister of foreign affairs is not present during this discussion. When I began to think about what I was going to say on this subject when I signed on a talk sheet a few weeks ago in this discussion, I began to consult the chart on the council's website to recall exactly what arguments lie behind this arrangement. Secretary of state. The aim is to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the European Commission and to improve the policy of the seminary. Among the major changes and innovations in this case is the bringing of all the projects of the Developmental Union to the State Department that depend on the implementation of the law of the law through the implementation of all development cooperation by the Icelandic government. The European Development Agency will then be submitted and submitted to changes in the size and role of the development committee, the current teamwork programme for international development cooperation will be submitted, and the legislation on the European Peace Guard and its involvement in international peace care to face the development of the environment that it operates. So says a summary of this matter. I immediately stop at one point that is covered in the purpose of the law, i.e. ... toimprovetheprogrammatesofthegressor's policy. What I'm thinking about in this context is that policy in this category is something I would like to discuss in this room. I think it's more fun, more needed, and necessary to talk than a discussion about the formation of this group, i.e. What we will do, how we will use ourselves in this regard, where, for what purpose, and in what way. You see, it is in politics that we are usually dealing with goals, policy, and vision on the other hand and, on the other hand, very often, but more often, the tools we use to achieve these goals. When you look at the humble Constitution of the highest estate. Ministers of foreign affairs naturally pause at the fact that they have little to do with subjects belonging to the first category; policy, vision, purpose, business in politics. I say for my part that I have strong opinions about the theory of evolutionary cooperation. I have personally experienced how it can make a difference for small communities. I was once traveling through a small island outside the Yemen, which is on the border of the Arabian Sea and the Indian Ocean, which is known as the Yemen. There's a little 50 up there. people based on, only about 2,000 people a year, no infrastructure, enormous poverty, and hardly possible to talk about developed society. Still, there was some idea of a travel service. There were guides who were English - speaking and familiar with computers. The reason was that the United Nations Developmental Fund had emphasized the importance of teaching both in the region. As a result, there was a small group that could develop, develop, and operate tourism. Although it was not much at the time, it was still a sign of failure to make such an investment a simple way in teaching someone to set up a home and teach some English that can lead to his being able to support himself financially and to promote economic progress in his community. I think such development aid needs to be far more extensive in many parts of the world. I think that many of the problems we face today in the Western world - I'm talking about terrorism, refugees, famine, and the great threats that we face today that we may understand that we live in Iceland - that language group could be different. It could be affected by a more targeted course, by the long - term thinking, by making decisions, and by investment in areas where it could really have an effect. I think that in areas where families don't have to worry about their economic future and that they're involved, they're less likely to be roses, conflicts, wars, and reduce the chances of inculcating individuals that they're leftovers, not respected, or that they have to resort to arms to fight for their rights and theirs. I would be willing to discuss that. I would be willing to participate in the talk and conversation at the highest level. Secretary of state on those policies. For example, I would like to discuss the contribution of the Icelanders to this category and the cuts and contractions that the present administrative groups have had in the process. It would be a subject that I would be willing to spend a lot of time on, more than in discussions about the establishments of the administration when it comes to the seminary. Of course, I would be willing to discuss such matters if it was shown in an impossibility way that the start line was being carried out for cleaning purposes, that men could not do the work that society has decided to do because something was wrong with the organization. Is that how it is? No, it's not like that, actually. I've been looking at the reviews that have come up after a discussion about the matter last spring and taking down a review from the United Nations. It quotes a report on the development of Iceland's cooperation, organization, efficiency, and effectiveness, mainly based on the bill. The review says that there are some questions. These questions are: What are some professional reasons for the plans for unity? Since the management board has in general developed more and more, the policy and monitoring of its implementation than the implementation of professional organisations is being carried out? What do the OECD Development Committee consider together? Why is the conclusion of the development committee on the organization and the effectiveness of the development aid planned for next year? Has the experience of other countries been examined by having an independent agency around developing cooperation, such as Sweden? The UN suggests that a decision to change the law of international development teaming in Iceland will be postponed until these questions have been answered by professionals and before the final decision is made. I think that's a very valid argument and a valid question presented here. I don't like it when we discuss these matters that it's done without the Minister of the jury, the person who thinks he has this business in politics and puts it up, prepares answers, and participates in the discussion. I am convinced that something must be missing. There's got to be something in it that hasn't shown up because there's so much evidence to support you. I wondered if a foreign minister feels that there is no need for support in this matter. Simply put, he feels that it would be more convenient for him as a minister to have this seminary at his office, so he should be allowed to interpret it, because he is a minister. It doesn't work that way in my mind. I don't think it's okay for one man to make it enough to want an agency like this under his office to be done then. Of course, in the European Union of Iceland, the Ministry is about to defend or fail to be fully equipped to meet the professional knowledge of its institutions. In many cases, the Ministry is in charge of decision making because it can be based on expertise, the Ministry can be subversive to institutions, and so forth. In some cases, there may be reasons, so you try to represent the highest degree. The secretary of state in this case, to transfer agencies or any part of their profession, and, as stated in the Federal Republic of Germany, that the surveillance is being supported within the Ministry for a better follow-up of work. However, the very nature of the subject cannot be seen here, and there is a reason for interest. Secretary of state should make this change. These are the thoughts that I think I've had at the top of my mind when I put myself on the rosary in this case a few weeks ago. It's a little hard to come back into this discussion after a break. How desirable it would be to be both able to hear a counterargument! Minister of Foreign Affairs, i.e. His argument for this change, and he got a conversation about exactly what it is during the development policy of the Icelanders that he intends to achieve with this, what are the goals and what will become easier and clearer by this change. The real essence of policy must be the most important; what goals are the highest. A minister makes a living? I thought men were ready to discuss at any time why they want to put down an institution and move it into the Ministry or create a new agency. There is, however, some evidence that there is really a trend toward the course itself, that there are goals that humans have in these areas. For example, I mention the developments we have seen in the affairs of tourism here on the country. Now there are two issues under my committee, the Environment and Transport Committee, that deal with the rapid trends we have seen in the tourism industry in recent years; one on the other, agriculture and infrastructure. Both are long - term thoughts and planning issues. As you look at the scene, you see that there are tools, organizations, resources, and resources in many places to cope with the group that is not being used. In other words, it can be compared to a carpenter who likes to buy new tools - some of them like that - without cleaning up the tool box, without taking everything out of the chest, and seeing what is there and using it. If they do not do so at regular intervals, in an orderly manner, and with goals and policies in mind, they will be stuck in a controlled state of mismanagement. Hence, it is very important that people always discuss this from their destination and visualize what they want to achieve and then organize the toolbox from it. In this matter, that is not even the case. You have not even taken the discussion of what the project is, the vision of the future, the policy, before adding a new assignment or performing an assignment in your toolbox. It is unsatisfactory that we are here to discuss some superficial change that might be called, by permission of presidents, in the administration. And in particular, it is unannounced. A minister is not present to participate in the discussion. I regret it and leave myself the right to try as hard as possible to have a word with him on this matter. I think it matters. I don't feel that there are men around the council like a youth who's left home who brings his dirty laundry to his mother and leaves him there, and I just don't want to take care of him. I want the highest. Minister will follow up on his affairs. Not too many of them are overrun by him and his time and organization to see him present and follow his case group. That is, in fact, the absolute minimum, especially when it comes to such issues as these making changes to the development structure that is directly under the minister and that appears to be, almost entirely based on the ideals. Minister of his own.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u42	A respectable president. I'd like to ask you why. A senator whether he has studied the comments of Conspiracy, an organization against corruption. The website says, with permission of presidents: After the Department of State oversees TheSSI, all donations made by the Icelandic taxpayers will become international development partnerships in a ◯one pot to be found within the Ministry. The Agency believes that it will be harder to monitor what happens within the council than within their institutions where, for example, it is hard to hear that State Reexamination will allow the Ministry to be evicted by the government. The organization also states, by permission of presidents: The general rule of the government in the government of the United States is that by establishing a well - defined and limited task in non-profit institutions, it is easier to monitor the extent to which money is spent. It is a provision for transparency, demonstration and public interest. How does the senator feel about this?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u43	A respectable president. This is among the stories I have read in this case. I think they're very convincing. I think that's a reason we should listen to. If a person tries to imagine what is behind the fact that a civil minister wants to take organizations and take them, it is likely because he does not feel that he has enough control over the agency, in some way he is not acting on the order he makes of the lawsuit. There is, of course, something we would like to talk about. I would like to know why. In this case, the minister of state is more likely to handle these matters than the professionals who have worked for years in this category. It's about doing the jury. We're going to have a date here. The target schedule should be performed here. That's what we're supposed to be talking about here. I don't have to do much else but listen to the most persuasive, passionate speeches of the former. The minister of foreign affairs at the council of Arphédin, the Össur of Skarphéðinsson, to know that this case must be very handy, since it is today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u44	A respectable president. I wanted to continue with what the organization put on its website. They also state, by permission of presidents: ▪ The Minister's adviser on international development cooperation and the Minister's plans to bring down TheSSI is one of the top officers within the Red Cross of Iceland. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Parliament whether he believes that this is a conflict of interest, especially in view of the fact that this adviser of the minister speaks that the Icelandic government should support enterprises in the energy sector who want to bring geo-gravity projects into developing countries, although this is not a part of international development cooperation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u45	A respectable president. Yes, I know Þórir Guðmundsson of the Red Cross very well. He is one of my friends, and he is a very careful man. I would not go so far as to believe that his interests had somehow played on his report to the Ministry on these topics. I simply draw the same conclusions as the People's Association from his contribution. A number of questions arise when reading the report that I find reasons to comment before continuing, e.g. about the experience of other nations. [[The president calls.]] I think it's Gagnsæi very necessary opinion and that's something we should take into consideration.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u46	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for a very bad speech. He was informed of the work involved in the contribution of this case. As evidence of the corruption involved in this case, it is good to emphasize that e.g. The remarkable review of the Conspiracy Agency that counteracts corruption could not be discussed in the Foreign Affairs Committee. They were never discussed. There is a witness as to the ways in which a person puts his work in this unmistakably unscrupulous manner. I assure you that this has never happened in the past, and there are no examples of a panel's being prevented from having a right to review a rumor and seek out the underlying evidence. Hv. A senator spoke of the need to consider other situations, including the need for consideration. correspondent in Sweden It is proper to inform them that in such a country as Italy, they decided to examine just how development should be achieved. After a long edge, since major Italian experts arrived at the case, they came to their conclusions. Who was she? It was this, Mr. President, to abandon what men were doing to them and to adopt exactly the same policy as in Iceland. In other words, what the big country in Italy thinks is appropriate there, the United States feels no good. An indication of inadequacy. The minister is in this case, and he called at his time the staff of the Development Agency and introduced them to them, and they asked for the evidence. V.E.G. A minister said, and this was informed at a meeting of the State Department: There is no need for reasoning. This is the spirit behind it. [[The president calls.]] You're just mean to drive your will out, to put down an institution that's all wrong. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking why. Senator: How does he feel that we senators should react to such abuse of power?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u47	A respectable president. I think people must protest this kind of conduct, and there needs to be some compelling argument, some real reasoning that is behind tearing things into a hurry before people have had the opportunity to talk to all their sources. Absolutely ridiculous. Therefore, we are now discussing this matter in a complete void between us, brothers and sisters, really. No one who's coming to defend it. V.E.G. While this matter is being addressed on the program of the council, a minister is absent from his own political party. This is unacceptable and below all caves. I would be willing to reason with the highest. A minister on the subject of this matter would have a bearing on the course and the long - term goal he had on the development of this class. This here is more like some sort of arrangement in the administration, which you don't know exactly why it's born and what it's for. It's not part of the case. That, of course, is what the speakers point out. Second place, we were allowed to file a case under the department. For example, I mention the freshly formed management center of tourism. It is a case group, of course, that would recently have been established by a special agency and has the legal authority and the temporary Ministry of travel to prepare for that lawsuit. He is completely affected, and humans are in the race for the time to favor that class of languages in this government. They're just adding one layer to one another in that matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u48	Mr. President. The fact is, the highest. Minister is on the run from this case. He's never wanted to come here and stand up for his case. He has no support in the government. No one has a why. The panel members outside the current chairman of the II Parliament's committee discussed the matter, and this was merely to make an answer. I'm not gonna call it the highest. Minister slid because I can't. But how amazing it is to present such a case that is unfounded and where a minister even stands before the employees of the Agency, saying: There is no need for reasoning. It's amazing, isn't it? It's amazing. None of the members of the Independence Party have supported this matter in a talk. That's what they're up to because they need to. Hv. paritaprevir Of course, Vilhjálmur Bjarnason has spoken up and described a problem in the case, and even an honest conservative, as the former president of the police union is in euphoric when entering the hall when this is discussed. [[The president calls.]] I assure you, Mr. President, there has never been a case on the part of a government that has no greater support than this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u49	A respectable president. You must agree with what's said here. Of course, it's very special that people are discussing this matter, and there's no one here who comes to the highest level. A minister in defense, and he does not even have the courage to come here and follow the case and argue. I understand that he's already in the West, there's a meeting with the senators tonight on the ice festival, but I think it's a very strange priority if this is some kind of heart condition. I think that there must be some very serious comments to both the matter itself and the way it is pronounced at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u50	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir was to leave me to my opposition, since there was clearly some failure in my dealings with the highest degree. A president earlier. Thank you very much. I appreciate it. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall before his speech, and I must say that I wholeheartedly agree. I would like to discuss policy plans, aims, and vision rather than developing and especially in view of the fact that we have been looking forward to reduced levels of development cooperation or a decrease in the proportion of budgets for developing cooperation, although the plan was agreed to make a success of it. I'm really sorry that we're not discussing it, but we're putting down the Agency, an institution that is getting tremendously good reports everywhere, and especially from the DOC, which I think is very important. But in view of the lack of financial resources, I would like to ask. A senator will explain what is presented in the report with the bill, which speaks of a stronger link between foreign affairs and development cooperation. [[The president calls.]] Is it not particularly dangerous when we have so little money in the game to get our foreign political emphasis on this rather than primarily on the needs of the poor? [[The president calls.]] It's a dangerous road, isn't it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u51	A respectable president. In the last week's discussion of the horrors in Paris, I said that among the values I think Westerns would be a matter of long - term reviewing were the values of division and interest in other parts of the world. I think that the developments we've been looking at at at at the Mediterranean sea are largely caused by the interference between Western and interest protection in these areas, and that is, of course, something other than developing cooperation and should not be played together. Then, too, it may be wondered that when agencies under the Ministry are given certain tasks, which then do not come with enough funds to live up to, such as the nose. Iceland's Meteorological Institute or the Road Building, or whatever names express themselves on the subject, there's a sound coming from the corner when money is missing, when it's clearly advising according to target design, and the projects that have been planned are out of place. This is much different when agencies are laid down and heard by the Ministry because agencies aren't planning to protest financial contributions to the Party. They do not begin to call attention to the fact that this is a cutting, and the decision is not yet being made. That is why it is something that we need to get completely clear in this discussion: Why is it so important to do so? Secretary of State doing this? Why does he place so much emphasis on getting this institution into his Ministry? Is this to increase the growth of the group and to do more, or does he want to put up his sails?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u52	Mr. President. This is one of the reasons why it would be preferable to have the highest power. Minister in the discussion with us. That's exactly the kind of basic questions I think that didn't come up with enough answers. I agree with what. A member of the council that it is very unlikely that the Ministry would ask for additional money into such a business, and it adds, of course, that the countries needing this money are far away and in no position to pressure their affairs. Therefore, I believe that we must always view developing cooperation with the poorest countries as a long run and therefore may in no way be subject to some local political paraphernalia in Iceland. Finally, I want to ask the senator again: Are we not on the wrong path to take it over to this channel?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u53	A respectable president. I think it's a very cloudy water being caught in this case, and I'm worried about the road to the highest level. Minister's setting up. It's no coincidence that I like dirty laundry as high as I like it. A minister is returning himself to the council, and then he wants someone else to take care of his saving work, not even taking so much time to be present to participate in this and defend the matter. I think it would be most unfortunate to have this seminary under the Ministry and especially, I would like to mention, under the highest degree. Secretary of state, now in charge of that position.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u54	The president of this convention asks the senators a fine respect for the fact that some confusion has taken place before them that could not be handled.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u55	Mr. President. I am like the last speaker and several senators in discussions about the President's conference board to regret the Supreme Court. The minister of foreign affairs should not be present for the discussion. I want to make it my opinion that it is unacceptable to 2nd. of the matter, the main subject, will be finished sooner than ever. A minister has come here, and we have the opportunity to ask him questions and to give him some reasoning on the matter. Every time the discussion is over today, which, of course, would have been the most reasonable and reasonable reason to postpone, it is my firm wish to the president that the matter will not come back to the program until travel is guaranteed. Secretary of State allows him to be here at the Assembly Hall. Second, I have to say, I think it's a peculiar priority for the highest. Government and supreme. The minister of foreign affairs in this case is to waste energy on the matter, in view of the fact that there is obviously no solid evidence here. They've been described a lot. They're not in a paper with the bill, because I've read it quite well. They had little to do with the minister's front story talk, and again in the lead discussion of the major part of the foreign committee and the members of the committee. Then there are some problems. Why is this change under attack if there is no reasonable convincing evidence? Is it because this is an ancient arrangement that has somehow lived through time? No, it's not quite like that. We are talking about a very recent total set of legislation, which was put on a high level of work to shape and cost, if I recall correctly, by exogenous counselors and by whatever means I think 2008, where the review of these cases was reinforced that men considered and put in place at the time. There was no doubt that the development community was to remain professional, independent, independent, and carrying out its assignments. In fact, it's a loose shave in the report, and it's a bit awkward when considering and reviewing the 2008 legislation based on that basis, as it says, that the European Development Agency has handled two-sided development partnerships in Iceland's cooperation countries, in the hands of a foreign minister. True, many changes have occurred since then. But who is listed first? These include the Office of Development at the Ministry. Wait, have there become any particular argument that the Ministry has explained something new and has brought up a task within its own ranks? Any employee has already done this in the Ministry, and although these have become organizational changes and have put a new name on it, is this an independent basis for evidence that the development of a research agency is then to cease? No, I don't think so. This is followed by increased cooperation and coordination of the Ministry and the TSSI. What does that mean? Then there is a very interesting phrase in the report, that in leading Iceland's Member States to the development committee of the OECD, the DEC Committee - which we had often discussed in recent years that we needed to become competent members. I think it's embarrassing, I remember, when I was visiting OECD some year before, both as a representative of the Generals and also as a member of the Northern Council, Iceland was not involved in that committee, and we didn't share in the reporting and the surveillance and harmony there. Now it was handled. But the report says, with permission from the President: In 2013 the National Institute of Economic and Development Committee (OECD), DAC, led to a special focus on the development of Iceland's international development team, which showed in Iceland's transport to Member States. The results of this report were positive, and it showed that Iceland's development team is based on a solid and professional basis. So what's the problem? That Iceland's development cooperation was based on a solid and professional basis based on the assessment of these experts? This is a four - year - old assessment of the arrangement that still exists in the population and is about to go down. Then some new material evidence is needed to convince a person that this is the right thing to do. I repeat the question, Mr President, what's wrong? Tell me what to do. Many have spoken of the fact that the theory of evolution has become a good word for word. For more than 30 years, I have observed the progress of the group because I have always been very interested in it. For the most part, I have been very happy with the emphasis and how they have been developed and developed, including direct government policy on how Iceland has developed its methodology in these areas. Of course, it holds the most important credit and has played the most part. For example, I know that they stress that perhaps they disappear from the fact that we Icelanders should base primarily on our expertise in the waters of the sea and the earth, so you don't talk about older and primitive ideas, that, in effect, we should use evolutionary cooperation to clear up the way for foreign projects somehow in this area. I can just admit that I was a childhood like many others, and with that thought for years, but I've matured away from it, and now I see, of course, how primitive it really was and really unprofessional. In recent years, we have put emphasis on women's issues, on children's issues, on basics such as education, health care, equality, access to safe drinking water, and so forth. These are all the emphasis I like and have enjoyed. The only dissatisfaction is the lack of confidence we have in the past, this rich country, to contribute. It has always been embarrassing, and is still, and particularly embarrassing, now that we are again growing economically, that people are not going to be at ease and reach these proportions and donations. The results of this work are good, and no one can understand me to belittle what was done well, e.g. in the fields of the earth's heat and fishing in Namibia and thus in other parts of the earth. But I think we've been moving our focus just in the right direction, closer and closer to the close-up communities where our people are working and working at home and working with communities below with women and children and setting the foundation for our communities. It is good to help with the development of employment, energy use, and so forth, but in reality it is what these communities have the most need for, i.e. The support of the structure, the infrastructure, makes life more bearable in close communities, that you do not have to walk for an hour after water with earthen vessels on the head of the evening and the mornings, and so on. There we can be sure that little ones are important. I've been an amateur about the fact that the North countries' cooperation in this field, and I actually made that suggestion in the Northern Council for a year and a half or so, which I think I have approved, I have to admit I don't know exactly where it is in the system. But she was well-founded, and I think I'm just saying that she was sent out for a review by a prime committee in which governments in the North countries are being encouraged to examine further cooperation, promoting cooperation with the Northern countries as a whole in this field. This is especially the case with professional institutions. They're very hot, and the North countries are standing just in front of Iceland and some of Finland. At that time, all three countries have met the goal of defending 0.7% of the population income and some are actually better at developing cooperation. Such institutions as SIDA and DANIDA are very powerful. For example, I have known their work throughout the past two, three years apart, representatives from the Northern States have been assembled, perhaps two from each country, and men have visited areas where the development community organizations are working and with UN institutions in that area, much learning trips. I had the option of taking one of these to Nicaragua with the current highest. Secretary of finance, Bjarni Benediktsson, as a traveling companion. It was a very valuable journey. The choice was to travel to Nicaragua because of a disaster there, a great hurricane had caused terrible destruction on the eastern coast of the underdeveloped region. And who were there now, had come first, and were doing the most? Yes, it was the big, strong Norwegian development agencies, especially the Danes and the Swedes that were coming on the road, that were fixing the schools that had crashed. For example, from that trip, we had a meeting in a village on the eastern coast at an without roofing school. It was the only place that was to be found, the rest of the school, where most of the walls were left standing. The locals asked if there was any way to get them a hook and a place to go. They thought about Iceland 200 years ago. This is the situation in many places where these things are being dealt with. I think that might add to the cooperation of the Northern countries. I believe it should be on a professional basis. Then all politics would be pushed aside, and it doesn't matter if there were any different priorities for the current international affairs, if that were the case, between the northern countries. In fact, I would also have wanted to see that the Norwegian Development Bank would be rebuilt. Although it is good and blessed that he was, in effect, converted into an environment fund, he lives on the income he has of his old loans and original stocks. I miss the fact that the North countries had it off to have some sort of evolutionary bank on their side, I would have thought it better. These and many more would be nice to discuss if we were just not talking about this bill, but discussing how we can do better in these areas, what professional emphasis we should make, and whether we can work more closely with other countries like North countries, etc. Instead, time and energy are being spent discussing this bill, which is in no way progressive. How sad it is to spend time on it! If we're to try to read some of the evidence presented here, it's to integrate and coordinate the work in a single place within the Ministry's wall. But what is being said about it? Then let us look also in that regard. Is it being said that there is some way to integrate Iceland's political emphasis on foreign affairs and professional views on developing cooperation? Is that what they're saying? So, do we want to? Not me. Then I refer to my childhood when I may have been a little bit of aggressor to the view that Iceland could focus on geothermal use and the control of fishing would penetrate the market in distant countries through such things, but there is an illicit connection in the discussion of these matters today. That's not the way it should be. It is of utmost importance that when working with countries and territories in difficult situations, often in very delicate and delicate circumstances, there is absolutely no suspicion that people are going anywhere but to support the territory and its inhabitants to themselves; there are no other viewpoints on the route but professional views on that basis; there is no politics in the case. That is why I think the case is self-concerned if you try to find out the only argument that the divine name gives you here. I think the opposite is possible with an independent, professional, independent professional agency that does this role. Let us consider, then, whether some personal advantage is likely to be due to this rather than to political integration. I wonder who's the best judge. Yes, there could be an office on public financial matters at the Ministry of finance. It is her noble task to give a review of the bills. There's a very interesting reading, to be honest, I've seen so many reviews of that kind. It is reviewed at 2 mg. that there are nine employees in the Department of Development at the Ministry office and that is also nine employees at the head office of the Development Agency in Reykjavík. The rest is then six men at the district and localised people. So, with the permission of the president, the government office at the Ministry of finance says: It is not expected that the integration will lead to changes in the number of employees, and it is not expected to change in housing, but the Ministry's and TSSI co-works are already working closely together and have their dwellings in the same home. Thus, legalization of the bill is not expected to affect the labour costs of the group for the first time. Nevertheless, the combination is expected to reduce the degree of inadequacy and double pain that may, in time, lead to increased economic improvements in management and management. This is the way I've never heard it spoken before to my friends who are using machines. It is suggested that there is a far - reaching possibility that at some point in the future there might be some practical option. That's all there is to it. There are no strong reasons for the case in that direction. Since it's like this, they're under the same roof and they work very well together already, I'm going to ask again, "What's the problem? In fact, the question might be turned around and asked: Wait, would it not be possible just to bring more work to the Development Network, to ease the burden of the Ministry so that it can concentrate on the personal foreign policy and to receive back this developing organization to a greater extent and to care for it, even the participation in international cooperation and all two - sided projects? Why not? So, in effect, the so - called arguments that are not really any can be turned in and said that they could just as well as perhaps further recommend evolution in the opposite direction, to promote the professional and independent institution. Finally, Mr. President, I feel that I cannot help but call attention to how sad it is that we are wasting the time of the Generalis and all of us in this place instead of being held, and the highest. The minister too, how can we do better in this regard? V.E.G. Of course, a minister of state should be properly committed to spending his energy and time fighting for increased donations for developing cooperation instead of being offered that the government is not even going to live up to its own ambitious plans as they appeared to us at the beginning of the season. No, there's still more cuts. It is not even part of the plans for an increase introduced by the government, a time when people boast about the leftovers of a government fund and a great profit. When if you're not going to try to reach these proportions? When, if we are not going to try to reassign Iceland's contributions to development cooperation, if we are ever going to be able to carry our heads reasonably in that regard? Is world conditions really out of place? Does it appear that way when they look around? Doesn't seem like it to me, I'm sorry. In general, there are many other signs that there will be more refugees, more people who will be without housing, that more people even live under famine than they have done for decades. So the need is screaming, and Iceland is supposed to do better in these substances. It is to be part of our ambition as an independent nation, who has grown up from the ashes of poverty in one hundred, 120 years, and since being receivers in this matter of being able to do well, to show that we want to do so. The bill's got nothing to do with it, nothing. If something is, it's a distraction. For example, it is always good to have a professional independent organization that itself can establish reasons for gaining additional funds for projects. Do you think it will come from a Ministry of Ministers who has made compromises in the government and has swallowed up his money? [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] Of course not!
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u56	President. Thank you. A public speaker. In his case, he said that he would prefer to be here discussing policy, what direction we should take in developing cooperation, what work we should do, and to discuss the big lines rather than to be in the discussion of the so - called start line. I'd love to, sir, a respectable president, say something. A senator in that regard. He also mentioned what he called, and I agree with him in that too, a quiet argument, a respectable president, that because there has been some economy or changes in the Ministry and an office called a development agency should be accepted as a professional agency. I want to agree with what. A senator's argument is a joke. I would like to agree with the senator that it is far more difficult to take this step back. Suppose everything was in the ministry, and an institution would be set up and then removed, then this institution in the world, one of the people we use, is gone. Won't it be hard to wind off the bad steps in the future?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u57	Mr. President. Yes, parking down and disappearing from the surface of the earth with all that comes with. The conference disappears, her special staff will be stirred into the Ministry, which raises questions about how the human staff will be used inside the store, for example if they will be sent to the foreign posts of the Ministry, etc. As it happens, the State Department is a little special. It's not quite traditional in the sense that there's workers out there traveling and flying and working at home or in the embassies and assignments abroad that I'm not necessarily sure are in line with this. I take back that I do not feel that it is in itself evidence that the Ministry has rebaptized some office, there has become some sort of name change or a slight organizational change in the Ministry, and because there is now something called a development research agency, there is now evidence such as the putting down of an evolutionary research agency itself. There's no reason. If this were some more recent debate in the group that I see so no special need for, as shown by the recent legislation and how well the reviews have been made, it might be considered. I have often imagined that those days would be set in Iceland, because the office of foreign ministers such as some in the hall knows is busy and that it follows a lot of travel, that there would be a number of the advisers, there would be a formal assistant minister or something, and that he would perform the evolutionary cooperation to ease the number of foreign ministers on the other. If this were connected to something like that you could see an offense look at, you'd be ready to look at it, but it's just not. [[The president calls.]] It's just this one change, a strange change, an irrational change to put down a developing research agency. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u58	A respectable president. I noticed in the Senate speech earlier, and I thought it well said that he called it a somewhat primitive view of evolutionary cooperation that men are trying to clear up some business path, that a country that did something to develop as a team would be trying to run and care for some kind of career. Hv. A senator called it a primitive view of developing cooperation, and I want to agree with it. Indeed, it is fundamental to discuss how we treat other nations in this vital work. Then I will say that it has puzzled me in these discussions, since many have said that there have been no members of the government. They have not been exposed to this discussion. - Honorable President. Now I've got two minutes, all of a sudden?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u59	The president says the time is fighting us, but the president has his eyes on time and time. A senator still has a few seconds to make his move.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u60	Yeah, that's fine. Thank you, Mr. Honorable President. I wanted to ask you what. A senator because he has more political experience than I do: Is it common that in such large matters as these, the members of the council sit by and don't say excerpt and have no opinion?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u61	Mr. President. I'm not going to swear that it didn't happen on chapters that governments chose to be rather quiet and quiet while handling things from governments, e.g. The difficult things that turned into economic problems and such things, but there is a difference between right and wrong matters of this kind that need not be handled. I think it's hard to interpret the silence of the governors here, but they don't have much to do with this. They do not want to put forth much effort to help the minister. They do not step in and reason on this matter. I haven't heard them out of the mouth of one of your superiors. Is it not correct to remember that there was only one member of the board actually giving a speech in this case, apart from the lead in committees, and the party was against it or at least. had such doubts? [[Up front.]] And there is still a warning, so this suggests that the matter has limited support. About a previous question in answer to a previous question. A senator's decision that it would be difficult to take the step back if the Agency was to be laid down, yes, I'm afraid of that very much. It is natural in general not to create or multiply new government institutions. However, a man should never say, the office of the State Master has now been restored during the days, and suddenly some administrative agency may not be as holy as they want to be. Of course, the key point is that such a waste is at that time. Despite the conclusion that this was all a mistake, obviously there would have been a lot of waste, a lot of time in this uncertainty and cycle, uncertainty with employees, and risking loss of professional knowledge, wear, tear, or trosni on the way. Before going into such an operation, a person should think very carefully, so that he does not lose valuables in such a process and so on, but when there is no reason to do so. This case is completely untimely, and it should at all take much more time to cross this issue before it comes to a definitive conclusion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u62	Mr. President. You're right about what you're doing. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon is sad that the council has to spend its time discussing just as stupid and stupid a bill as what is now laid before it. At any rate, he may be comforted by the failure of his lot. A minister of state who has chosen to go to a distant corner of the land but has to represent his case here. Also to say, "what's wrong?" The head of the State Department of State has also encouraged her to include her lung from the discussion, spending time with other people, and I do not blame her for that. Hv. In his talk, a senator wondered whether it should have been better to consider going the opposite way with what is suggested here, i.e. to accept all the issues of development cooperation from the Ministry and move to the Agency. That's a good idea. Senator. It so happens, as stated in the DEC report, that the development committee's unique position points to the National State Department's special status, despite the legal nature of a special institution under the 2-sided assignment, is 48% of the budget, still protected by the Ministry of State and passed through it. Whether the Ministry of State is acting in effect according to the letter of the law can be wondered. This has been examined by none other than the man who long led life. Chairman of the State Department, former chairman of the Independence Party, Davíð Oddsson. He came to the conclusion, the guide who, although a controversial one, had done many good things. That this should be done after hiding the present position. Secretary of education looking into it. [[The president calls.]] So I'm gonna ask you why. þm. Steingrímur J. Sigfusson whether the gang that obviously lays its mark on members of the Independence Party for the matter may be due to their knowing that they are walking here for evil work and against one of their own careers. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u63	Mr. President. It may well be that it does not add to the independence interest of breaking into pieces for this matter that their former officer, perhaps still, is involved in this story. Of course, the material conclusion is as valid and strengthened simply by better eyes than by an eye where others have reached similar conclusions. It would have been nice to see these two lines set up and compare them together, either to take them all over to the Ministry and to make the separation clear by moving these projects to where they're either supposed to be according to the organization, to the Developmental Group, and to look at them. Of course, I'm sorry that we're wasting our time on this case, on this nonsense, both for the council and for the country, but I think it's the least possible thing that we're throwing this category of uncertainty, the Agency, the personnel and the seminars as such, and that there's such delicate disagreements about such matters. Throughout the years, however, it was always tried to make sure that there was as much cross - political solidity behind this series as possible. I know this very well because, over the years, I often went through a discussion and wondered: Must I be a director of a developing research agency or be somewhat consulted on the matter? The result was always the same: Yes, there should be a parapolitic approach to this matter because it's good for the group, it's a backdrop, it needs to have support everywhere. Hence, it was always a conclusion, though, whether it was necessary to do so or, over the years, a need to have control of a developing research organization, to do so. [[The president calls.]] It's fragile. I think it's the best. Ministers do not do good by running a disagreement on the current issue. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u64	Mr. President. V.E.G. A minister does no good by bringing this matter. He is not helping any cause or least himself, not even less than the government's cause by trying to run this case here against the second winter in a row, although it is known that for the case there is no support at the Allied Council of Iceland. No human from the management team has relied on him to recommend the matter in full speech. As we have noted here many times, the only man who has addressed and held a speech from the management team found a number of factors to be avoided, making it absolutely clear. To be honest, this case, as it's run, has begun to smell a veneer against the workers of the Development Agency who can sit under appeals, innuendo and inflates of the highest degree. A minister without him stands for his case. What have they done wrong? All that after arriving at the State Department, they have answered questions. They allowed themselves to report unworkedly when asked. A minister introduced his decision to them, and they asked for reasons, and he said: "It doesn't need reasoning. It says everything that needs to be said about it. So, what happened when I was at the highest level? To visit one of our fellow workers, a minister went to Africa? The first request, according to the Government Radio, was not specifically requested that any workers in the Development Agency follow the Minister. Why else does this smell like something other than a vendetta to the workers? [[Up front.]] I'm asking. I'm in a lot of panic because I think it's about to be part of a hidden piece of work. This institution is a standard institution of government reexamination. It is because of her novelty, freshness, and sensitivity that she drew in addition to the contribution of the state of 1st you. Millions of foreign funds were given on the Agency's projects. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] You wonder, " How is it in the world that people are going to put down an organization that works really well? ' [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u65	Mr. President. That is why the defence is not at the top. A minister may be absent here on a lon and ahon and not come and answer this matter. If there was any doubt that this was a legitimate requirement here at the beginning of the day, they should not doubt it anymore. It is, of course, as it all holds, that the Minister alone can answer and represent the cause that he stands here. The fact is that there is nothing behind this matter other than the very will of the minister himself. He's bit it. Perhaps he was initially convinced of it by some State Department monopoly, many of whom suspect that he long wanted this change. They have never been observed until the present minister of foreign affairs seems to have swallowed this raw and unconcerned matter. At this point, the solution will be to consider: Is there any way out of this country? Is it possible to save the man somehow from this nonsense with his face in the right place? Can there be any agreement to set this matter aside for a while and to take it to some point of assessment, wait for the findings of the DaAC mentioned, and so on? I can't quickly see another better thing in my situation, although it's certainly not good for someone to push them forward over the group of litigators. I've been more convinced of that, including Here, that there is everything you can do today to keep the minister from getting away with this. You must challenge members of all categories, not only in the government position, but also in the constitutions, to sit down and think your own way. Are people really going to let this happen? Is everyone with a good conscience for paying this huge vote when the matter really is a complete collapse on the basis of some solid argument?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u66	V.E.G. President. When we discuss matters at the General Assembly, we feel a sense of duty. We feel obliged to participate in discussions about important matters, and this matter is certainly important. We're dealing with a vast financial institution, and it's about how it's done in the system. As the discussion of developing as a cohesive agency continues, I always feel that it has a change of face. Instead of the sense of duty that shines from the sermons, we have a sense of urgency. People don't care what's happening. Reflecting on the evidence, when listening to the case of members of the council who have studied the matter, they feel the need to try to influence the course of things. This is about to happen one trip back here. The discussion is beginning to change the expression, it's moving much more unanimous and eager, and I'd like to call it, on the part of those who speak against it. The media are often essential in politics, and I don't think anyone is arguing about it. Most of us have engaged in compromises of some kind and do not view them as bad, not as poetry on our part. It's different about a horse shop, it's a different arm. I'd like to say that the bill we're discussing here is part of a horse trade between the parties, between the forward party and the Independence Party. You see, for this matter of Congress, I don't think there's any more in this room. If one should honestly answer how they feel about this bill, I believe that a greater proportion of members of the council would be opposed, no would be answered. The danger is that it will not be for votes because it is part of a horse's bargain. I am convinced that the Independence Party and most of its members are opposed to this bill, highly opposed, but that they will be pressured to pass the case, and therefore they have been torn out of a committee to speed it up to get another bill against, the Independence Party. I'm talking about a bill about public finances against which the forward party is opposed. If the forwarding party and his senators should vote on it, they'd push the no-go. It's my feeling after talking to men and listening to senators discussing these two matters. I think this is the attitude. Sadly, the conclusion could be that both the bills would be accepted by members of both administrations because they are bound to participate in horse trades. That's the ugly part of it. If we were here dealing with some national agreement, and this change in law was of no importance to us, we were to leave it alone. We're talking about an institution that calls for a very little business money. Do you realize that the operation of the Development Organization is just over 100 million, 137 million? However, the magnitude of the sea is billions, and this one wants to be the highest. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is reaching the Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u67	Right.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u68	That's what it's all about. Then I ask, " What are some of the interests that this may serve? ' Will the management be more specific? Will it be more beneficial? Then consider that there are many organizations and many areas that overlap today in the walls of the Ministry of State. Is the business there especially beneficial? Is he totally clear to us in this room? I don't think so. On the other hand, the running of the Development Agency is. I'm not criticizing other institutions or other areas that interfere with this, I simply insist that an institution is being taken that is being systematically fired, where the books and decisions are as transparent as possible, and brought under the direction of the Ministry of State. Is that wise? No. Just as it would not be wise to take the road type that is under the State Department and move it to level 3 or 4 in the State Department. That would be crazy. We'd like to have these activities, and I'd like to refer there to both the development and the road or other functions, we'd like to have what is defined as a unit, which is then driven in a targeted and transparent way. As a result of the development of Iceland's Institute of Development, it has been observed in this country that when Italians consider reevaluation of their systems, they look to Iceland, among other things, to bring their organization to the place we live and have made since the law was changed in 2008 and the arrangement we know today, they look to light. This historical setting is most excellent in the committee's list of smaller parts of the State Department. I'm gonna let myself read a few lines, with the permission of a president: ▪ Iceland's development team has been passed on by law No. 121/2008, of Iceland's international development cooperation, has been the result of two- sided development in Iceland's cooperation with a team of cooperation countries, representing 40% of Iceland's contribution to the seminary. In turn, the Ministry of State conducts about 60% of initiatives that are provided for a broad range of development cooperation and the two - sided development team that goes through international institutions. - Then a report published by the Ministry that is very controversial, especially by those who have studied the matter during the past few weeks and months after this bill was seen and reflected in a discussion at the council. That's not enough, we've been told that OECD, a short-acting DMA, is having a study of a suitable arrangement in this area. Men who oppose this bill have been asked to do so, wanting to at least get a shot at it until we get the results from that study. I feel that we should. What's going on? What in the world is what action is, except to meet the demands of the highest. A minister of state who seems to have had his soul twisted to the point that this case must be cleared, that he must be successful in this legislation at the expense of professional views and the work being run by the Developmental Cooperative Agency? I repeat what I referred to at the beginning of my case, if the development community was a problem child, an institution that wouldn't have been successful in a job that was inexhaustible in all its ways, I could not understand. The opposite is true. There will be praise everywhere, both within and outside the country. It's the Department of State with the highest authority. Secretary of state, in the power of state, who wants to drive this through. And what to do? The Agency is to be laid down. No, sir, tell the carriers, the Agency should not be laid down, it's just being organized and transferred under the attention of the State Department's wing. No, I object because the reality is that the Agency would be put into the present form and introduced into an entirely different environment. That's what's happening. We know what we have, and we fear what we may receive. This is why we work very hard to accomplish this bill. I repeat what I said earlier, asking people to think about it: " How on earth does it always move into this discussion? Is that not worth considering? This is because when people listen to the evidence and study it more fully, they are convinced that what is suggested here is incomprehensible. V.E.G. President. Before a council member has a committee opinion on this subject, I have to say that I find the Commission's opinion of a smaller part of the State Department of State Affairs very revealing and, at the same time, very decisive in their conclusions. I was thinking about this earlier day that this matter had been taken out of the Council's Foreign Affairs Committee without allowing the matter to be considered. Those who refer to that arrangement say that there was previously talk and discussion. I just want to know if there have been any new indications and views in the reviews that have been received since we last discussed the matter. For my part I say that as I learn this matter better, I object more. It's just that way. This matter is not to be passed quickly through the council. It can't happen. Actually, I don't want it through at all, but I'd be willing to agree to compromise. The media is that we are waiting for the investigation carried out by OECD before making decisions. Let it happen, let's not change now, let's let the next year pass, and then take it back into discussion. I'm not saying that that we agree with the changes presented here, but at least we have a grammatical basis to build on. Finally, I would like to read a few lines from the bottom of a minority opinion from a foreign - language committee, where the smaller section points to arguments that have been handed down, and there it shows that the bill is neglected, unconvinced, and partly based on misunderstandings. There are no grammatical criteria for putting YSSI down. THE Agency has done good work, newcomers, and fresh work in the Agency's activities, as shown by the Agency's ability to obtain more than 700 million. K. from foreign institutions into Icelandic projects. Thus, in view of the above, the lesser part considers it proper to consider seriously whether the better way to transport projects from the State Ministry of State to the SSI is to be done on the basis of Iceland's global development team so that at least any two - side development aid is being provided by the Agency even now, with the government planning a gradual rise in the development of international development cooperation - the lesser part of which certainly hopes to be realized. Under these circumstances, the government should consider strengthening the role of the YES rather than putting it down. At the same time, in the next year, the DOCsature institution I referred to and operates by OECD and studies and specializes in evolutionary cooperation - the form of the so - called peer review of the SISSI, where the framework for Iceland's development team will include: See the box "What Does It Really Mean to You? " Would it be real to work professionally to promote Iceland's international development team, it would be reasonable for the government to delay the assessment of DMA instead of putting in the poor, well - thought - out changes now, where the aim seems to be something completely different than to ensure that Iceland's contributions yield the maximum damage and that the poor people in collaborating countries will be most useful. Under this rule, representatives of all categories will be writing on the side of the board. I call attention to what I started on, that I am convinced that the members of the Independence Party are opposed to this issue, but this is part of the government's horse markets and a government forwarding party. The Independence Party receives a bill on government finance across the council, contrary to the approval of the parish members, we've heard a number of times. We have previously heard that his members oppose the issue. I agree very much with them, but instead of migrating in that case, it's going to go through with it. So these are typical horse purchases. This is not to be observed, and especially in a valuable and important institution, an institution that has done its work almost irreprehensibly in the opinion of those who are familiar with it. She deserves something other than a horse's purchase between an independent party and a forwarding party.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u69	Mr. President. Hv. Jónasson I have to say exactly as it is that I couldn't have said it better myself. Hv. A senator cut directly into the core of this matter. He gave the case the grade they deserve. He said it was a horse trade at the Council. He's absolutely right. As we have learned from many speakers today, it is shocking that members of the management body do not trust in this case to support it by giving talks at the International Assembly of Iceland. There is a possibility that the case has no support in the administration team. The only discrepancies I'm gonna do with what I'm gonna do. A senator said that he felt that the members of an independent party are opposed. His words made it clear that the Fragile Party members were not. I believe that many of the senators of the Foreign Party are also opposed. I can't believe that the senators of the Future Party are grouping up against one of the great remains of one of the most successful leaders of the forward Party, the Ólafur of Jóhannesson, who made this organization fast decades ago. I can't believe it until I deal with it. The other is clear that this case is unique in that it is the only case at its height. Secretary of state has. We don't see any business around the North. V.E.G. In fact, ministers struggle to do their will toward the EU. This is the only case proposed, except for an endless lead-in with the EU in the Minister's Constitution. That's why he puts this super emphasis on it. [[Up front.]] Because of what? paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson, former president of the Legal Association, calls something I can't tell, but I thought it was an objection to what I'm saying. It's totally preconceived that the case is a sign of the tactics that have sworn to the General Assembly and brought it down to the public opinion of the common people, and that it undermines trust. I agree with what. paritaprevir Ögmundur the son of Jónasson's attitude when he condemns the practices, which are an example of the worst that can be found at the General Assembly of the Icelanders, and that is the wedding of the ruling parties now in power. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u70	V.E.G. President. If that's true. A senator says it's worse and more serious than I thought. I believed that there were mainly members of the Independence Party, in view of the greater part of the government, who were opposed to this bill. Now it's a question of why. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson that he believed that many of the senators of the Foreign Party, he mentioned no particular number, in effect in his heart, are also opposed to this bill. I think that's a very serious thing. One thing I'd like to mention, and take advantage of the fact that I'm facing what I'm saying. A senator and would like to direct a question to him, even though he is opposed to me, and it has to do with his job on the foreign committee. It has been asserted in the conference that the matter was taken out of the commission without giving any empty space to review any comments received and to meet the committee with the members that special members of the Foreign Affairs Committee wanted to meet with her. I'd like to have this confirmed in the General's symposium because I think it's a serious thing. It has been customary during the council, I do not talk about in controversial matters, that positions of government or critics in controversial matters are allowed to bring all arguments into the discussion of the committee before a matter is taken out and sent to the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u71	Mr. President. The matter was not taken up in a fight on a foreign matter committee. It was also discussed last year, but there were new members of Congress who had joined the committee, and the fact is that the matter was not covered. For example, the review referred to here was from the Cyclone organization against corruption, which was of great importance and gave strong reasons against this transformation, over which it was never taken. Other comments that had also been received last year were never taken, so we can be absolutely clear. Hv. A senator believes that there is new evidence in the case when I claim it. The senators do not support this case. True, I put it so that I thought that many of the senators of the Company did not. I say so because they have not trusted in coming here to support the subject in their speech. But the other thing is that they are my coworkers. I know these people, and they're intelligent creatures. They have listened to the reasoning. I think that, like many others, they were originally seduced by the deceptions presented in the case. For example, reading the cover - up article but also based on the false reports of the OECD development committee is a complete non-employment. It's not just my opinion that this great report is being misinformed. In case of a moment. For example, members of Parliament remembered to read opinions, and the comments of the Allied Union of Iceland, they are seeing this through their eyes. They have clearly assigned the task of looking for any reason in the report that refers to the report of the OECD development committee and that they consult the DOCECD report and simply say: What is stated in the report is not included in an informed report. So that is my conclusion. Congress officials naturally applied the case to the council, but then two masks have been dropped, and that is why the minister has not come here to support the case. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u72	V.E.G. President. Hv. A senator points to the fact that in the majority of homes and in a paper with the bill, there are mischievous objects and innuendos.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u73	Not in the majority opinion, in the report.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u74	- The report contains misinulators and pimps. This in itself is serious if it is true, and I am not questioning it, but what is serious in the context today is that those responsible for such reports are not there to try to refute and represent it. I feel that this is a serious matter to me. They've been calling for it all day. The minister of state will attend the discussion, leaving that he cannot do so for some reason, temporarily today, at which point it would have been the least necessary to postpone and discuss other matters. There are dozens of cases from members of the council waiting for a discussion at the council, and it would have been a slow problem to address one of them today and therefore tomorrow if that was a problem for the Supreme Court. Minister to the council. But I think, at least. President, it's a minimum requirement for those who support the bill, of course, to look first and foremost. Ministers, but other council members who support this bill, come up here and defend their cause. If they reason to use this case through the council, we need to hear their argument. When they say that there are pimps and misinformeds, it is something that the General has a right to hear that they are trying to refute. I think that's a minimum requirement.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u75	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A member of the council for a fine talk on this olive language brought in to the Generals. As noted in his case, runners in the race from being seen or participating in this discussion. Unfortunately, there is nothing new. But where it is. Jónasson I'd like to ask him about this on the staff matter. I have to have a little history, a respectable president, to do this. Here at the council, there is a bill to legalize the union of the Oceanographic Institute and the Medieval Institute. There's a completely new path that we haven't taken care of before. I know both me and what. paritaprevir The concentration of Jónasson had never been so compatible with transportation, but this new route is founded by some of the government's approval since March 2, 2015, where they cite, among other things, the proposals of a financial group, the government's declaration of reducing institutions, etc. And they shall choose a certain way of three that are laid down: and the way that is laid shall be, All the work shall be laid down. New jobs created in a new institution or an institution that existed before, etc. I've criticized this with the discussion about the bill I spoke of a Marine Research Institute and a Veterans Institute, and I think it's a completely new way. For example, the court of remuneration is not known. So I ask. Councilman: Is it not in his opinion that it is not entirely new here, an incompetent way, in which social exchange laws, often followed, are removed from a relationship that, of course, cannot be made by a simple government decision? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u76	V.E.G. President. For public planning changes, when organizations are combined or modified, treat the agreements and the laws. It is difficult to make radical changes in the rights of employees. You must be very careful about these things. I call attention to the fact that last spring was approved by law here at the council, which facilitates the transfer between institutions and between working fields without the loss of jobs. I can't remember any better than we'd take part in a discussion about that exact subject here at the council. In view of this, I wonder that this route has gone. There's one thing to consider, too. If you bring a person to work in a legal and treatal rights, you will protect his rights and rights as well. If you drop your job, at least temporarily you take away his rights. He is more dependent on those who hold the wand, the whip as a result, so the staff's legal status is being weakened in this respect. I would have thought that there should not be any such changes without it being done in a very close partnership with the unions. And well - meaning, unions, of course, need to be very aware of their role and chiefly to protect the staff's rights. My answer is: Yes, I think it's a very strange thing to call for a special consideration on the part of us at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u77	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer and inserting this discussion, and especially agree with what he said. It is a difficult task to unite organizations, and to do so is not always against them. For example, we members of the United States agreed to be united with the National Institute of Marine Research and Fishing because we believe it will be for the benefit of both institutions, but we were against the method used. I don't think there's much to talk about this new route, after this approval of the government, because it's only in a memorading form and as a simplely approved executive. I don't like how they're going to walk through that door. For example, it was stated that there was no consultation with the employees of these institutions on the basis of a work programme. They had nothing to do with it. For example, they made the most comment on the shoddy route that has gone up to all employees -- it was shown at this week's meeting that the institutions have no idea what the remuneration rights will take on it - instead of going on the usual route, which is to ask employees to continue working and to combine this with unions and employees as they have done in a number of ways. For example, I call together transportation agencies that both me and my family. A senator arrived at his own time, and I think he did very well. In other words, there's a new route. I'm asking why. A senator to see if he has stumbled into the evidence he has, of course, successfully gone through - that new government approval is the way that is to deal with the negatives that I've done here as a subject and as a subject of speech. A member of the body discussed how rights are being moved is unclear. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u78	V.E.G. President. I think it's a reason to take this case in particular, and I'm also going to allow myself to encourage the national media to be vigilant in this regard, because I have suspected that this is part of another development too, i.e. ... toturnthe unions aside in the workplace. They are trying to set up some currently known total graffiti agreements into the future, where all the irons go to play. But at work I fear that the unions are pushed aside. We, in the time of the last government, tried to protect the interests of employees when organizational changes and unity were under attack. Unfortunately, the sequel didn't always work out, and I specifically mention a Grouping Agency there. On the contrary to the promises made, and I speak there only for myself, the commitments to which everything was meant to be fulfilled were not fulfilled. The outcome of this is not completely understood, but we need to look very critical, and also self - critical, when we are talking about organizational changes and promises and promises made by employees. I agree with what. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller, that it is important that we take this matter for special consideration and that we seek the opinion of the union in this regard. I will not leave mine there.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u79	Mr. President. This was a request today for the highest order. A minister of foreign affairs would come to the meeting to explain certain questions and attitudes. That's when they were informed to the top. A minister would be far from joking out of the way. He would be doing business for the advance party in Theggar. All things are well said, and it is probably not unnecessary that these last and worst times also take place. But it has been noted in the discussion that there were serious misinformation in this bill. It was considered in the review of the National Association of Iceland that, first of all, could not be discussed at the State Department, but secondly, no claim can be made to be held here by the head of the case. The head of the State Department can explain it. No one can explain it but the highest. Secretary of state. Therefore, I request that the discussion be postponed until the Supreme Court. The minister of foreign affairs is able to disfellowship the forwarding party's affairs in order to carry out his convocation duties. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u80	V.E.G. President. I make a sound primarily to join with what. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson. I also mentioned in my own language that it has been held in Congress that there are serious innuendos and direct misinformation found in this bill. It is not too much to expect. Secretary of state, responsible for the Senate case, will be here for the council and will represent them. These are very serious charges, which have not been offered solely in a Senate hall. Rather, they are found in the references to parties such as the National Association of Iceland. That's why I agree with what. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Accuracy that it is reasonable to delay the discussion and wait until it reaches the highest level. The minister of state may be here during the discussion and represent his case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u81	A respectable president. I agree with the request that the discussion be postponed until the Minister sees how to come here. The reason for this is because we realize that there is tremendous opposition to this matter, and there are also some points of opinion in the report. I would have thought that those who care for foreign affairs in the plot would be at peace with their major lawsuits. We have many suggested in our discussions here to try to sit down to make peace and try to work together on how to proceed with it because I know it can be done. But there seems to be some running on the board of directors in this case that I don't quite understand where it came from. So, since this is so much opposition, I want the minister to come down here and sit down with us, and we'll discuss in what way we can resolve the issue here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u82	Mr. President. I have to agree with those who have spoken here. I think it's very important in the light of the controversy that the minister is coming here. The head of the State Department has been here. It is good and blessed, but it does not likely yet provide an answer to the misinformation presented in the paper with the bill. It's a 2nd. and it is important before you think things will be clear and clear whether a minister agrees with these facts as noted and whether he intends to correct them or whether they are wrong. The head of the Committee believes that things will be changed in the light of the comments presented here. Of course, there are large questions in this issue that have not been answered. When he introduced the matter at the council, the minister did not answer, and then other questions have been raised that need to be answered. In view of the controversial nature of the matter, it is desirable that a minister be here to answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u83	President. The more we discuss this matter, the more we will see that the minister's failure to attend this discussion is completely disturbing. Hv. paritaprevir Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir has been here, maybe not quite at the beginning of the discussion, I didn't see her at least, she's probably been in her office, but she's been in the room right now. However, she was not present during this discussion when she took her last spring, and she refused to call people up for a discussion and review the comments of the committee in the fall, so it may not be expected that she will be able to answer for this matter. So, like other senators, I have to insist that we postpone a meeting, at least. It is a beautiful request that a meeting be postponed and held at the highest level. A minister will see fit to take care of us instead of his voters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u84	Mr. President. It is clear at the clock that this discussion will not end today, and we will continue to do so tomorrow. That is why I want to put in my mind, both at the highest level. The president of the Committee and the other representatives of the greater part of our language. The matter is certainly in the custody of the council, and we have previously seen a fine example showing that the council took cases that in some way have been neglected or made that it would be better to take them along on the way of reconciliation and bring them into that direction. For example, I would like to mention the restoration of a natural protection layer that was able to prevent and lead on a positive, positive course. I know why. A senator and chairman of the State Department was the first to introduce new alien laws into a parapolitic channel, which is the very case category of the above discussion, i.e. A group of cases that we should try to achieve a parapolitic solidarity. That's why I want to pray. paritaprevir Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, and other representatives of the greater part here, to consider it until the morning when this discussion is interrupted, trying to get everyone to the table and consider the next step.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u85	Mr. President. I have a question I want to ask for the Presidential District, and it's this: if it turns out that there's been a misinformation in the paper with a bill, who's to answer for it? Who is to answer when a powerful organization that is well respected and has worked for decades here for the benefit of society, such as Iceland's Common Association, points to a mistranslation? Can it be expected that it would be the chairman of a foreign business committee who would render an answer? No, I don't think so. She's not responsible for the report. There's only one man, and that's the highest. Secretary of state. I think that everyone in this room must agree with my demand for this, and I ask, for example, "What does it say? " paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason about this? He thinks it's normal for him to go to the highest. The minister of state is on the scene of Théofur in the advance of the Agency when it comes to informing whether Iceland's All-American Association hit the nail when it pointed to this misdemeanor? Someone has to answer for that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u86	A respectable president. I don't think it's funny at all. A senator sits here in a side room and giggle. This is serious. It is serious that the minister of foreign affairs is not there to answer for his proposal. It is serious that members of Congress who support this government will not speak up and give their thoughts to this very objective bill where it is suggested that one of the most rumored, if I may use that word even though it is not a good Icelandic one, or that a very cool agency will be put down like that. There's a lot of professionals working for us, and they're good for us everywhere people know about this institution. And it's no joke, and there's nothing to be surprised about not saying anything about this big case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u87	A respectable president. We are here many members of the council who have a wish to the president that the discussion would be interrupted and waited until the highest level of time. A minister of foreign affairs may be present and will answer the questions raised above and may even try to attack us in order to achieve some solidarity over the laxness of this matter. I think it's a little strange that we're just standing here talking into the nothing. I would like to have some reaction from the president in what way to respond to our wishes. It's not like there's a lot of business going on from the government. There's not many things going on. I don't understand why people have to drive this case so hard. Why not try to sit down together and see if there are any possible landings? It's become a strange paradox, very strange thing. I don't understand why people put so much emphasis on this matter. It would be nice to have some reaction from the Presidency of this building to these wishes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u88	A respectable president. It's amazing to have the opportunity to come and sit on the high council at such times as a guest, let alone when such a big deal is conceived. I've been sitting here listening to this discussion for almost two hours and hearing reasons. I'm sure I'm a public spokesman out there, sitting in his house listening and wondering about this matter. I don't know anything. I can't hear a argument. I don't get both sides of the case to get an opinion. I think it's a very strange administration if I'm supposed to say it at the moment; it's not well at all. I think the General needs to reconsider how the procedure is, because it's not a role model.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u89	Mr. President. This has been shown in comments from various sources. Senators at the President's Board of Meetings heard the news. The minister of foreign affairs is caring for prominent men and against them has not been recommended. In other words, he is not doing his duty to the council even though it is requested, but the president has not informed the council whether it is the highest. Minister has been notified of this request of the council. I'd like to ask the highest. Because the discussion will be continued here tomorrow: I'm not aware that there is a very clear request in the Assembly Hall to the highest level. Will the minister be present tomorrow if he is not being summoned to the council today? If a minister's involvement in the discussion is seen in some way, is this not a good example of a case in which the Council is to demonstrate its power and its main and State Department to try to catch a transpopolitic landing? [[The president calls.]] Is that not important enough?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u90	The president wants to state that he has listened to what has been presented in the discussions about the President's conference board and will receive an invitation to the president of the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u91	A respectable president. I'm rather sad that we should be discussing this matter in this way because I am absolutely convinced that if a man sat down, there could be some agreement on how we handle it. It is as if there were some paradox or contracts that are behind the scenes between the parties, that it is up to us to drive the case through. There are many of us who have expressed great opposition to this matter. I ask why they don't listen to it. The head of the State Department, what? paritaprevir Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, is here, and I'd like to know why this matter is so urgent. Can we not have a little conversation about how we can handle it? I have heard no one other than the Minister who had to speak for the case and the chairman of the Committee that had to speak for this matter. There's one member of the board, so I've heard, talked, and he was skeptical. That's why I don't understand this too much, and I'm afraid the bill will be taken care of now. I would like to have further evidence of why men are not willing to settle the matter with us and try to figure out something further on the road to development. You see, we made such a tour for 2008 when the overall law on the seminary was adopted. It was a very good time because there had been no total law, and there were clear goals in the group and the setting to follow, as well as policies. That's why I'm surprised that just as soon as we get back, we're going to make a big U-turn in the group that's being decided on here and not listening to an argument. It's been decided. Then you wonder, " Why would a minister decide to take a large seminar class, which is actually a special field and profession, into his office? ' It's something very unusual. I don't remember, for myself I've been on more than two schemes, that we've ever done it this way or thought it would be a normal government to take a legal case like this in the Ministry to us, and then we'd both be doing it as well as keeping an eye on the case. We're in such a government that we have institutions that handle most cases, I don't talk about in a single-sized group of cases. Good boy. The head of the State Department of State when she was the Minister of the Internal Affairs taking the road into his Ministry? Of course not! Why not? Because the road is a professional agency and these are executives, and then it is the Ministry to set the course and line up according to the Council's formula and follow up on the progress. There is nothing else about developing cooperation. Why is such a process of teamwork being carried out? Could this be because this government has no interest in developing cooperation and its affairs? Is that possible? There must be, because respect for the jury relative to this project is nothing. Then we must also find out from the government and the members of the council whether this is the beginning of a business venture into the Ministry. Is this the beginning of something like that? To those questions, to a respectable president, I haven't had any answers in at least Three speeches, because they don't answer. Their honorable president, I'm sorry, I realize that Icelandic is the matter, their strategy, and their plans are simply to lay down the Agency and then to develop cooperation after becoming a minor member of the State Department of State, because the government groups are not interested in the matter. Then you should also dare come and say it, but don't be afraid to say that this has an excellent additive effect. I'm sure taking the road into the State Department would also be a tremendous additive effect if someone thought of doing so with the same reasoning. But you can't think of that. If you think about doing this with a developing research agency, you ask yourself, " Is this because the group of paintings is slowly evicted? ' Humans are not interested in developing cooperation, nor do they consider it to be their task. We have heard it from government spokesmen, from the chairman of a financial committee that has declared that this is not a focus, and others. But people should be honest, stand here, and say it, but do not try to have any other reason for it. So, naturally, we have often considered it in this chair that the current government has sewed very harshly to the Ministry of State on Operation and has allowed it to go far beyond surgery. But men do not save by bringing the Development Organization into the Ministry and thus taking money into one of the projects that are there. That's not a normal procedure, a respectable president. That's one of the things we're protesting. I also need to mention what I have been discussing. That's why we've requested that men wait on this only, waiting for us to get an equal estimate of the development process here in the country and on the activities of the Development Agency, planned for next year. Why not make that decision? Could it be because you don't care about professional assessments? You probably don't care about them. There's been a professional assessment from DMA before. As we entered that excellent bond, the work of the Development Agency and development teamwork in this country was greatly under way, and much was brought forth. Could it be that human beings fear that the level of success of the development community will be reduced for another time and that the Agency will be even harder to lay down and dust people's eyes with words like those in the report and with deception, as reported by more reports on the quality of this work? In the report I've been referring to, and why. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Tasphénsson also did before, and ASI makes it a subject of his review, saying that while Iceland is a small party in this partnership, it's absolutely the same plan as those who have been putting the most part of development cooperation in recent years. It also says that DAC will benefit or get very much out of Iceland's individual viewpoints and experience in this field compared with what they've seen. They also say, and it seems most interesting to me in their review that the distribution of power from the Developmental Research Institute to the office in the field, as it were, for a single subsystem, is a great example because it allows the office to respond more quickly to the needs of local people who again reduce the burden of being with very medium-controlled tools, because developing cooperation must be on the basis of the locals. Developing cooperation based on some from the Western world who feel that they know everything will be there and tell people how things are supposed to be out - of - date. It has been decades since the United Nations made it clear what kind of destruction such attitudes can bring about in the communities that are going to try to help. Since then, efforts have been made to cooperate with the local people in building up their communities on their grounds so that people are not riding the community of whole nations, as unfortunately there are so many tragic examples in the past. So I have to say, I'm concerned that this scene, the distribution of power to the Developmental Research Institute, is particularly praised in the DEC report, i.e. to give their emissaries so much flexibility, to come to an end, and to be seen again in large packages that are not what we are supposed to be looking for. There's nothing else we've taken care of. I'm worried about this and I want to ask the chairman of the Committee how they envision it. Matchs the distribution of authority to be commended into this model, i.e. The ministry's incorporation into the Development Agency? I don't see any better than it's going against the very viewpoints. In my opinion, this is often quite good and reason to unite institutions and do more practical things and to try to reduce construction, however, I believe total delirium in our time, at times when a rise in transparency and leadership are required, and that men can see well what is being done in a single case, to take agencies into the Ministry. I thought it was a joke at first, that men had long jokes in the game. A respectable president. I'm going to say this here that some have taken it down a little bit, saying it's just a formalization. But that's not it. On the surface, it's a morphological transformation, but when you start to look at it, it's here, in effect, a change in nature. As I entered the past, the Agency recently went through considerable changes to adapt it to modern administration. For years, government review has been a direct guide to simplify management and development institutions under better control and laws since 2008, allowing all management of these issues to become a streamlined, and the Agency was laid down for the present time. I think it's all too early to do this in this way, and also because the peace that has been breaking up for quite a while. There was quite an agreement on the entire law in 2008, and we were a little pleased to have reached it. That is why it is tragic and, in effect, more than tears begin to take place in this matter of so much overindulging. Opinion has also emphasized that action and monitoring are not at the same hand. So once again, you have to ask, " How could it be that one is going that way? ' Is this really a good board of directors? Are people in general satisfied with the constitutions of the government that the operation and monitoring inside the Ministry is being grafted into such a huge and important issue? It has also been observed that it is not as if the development community has been on the black list for Government Review, on the contrary, she has received considerable commendation for having her expenses completely within the framework of the budget. It's one of the few institutions that make it year after year. That is why the bill is incomprehensible, and I would like us to have a better explanation for it. It is minimal that people really tell us what is on their minds. Is it to collect funding from the Ministry or not to be interested in the seminary and not to think that it's a project we're supposed to be doing with no form of work? Or do they not consider this assignment to be something we should be doing, and as a result, do they see their beds grow up and get their money into the Ministry by allowing evolutionary cooperation to fade out? These are some questions I think we need to know. There's something else I'd like to come in a little bit better, and that's that I want the head of the Committee, huh. paritaprevir Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, answer me why can't you wait for the DA's report? There will be another assessment in the next year and it will be returned to us. Why don't we take advantage of the trip and do it a little bit well, try to do things well, and get some food on the outside? It often comes out well. Why can't we wait? It's totally incomprehensible to me. It is as they often say, the eye is obvious and all. Are they not ready to wait? There have been at least two people whom I value, both in the fields of development and administration, the Sigurbjörg Sigurgeirsdóttir and Þórir Guðmundsson, of course, as well as others, are concerned and have not come to the same conclusion. This does not make it easy for us when reputable members, both associated with the seminary and linked in the administrative field, fail to reach the same conclusion. So I would have thought that if they wanted to succeed, they would be delighted to welcome an equal food from FAC next year. There's not so much rush. Hopefully, an explanation for this rate will be followed and the reason why this evaluation is not to be delayed. I think an Icelandic government would do many good by being blown away. When it is done, we should rejoice and accept it, even listening even slightly to what is said. But it's not going to be here, it's going to continue running the case and running it in great opposition and inconsistencies within the council, which I'd like to mean that there's a group of paints and that government to the point of extreme neglect. Why are people creating disagreements and debates about developing cooperation? Do we not all agree that we should be powerful in the field of development? A respectable president. Finally, I want to say this. I'd like us to set this thing aside now, if we were to sit down with a minister, the Chairman of the Committee, and make another move to settle that. There are tremendous opposition to the matter within the council, and there are many of us who see a great deal of problems. There are others who are not necessarily putting their foot down very hard but who would like to wait and see what the FAC report tells us. That makes sense. There are various viewpoints in this room, and I think we should at least try and strike together to settle this and get some sort of impact on the case. It's been offered by reason of reason. paritaprevir The count of Jónasson's son and other forms of compromise... that the people will set aside the case and wait for the DOC report. I think it's wise. If I may say so, a respectable president, I feel overwhelmed not to accept such an account. It's weird not to do that. I know that when I was in charge during my last term, I would have gladly received advice from outside or at least a vision of what was being done. It is of great value, and we should not oppose it. At least we in the United States are not available to participate in such expeditions, just as we are not available to participate in the efforts to put down the development community organization and thereby provide a clear view of the development issues that have been in Iceland, that is a clear view, and we have made use of our resources when it comes to developing cooperation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u92	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir for a very good speech. What's striking about her conduct and what you feel is so right is to ask how it is possible to break up a more efficient peace that has existed in this institution and this field now for a long time or since the legislation on Iceland's Development Network was set in 2008. Why on earth are we going to break that peace? Hv. A senator agrees with the viewpoint, and I have previously adopted the viewpoint of others that we are waiting for a decision on the OECD committee, which is under the short - range name DiaC, a development team called OECD, which is making an assessment of one of our arrangements. We'll let the next year pass, get an assessment, and then take over the matter again. My main concern was to agree with this view. Senator. But now that I'm back, I'd like to direct one question to the question. A senator, who is largely speculationd and who hears her point of view. I said here that the reason why we are here is where we are now is a horse trade in the government home, that the forwarding party and the Independence Party are making a deal between them. I'll get it, you get it. The Independence Party wants a bill on public financial matters. The company, or the Minister of that company, would like to have this case. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agreed that we're witnessing horse purchases at the Council? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u93	A respectable president. I don't think that theory is stupid because we've heard two members of the Independence Party discuss this matter. One is the head of the committee, why. paritaprevir Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, and she has not come here to answer our questions or questions. Then we have a what? paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, who has specifically said in the public chair that he does not understand why the matter is coming on and why it is under pressure and has been described rather contrary to it. I can only imagine that there must be some kind of horse shop in the back. But then I'm going to say, to fight so hard to put down a developing cohesion agency, an institution that has been recognized internationally, received commendation from important people, such as Dena. A senator mentioned earlier, for good management of tasks with a particular authority distribution, which gives emissaries flexibility to work with the locals, etc., what development teamwork is supposed to do, not with any large external tasks that come into their community like pack solutions. To put so much emphasis on putting such an institution back in return, that's a factor, and I understand the fight for public finance, but this struggle I don't understand because it shows into some sort of thinking that I don't get around. How will humans justify this way of driving matters against developing cooperation? It is absolutely known that once development teamwork, so special, is introduced into the Ministry, it will slowly fade away, it will be far from it. Maybe that's what humans are doing. So that's the policy of the advance party, and the Independence Party is going to help them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u94	V.E.G. President. In fact, I fully understand the Independence Party's interest in driving contrary to the official financial bill. If I were so eager that I wanted to take the money and their payment into a similar course as that of big firms in the country, I would welcome such a bill and possibly fight for it with great ideals, except it's not my ideal. This is not a big company, the Icelandic state and our community, it's a community and it's not supposed to introduce the methodology of big companies there. But we are not discussing public financial matters. I'm simply saying that I'm putting it in context of potential horse purchases on this matter. As a matter of fact, I think it might be worse than this and I'll point it into a word. paritaprevir Insects of Össur's Skarphéðinsson, who believes that there is not only opposition within the Independence Party against the case but also among the candidates. He has presented evidence in this regard. What, then, remains? Then it says only after this is primarily a ideal and a debate for the present world. Secretary of State, to get the case through, perhaps a few of the senators of the parish, who are convinced themselves that it is for the good. In view of the fact that very serious comments have been made to the bill and particularly to a report that is said to be based on the wrong people and innuendo, I would like to ask them why. A member of Parliament: Is it not conclusive that we need to stop the discussion until the end of the discussion? A minister of state has come to the council and stood up for his own business, betraying what is considered to be myths and misinformed in his own bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u95	A respectable president. When the government's death committee, or its name, began, it was one of her tasks. paritaprevir In the beginning of that committee's work, Hauksdóttir Hauksdottir specifically declared that there would be cutting down to development cooperation. Men have spoken of it within the great party. Then she declared after the first session of the cuts to the 1 billion lawsuit that this was only the first step. We may be seeing people decide not to come directly to this by going directly to a very severe cut on their donations, but to let it go away first by taking the Agency into the Ministry and taking other ways to do this, since there could be a very high level of social barriers. That's why I think it also matters that when they read what's being done here, it's because it's another side of the same coin. The aim of cutting down evolutionary cooperation is to do so in ways other than to slowly take the money down and leave the Agency striped, but they intend to do it the other way. I don't understand why they don't say that then. What kind of politics is that? If they believe that it is right, they should come out and say it. I think there's a measure of cowardship in this whole matter, so that's what they say. A respectable president. I know why. A senator can't come up here and answer me because he's finished with his answers. Would he have thought, though, that it would be all right to take the road into the State Department when he was there? Not at all. - Hv. A senator shakes his head. - Because you don't take a profession you want to be powerful in their field of service. Nobody does, except the highest. Secretary of state. Then there's only one reason why people do it. It is because they intend to let the group of painters disappear but also plan to expand their budget of money. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u96	Mr. President. I thank the senator for his speech. I thought, in the light of the discussion, that this case was not shown any pleasure on the part of the government groups. There's no interest, no conviction. You ask yourself: " Why is the lack of a developing cohesion agency in the way that this bill presents itself? What has not been compatible, since this is a way to coordinate? The Senator spoke precisely about the State Accounting and the arrangement it pointed to, i.e. that would not be the same person who developed and carried out the policy. Because we were at a seminar earlier that included discussing long-term policy development, it is stated in the opinion of the administrative scientist, who did not seem acceptable to this bill, that the key to the development of Iceland's development partnerships is planned policy development which is the basis for finding ways to solve the increased donations of Iceland so that the efficiency and benefit of the contributions will be best assured. I agree because I think this is something that must have to be viewed. A buttonset has been won more by the development team than by the other, but the same cannot be said for the Ministry. Now we've got a lot of work to do under the Ministry. It has spoken of the United Nations School, pointing out the peacekeeper, but no special assessments have been made or has produced any results in either case. In view of the information we have about other projects in the Ministry, does the senator not believe that this is a weaker professional practice? Is it not true that government reexamination will take over the Ministry, or will the senator know about it? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u97	A respectable president. Maybe that's exactly what a government reexamination should do. It is quite remarkable, as mentioned in this case, that innuendos and other things are said under a rose in a paper with the bill. The same situation also took place in another issue, from the same minister when it was intended to retract the EU member talks. Then it was suggested that at the last council, men did not vote according to their convictions, etc. The argument is so weak that even under the pretext of being from the Ministry, it is being carried into the public square by very unconventional texts. I just don't believe that the Ministry's employees, the good people, had anything to do with this. It's just politics and nothing more. I have to say exactly as it is, a respectable president, that I hope that we will be heard, and we will stop this discussion and seriously try to see if we can't achieve some solidarity on the subject. Today there is not even a member of the board in the hall who is going to discuss this matter with us. If it's not a matter men are willing to fight for, which we're opposed to, I think it would be normal for them to try to see if they didn't have anything to do with each other. Otherwise, I hope men come up here and take away the veil and tell them it's part of reducing Iceland's development team, our participation in such projects. That's all I can see is gonna come out of this. I'm worried about the development team being the bill. Like what? A senator named them as a subject. It's a special field. As a result of developing cooperation, there is tremendous work and education, so it needs to be a very clear frame of mind. [[The president calls.]] They're pulling him out of here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u98	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. The nature of the matter, as she mentioned here, is a great opposition to the case. I agree with that. I don't understand the paradox not wanting to try to reconcile in the light of the parapolitic media we've achieved in the past few days. At the same time, they have caused no one to absorb wounds, such as nature protection. I'm saying it's worth a try. The reason I mentioned these two projects at the Ministry is because I'm worried that there will be over 1.5 billion in the Ministry, which we will have much less information about what will happen. I also think of those who are in the field and people in exotic surroundings who are involved in this context. The senator came in on the reflexes in his talk and other matters when people are there. You wonder where the voice of these people is. She's not here for the discussion, except maybe for us in the position of government. I think we're doing this to our dissidents here to show that we support that the arrangement will be comparable to what it's been. This has not been demonstrated - does not the senator agree? - what the economy will be for people in cooperation countries, who accept this service. I think the professional should hold this in the way it has been done. We are to continue to receive such measurable results because there is a lot of money involved and there is strength for the government and the government of every time the details are as detailed as they have been in the case of a Developmental Cooperative Agency. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u99	A respectable president. I want to live in a community where we can carry our heads high in developing cooperation. I want to live in a community where we make decisions to go out and support communities with weak infrastructures, and they don't have the strength of infrastructure that we've been able to build up here. Sadly, they are many for very many reasons, because of climate and natural reasons, as well as because of wars and disasters committed by these communities. It is our duty, in my opinion, to do so. It is to be done on professional grounds with the people, by listening primarily to them. I agree with what. A senator who fears that his voice could be placed on board if he intends to change the arrangement, which has just been praised, in the power of the distribution that is thought of to be carried out by emissaries from the development community, which then can and has a definite flexibility to change the course if necessary, and to work with the local people. I think that's exactly what we're supposed to look at, to support counseling and financial resources. I'm afraid it'll go and change, so it won't be as effective as it is right now. There are many stories of failures in evolution. Experience has been collected for decades. Those who work in this area have an enormous knowledge of what has been right and what has failed. That is why it is so important that we have a clear, professional faith regarding what we are doing when it comes to developing cooperation. [[The president calls.]] I'm really afraid what's going to happen to that adjustment.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u100	V.E.G. President. Many of the members of Congress have been presented today in comments made at the conference board and since the Senate hearings, that it seems unnatural to them that there is no wish either to interrupt the discussion or to the highest level. Secretary of state, please report to the meeting. I thank you for the present time. A president for promising us to present such indications to the presiding committee and then how to respond when a body of Congress makes wishes like this. I have raised the question that in the talks of many members of the council, the minister has been referred to as expressions of inquisitiveness and misinformedness. These are statements not only from a council hall but also in the opinions given to the council. It has now been added to the claim that these ideas have developed to reduce development. [[The president calls.]] Is there no reason for the minister to answer for this?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u101	Mr. President. I haven't been at this workplace for a long time, and I decided to follow up on the discussion here. I came to her completely open and expect to be involved with someone but only those who oppose this entry, but I have to admit I'm surprised at what's being done here. As I learn more, and as I hear more, I feel more sad about the fact that this is the case. In the days I've been here, I've seen good things and had to learn a lot and a lot, but this feels like right below all the caves. There's no answer. They're not talking about some institution of two people or some smartass, they're one of the institutions that we can be most proud of. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u102	President. I still miss most of it. Secretary of state. I'm supposed to talk next time, and I can't believe he can keep track of what I'm saying in this matter, which I still think is important, since he is now meeting with his party members in the district rather than being here at the council. It's just what's been happening here today, and it's so strange to turn this case into a corner as they have come, that people aren't here to answer, and that people don't look any more at peace. We have seen that in the last days, if we want to, we can reach a conclusion that humans accept. They don't even try this case. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u103	Mr. President. I reiterate what I said earlier today, and I find it very shocking to the top. There's no Minister at 2nd. Because this matter is so direct to him and to his Ministry. Not only does this focus on the council and the church treatment, but it does not make me feel that here in the hall is merely a president. Foreign Affairs, as good as she is. Also, I find the surprising way to address this matter, the way in which no one speaks of it except the government. They're what they were. Council members who gave their name under the opinion of the greater part of the State Department and encourage the approval of the bill in the discussion will not be apparent. We have to get the minister, and first we can get a proper discussion here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u104	Mr. President. I agree with them. Councilmen who have spoken up to this team. They've been calling for the highest power. Minister of state to enter the discussion and answer questions. I am confident that there would be a way to settle the matter if there were to be debated over the facts. I want to say, as other members of Congress do, that I also find it strange that men do not try to settle this matter. We've just come to terms with something far greater than what we're talking about. Councilmen here have shown that we can find solutions. It's strange, and you're very suspicious when you see how this case is directed straight into a ditch.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u105	A respectable president. Is there really no one here who would like to have a conversation with us? At the government council, we do not have many other tools to present our dissatisfaction with any form of compromise other than this platform. I would have thought that if they came here, they would try to tell us something about the urgency of this matter and why men would reject equal judgment on this institution that is now being put down and put it in an uncertain way. I must say, just as it is, I find it a huge disrespect for the Generals that here is a case where there is as much opposition as there is, and not one member of the board once makes a point to come here and describe why it's going to go through. It's so disrespectful of the Council that I don't have a single word. Then there is no understanding of why the council has become so small when even the views of those who are fighting for it are not heard. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u106	Mr. President. I don't like to let the next senator here who's supposed to speak in the evening despite the requests that have been made. I have to agree with what. paritaprevir For example, when a Árnadóttir named Thornana, she asks why here do not speak to members of the council who sign considered. Why don't they come out? This is where it sits. paritaprevir It's Sæmundsson's stone. Hv. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir was in the hall earlier. What convinces these people that they are the only right people despite the comments they have made? Haven't there been any doubt? I think we have a responsibility to protect that bad things don't go through the council. As it now looks, it is not good, and it is in opposition to what the State's Accounting has pointed out. There has been no comment on this case, which supports the fact that this is done. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u107	V.E.G. President. I have no doubt that anyone may now wonder if the person here is trying to keep the case silent. The answer is: Yes, I'm trying to keep it to myself, I'm trying to keep it from arguing that serious accusations have been made, that it will end without question on the part of those responsible for the alleged errors. That's what we're trying to do. And when should the Council's Government be understood, with all due respect for the current president, I'm talking about this on a broader basis, that we are completely serious about this, that, when serious charges arise before the council, and are now being discussed, we expect those responsible for it to come here and stand before us? That's what it's all about. That's why I'm pointing it to the highest level. President that this meeting will immediately be interrupted.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u108	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir The Ögmundur of Jónasson said that this was the case in the hearings of many senators, indicating that there was a misinformation in the paper with the bill. You're absolutely right. A senator but there isn't enough, but, as I informed here, it is in the reviews, such as the Allied Union of Iceland, that is exactly claimed after the reviewers had read the opinion of the Development Team. These two things seem to me that if it's the best, it's the only thing I can do. A president would understand our request to the highest degree. A minister would come to the meeting to explain this and to represent him. V.E.G. However, a minister does not have the courage and motivation to follow the case, even though this has raised many key questions that cannot be expected. The head of the State Department is responding.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u109	Mr. President. Just a few days ago, a very difficult issue that has to do with nature's protection was able to restore tripolitic peace. It was because of the highest. Minister and minister. Contract members of both the administrative and the smaller parts did a lot of work, where all members met their highest standards. As a result, I am convinced that Generalis's respect grew somewhat with that trade. Here, however, we have a case that is in an enormous amount of conflict and at the same time very strange, for only one member of the case will address the issue regarding it. It seems that most of the part is going to keep quiet but get the case through with the power of its share. I don't know what the fuck it is, but I want to wait to the top. President, that he will do all he can to communicate here, thus contributing to the dignity of the Generalis that we have been returning in the last days. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u110	A respectable president. I'm on the environment and transportation committee. There they could sit down in a language that was considerably greater than this and reach a conclusion. There was a bill to correct the law in 95 articles, i.e. The laws on nature protection. They could sit down and discuss that matter, crawled from it, found details they disagreed about, disagreed with, and then cooperated with each one to the conclusion. Why could the State Department not do so on this matter? It's totally incomprehensible to me, just completely incomprehensible. [[Up front.]] They had no interest in it. The case has been negotiated somewhere. Men don't even come down here and talk about it, they don't care. Yes, yes, let's all go together, the government, slowly on the road to putting down the Developmental Cohesion Agency and hence the seminary on developing cooperation. It's the road you're on. I just don't think it's a good place. I also feel like a lousy situation standing here and knowing that nobody cares about what you're saying, because they're just gonna do this, they're not listening to anybody. [[The president calls.]] Democracy is a very complex and unpleasant phenomenon. And it is obvious that we are here that members of the Sanhedrin are not able to endure this discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u111	Mr. President. I agree with the idea that this meeting has been interrupted. I want to pray to the highest. For example, the president of the United States has arranged for the matter of reconciliation to take place here. It looks like it's stuck and not at all. A minister or a minister. Councilmen who support the government come here to discuss this. I also think there's so much room to create. Ministers, like the highest. The secretary of the house may present a subject called the following, and she has talked about the need to come up on the program. V.E.G. Also, industrial and commercial ministers have not established their plans for the management and payment of the transport sector. I think there's a lot of cases going on. Ministers must be incinerating with us.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u112	Mr. President. I don't really understand why we can't stop and stop today. I can't figure out what it will do for me, even though there may be one more senator talking. There are no issues to the government. There has been more and more, so there is no room for tomorrow's schedule to discuss and really make no difference. It is much wiser to be stopped here, and I would like the matter to be taken aside, as here has been pointed out, and to try to make peace. I think there's a possibility that, in view of what's been traced here, it's possible. I think a foreign minister would be more important if he showed up in the Hall and discussed matters with us senators or that he agreed to adopt and discuss, although only the criticism that has been presented. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u113	President. Once again, it is emphasized that this matter comes directly from the minister. It's the Minister who suggests it, it's the Minister who's bringing a job into the Ministry for him to have, apparently, more in these matters than has been done so far. There are costs to bring directly the funds given by the Council to the Development Agency by some way back into the Ministry of State so that it can be used for other things. And here, the minister is not here to answer these questions -- well, these are almost charges, at least it's a very harsh criticism of the minister's work. [[The president calls.]] I find it unacceptable to continue a meeting here without the Minister coming to a game, as they sometimes say, to respond to the harsh criticism that exists on this matter, but not in all matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u114	Mr. President. Before long, I was talking about the institution that is discussed here, an institution that we can be proud of. However, it seems now to be laid down and taken up almost without a discussion in the Ministry. I have no arguments to say. Maybe it's normal because nobody comes in a pit of those who sign this opinion. I encourage the President to say good things for now. This matter must be discussed when a minister is present, he must go through it with us. This is a very strange thing to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u115	V.E.G. President. I am very long - suffering toward the president who now sits on the President's chair and conducts a council assembly. By 18 o'clock, by an hour and a half, I think he said that he would take the notes that were presented here in a way that he would do the highest. The Speaker of the Council, The Einar K. The Son of Guðfinnsson, informs us of the wishes of the senators. But since then there has not been a cough or a pause to react to our wishes. I'd like to ask the highest. The president whether it is really his intention to arrange for this meeting without us members of Congress to know if it's at the highest level. Ministers will come here to see us tomorrow or not. On the one hand, I ask for the highest. The president informs us whether he has been able to communicate with Einar K. The Son of Guðfinnsson, the highest. The general president of the United States, and whether any reactions have been made. It is important that we know this and decide whether or not. A president has properly driven us to have some kind of answers to our reasonable wishes. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-18-36.u116	V.E.G. President. There's two things in this case I think it's right to appear. First, I think it's unfair, in more detail, that humans should feel at the height. Secretary of State isn't here. After discussing this matter at the Assembly Hall, he answered some of the points that have been addressed to him. [[What? ...]] So I have to find that men come up here and suggest that he hasn't given so little of this discussion, because it's wrong. On the one hand, I would like to say, because the demand has been for my stand on this matter, that it has already come forward. It's just that people haven't been listening. I've already spoken up on this matter, and my attitude toward it is very clear. [[Up front.]] I strongly support the progress of the case and the approval of the bill, a firm supporter. [[Up front.]] There's been nothing that's ever done to make it work.
