ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u1	The president considers an agreement that may last longer than the Parliament allows for a discussion to be concluded on the scheduled issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u2	A respectable president. I have to stand up for this team for the news of this morning's morning paper that the P.R.R.'s former Commission of the Common Community and information agents of the Council of Joanna Sigurdótir, Einar Karl Haraldsson, has informed the European Commission of various information about the European Commission. The report also shows that Einar Karl's sources came from members of the Parliament at the International Parliament. If it is true that members and members of Parliaments who have pledged their honor to the Constitution will be undermined by the national interests of the nation, e.g. Most of her time's interests, it is important, more dignified President, that the immediate investigation of whether it is necessary to support members of the Allied Council is to undermine the nation's interests.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u3	To answer, Ministers of Education and Culture, Industrial and Business Ministers, Marine and Agriculture Ministers and Foreign Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u4	Mr. President. It may be here to pick up the past at a meeting, but we can discuss it later. I wanted to direct a question to the highest level. In view of a bill he has proposed the distribution of fishing warrants in macroil, marine and agricultural ministers. It's like the highest. The minister is aware of this bill being controversial because it is being promoted to the distribution of macrovota to six years, for a considerable period of time. As noted by the bill, if the law is unchanged, it will not only bind hands of the current government but of the next; and at the same time there will not be a vision of the management of fish, at the same time there will not be a vision to be carried on by a board of directors, but one of the priorities of the head of the constitutions to which it is currently being set up that the resources should be shared. Let's hope that they make a general presentation by the end of spring, the beginning of summer. At least I hope that if you agree with them, they can enter a constitution, at least They come to pay off their country, along with the 2016 Presidential election. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister who had planned to submit a future fishing programme, whether or not he thinks it is proper to wait with his bill for the distribution of macrovota, which is a huge change, a fundamental change in the system for this species of fish, until at least we're seeing the cards with the constitutions of resources in the community, and until we're seeing the gaps in the future fishing industry. I have to say, I don't think it's a good idea to make a decision here in time that will have the precedent for one species of fish, while those cards are not on the table. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u5	A respectable president. I'd like to begin by saying, and actually made it sooner from this speaker, the importance of having us put in the constitution of the regulations of the nation's property of the resources of the country. Under it, both have the highest. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. The minister of finance is removed from this platform. So I think it's important, and I agree with the senator on that. With regard to macroil involvement, it's also close. A senator that this is somewhat different from the fact that we are putting the mackerel into the standard share-making system as it already is. This is a temporary distribution, and an additional fee is set because this is a unique source. That is my opinion, and I base it on the opinion of an agent, who pointed out that the last government was as early as 2011 to share mackerel in accordance with the laws of the country or to place special laws. Here, the minister of the sea and the Ministry presents a case that has been measured and is discussed in the council for the setting of specific laws based on legitimate expectations. The last government, as a matter of course. A senator sat in as a minister, gave. These included some of them. would expect those who did human farming to be accepted as part of their share when it was due. At the end of the 2011 year, the Generals agent expressed his opinion that it was as late as possible to share a mackerel or, as he put it, to share mackerel under Icelandic law.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u6	Mr. President. I understand their viewpoints at the highest. Minister to wish to respond to the opinions of the U.S. Deputy Generalis in some way. But here we are making long - term laws, six years old, without a vision of the future control of fishing. And not only do we not have it, but we have in the state of government and the public in this country only seen that there is a direct controversy within the government on exactly what that vision should be. What I'm pointing out is that if we don't have a vision on the table for six years, for a pretty long time, which is an example for the system in general, it's very difficult when we don't have a vision of the table, when we don't have a rule-book on the table. I'm glad to hear it. A minister agrees with the importance of such a law and knows that he has spoken in a manner that he has done here many times ago. I am not convinced, however, that there will be reconciliation in the entire Assembly Hall on such a law. Is it not wise to wait on such a long - term decision until this vision is on the table? [[The president calls.]] One of the biggest issues we have in today's political affairs is how the resources are being handled, how the public should get their part in the money that the resources give us.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u7	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator that one of our biggest subjects is exactly how we handle our resources and what is the natural concern of the owner of the nation. I wonder, though, why people want to take one fish stock out of parentheses and say that it must be waited on, waiting to put it into a system that is accepted worldwide that is one of the most practical systems we have, and creating this powerful seabed. I believe that the six years set up in the bill presented here, based on the Treaty on how we use the resources of the resource, and the opinion of the General agent, are the minimum time to ensure the prosency that the industry needs in order to invest and continue to build up the national interests of the marine industry, the only article in Iceland that is a competitive and profitable approach to other sectores of the world. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u8	A respectable president. I'd like to continue with that matter for a second. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, spoke here. The fact that we in the Union and our representatives on a professional committee have emphasized that this case will be held in question until the constitution is concluded, i.e. the application of the resource directives of the Constitution. My first question to the highest. So a minister is: Why is there such a rush? This is in our hands, and it is more important for us to secure the nation's property of the resources in the constitution than to continue running this case in the way this is done. People in this country have burned up the injustices they have seen since the beginning of the greeting system and were assigned to legislatures, so - called gift - gratation, in a very controversial way, that is still controversial, and many doubt that it has passed over laws at that time. So what makes it the highest. Ministers already arrived? Then he intends to adopt the exact way people have run away in this country ever since the greeting system was set on, and give the resource, give the resources, you see, there's nothing else when the deadline is six years. That means here the government needs to be elected twice in a row to make some adjustments. Let's just watch the republic, then we'll see that if it had been done like this, there'd never have been any changes, and we'll see that this is going to be final. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Why is it not a posetive provision for the nation's partnership in the bill? It's a special bill, it's totally clear, and it shows that if there's any question about other laws, it's going to work again. And the other, why don't we just take this opportunity and try to answer the call for greater justice in the fishing way, and bring new methods other than the gift garden and put it all together... [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u9	A respectable president. It is a welcome opportunity to resolve the misunderstanding that the Senate has so far advanced during the last days on the set of values the bill has. The bill is a special law on the distribution of macroil, but the general legislation on the control of fishing is universal in all areas. This is how the bill applies to the shareability of macroil and the implementation of the share line, but it is clearly stated in the bill that other laws in the field of fishing management, such as the law of No. 116/2006, the management of fishing, as well as the law No. 151/1996, about fishing outside the jurisdiction of Iceland, the values for the control of the macroil population as we can have and the regulations of the bill go free. So it is clear that 1st par. the management of fishing continues. We're sharing the mackerel and putting it in a new legal environment, that's perfectly clear. The only thing they say, and what is said in general when special laws are passed, and I know that members of the Parliament know very well, is that when special laws are somewhat contrary to what they are dealing with, i.e. the concierge, the special law, and not the general law if there is any doubt about it. I don't think there's any doubt about it, but it's a general law. However, this is not the case. A senator who claims that the greeting system has some kind of gift-cup. When this was going to exceed the authority and ability of the institutions to survive the sustainable growth and too many ships, and everyone was on the head, no member of any body would want it to be accepted by the state and bought the warrants and had the arrangement in any other way. They said, "You take care of it in the fishing business." They did, had hunted for decades, and continued to do so. And now, when things are going well, there are some people coming up and saying, "Well, I want to now, I want to. [[The president calls.]] It's simply wrong to talk about the gift garden, but since we're talking about it, there's the rule with those who... we had to share the quality of the mackerel. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] A gift spider.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u10	A respectable president. In this country, there is an enormous amount of value in resources for individuals. V.E.G. Here a minister has a masked defense for the system we have lived in, where individuals have been created a position to profit from the nation's resources beyond what can be thought to be normal, and without the people who own this resource, to receive a righteous share of the money it can produce. That government is a protection of that system. Not only does she give this bill here, but she gives it here with this bill, where the beam slides down this system, and if anything is here, it's going further and more strengthening to support the system we've been preparing for. A respectable president. In the United States, we as well as the rest of us are the victims of this system of injustice. We want to make peace with this important industry, and it will not be done in the way the government suggests by this bill. This will only be done in a way that the nation will get a righteous share in the profit that results from the use of the resource. It will be only by creating some kind of market with these resources. I'm sorry that we haven't been able to do it in the last term to get it out of the then high - water minister, but we didn't feel it in the United States on what that was all about. However, as we know, the former ocean secretary was equally impressed with market solutions and with certain international organizations that need not be mentioned in this context. A respectable president. I think it's the highest. A minister needs to give us an answer to why he is not using this opportunity and tries to take steps to make peace rather than to continue his divisive course in this regard. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u11	A respectable president. During the last term, the Icelandic dinner system was particularly rewarded for its own self-sustaining use of fish stocks, the responsible fishing system could prove by government practices at any given time, and the economic benefits it would be. I don't know if they've accepted that recognition on behalf of Iceland with established international schools. It's not true what has been said to be taking steps to strengthen something. Here we are taking steps to make peace. This is not a mackerel intermittent code. It is a temporary intervention for only six years, which I consider to be the least that can be done in order to benefit from the industry and to create the greatest national value for all Icelanders. [[The president calls.]] It is normal that... which truly requires the additional fee set on the mackerel, it is still quite assured. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u12	A respectable president. It's been two years since I first arrived at the council and started asking the highest question. Industrial and commercial ministers to the position on the cable. As presidents and others know, there was already much work to be done from the last government during a survey of the willingness to sea cables from Iceland to Britain. Of course, Britain and other European countries need to replace their environmental energy sources with green energy, which we have in Iceland enough. The so-called controlled energy we're discussing in this context, the tops that come into our country grid, the energy that comes in at night, we don't use anything, and the value runs into the sand. It's the energy the British want to buy. To add the joy of this excellent business opportunity, the use of controlling energy, the price of the energy sold through a cable is expected to be up to seven times higher than the prices we receive from the big business, which is our largest energy buyer. A respectable president. In this context, we are discussing tens of billions more each year in the Kingdom Hall box. Tunga billion. And it is not as if there is a lack of opportunities to use the money that could come from the nation's common resource. There's no money in the box, no debt, no land hospitals, no pension commitments, everything we're going to do to our children is missing. In this context, the ball is at the highest. Minister. She has to negotiate with the British. I've kept asking her from this chair how it's going. One and a half years ago, a professional health committee addressed her recommendations. I have asked her questions here, and eight months later I again ask the same questions: How many meetings have a minister with British governments and where do negotiations with the British on the sea cables stand? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u13	Mr. President. Hv. A senator is a zealous amateur for the fine work that is presented here to ask of him. Where it is. In the opinion of a professional professional authority, I am both kindly and obliged to inform them. A member of the Parliament that, following the opinion of the employment committee, the Ministry has made a significant contribution to this matter by the guidance presented there. We've made up eight specific tasks that were carefully listed in the Committee opinion and are now being offered the largest project in the history of the cost- and benefit analysis due to the impact of the cable. The lowest offer was taken, and this work is started. With regard to communication with the British, I've had one meeting with Michael Fallon, then British Energy Minister, last March. I've been dealing with letters with the current minister recently, and the same was shown in my dealings with the local minister, helping the British government to introduce the underside of the British Regulation. We've accepted that counseling, and that communication is in good shape between my Ministry and the Ministry. No formal negotiation with the British has been requested, for I have said and still say that it is premature. The Senator himself had certain ideas in his inquiry about prices that humans have cast. I have felt that we first have to make up for what we want by getting all the information we have on this project. [[The president calls.]] This will be on either side of the annual report.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u14	A respectable president. We have to be clear about what we want. But I'm sure that's not a common understanding for me and the highest. Minister that we want the highest price for energy? Are we not sure that we are on the same page there? If not, we need to discuss this very closely. Why should a minister like that? not wanting to? Of course, if the energy market opens up in Iceland, politicians and Ministers do not control it with one hand and raise a fortune-to-do in terms of their own. There's been one meeting with the British former energy minister, and I know quite of that meeting, and I asked about him eight months ago, that's when I got exactly the same answers. Am I right to the highest? During this period, did a minister not again meet with the British government because of this enormous interest issue for the nation of Iceland? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u15	A respectable president. I just can't figure out what to do with it. Senator. This is a huge matter. What I think I do and what I do. A senator would agree that we want to do what is best for Icelandic interests. That's why we're digging into these issues from all its chaos, exactly in line with the opinion of the employment committee as it is. A senator taking his seat. For negotiations with the British, I repeat what I said before, and no matter how often. A senator says otherwise: We have a great deal to do with the British government. We receive information from them as they have invited us. There are not formal negotiations because there are some things, things that need to be done before we decide to negotiate. It's not like this. It's not like this. This is a case in which we need solid ground and it's not just about energy, some remaining energy, of course, it's gonna have to be ensured by an energy supply of something other than excess energy. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] These are the points, a respectable president, which we will consider and are doing, I assure you. That's what a senator's got to do with it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u16	Mr. President. We have a unique opportunity when it comes to the distribution of macrovota, to place a mackerel in the salad, which is essential for sustainability, that instead of going to a seabed company that's been catching him and rented and selling amongst its market prices, the government, as its representative, can rent the quotas to seafood companies at market prices. That's what the Americans want. That would be fair, but they ask: But what about the expectations of the companies investing in order to catch a mackerel? What about their legitimate expectations? Okay, you could meet them by asking them how much they've invested to catch a mackerel, they'd have to give up. If they can show that they have invested so and so much to hunt mackerel, they would have some temporary distribution, perhaps to six years, and that would not be extended to six years of age or on grounds they would have invested. Then they would have obtained rent from the state with a discount to restore their investments. This could be done. The door is wide open in this bill. The bill says that if the bill sticks to other fish control laws, this bill should be in charge. This can be done now. The justice for the saying, as it is now, is: No, it's been so long, people have bought and sold between themselves so we can't do anything now. But this is a new kind of fish being put in the quota right now. You can do this now. So I ask the highest. High - tech minister: Is it not possible to do this now?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u17	A respectable president. I'm not gonna let it say anything. A senator that during his last term when the last government was in power, when the mackerel was placed by hand - I am not doing it - to individual preparations that had not been given experience or fishing experience, in an effort to distribute the fishing throughout the country. [[I wasn't in the last government.]] [[Up front.]] Since then, we have followed through for five years, creating certain legitimate expectations. They're there. The promise was also made that those who started the fishing could expect to be viewed as sharers when it arrived if they were to direct the fishing toward farming. As I have previously said, it is clear in the opinion of the Generals' agent that it was obliged to share the mackerel at the latest in 2011, based on current legislation and the legitimate expectations that people can have, or to establish a special law. Hv. A senator then asks: Is there any other way we can collect increased income because the mackerel has not been shared before and is entering this system? The answer is: Yes, we can. The route here, temporarily assigning six to an additional fee for the nation to get a larger share of the cake, is chosen because of the way we would have chosen to go, i.e. I'm sorry to be able to tax on an ideal contract because there was a possibility that it would be greatly avoided. We are truly trying to keep this temporary in order to do this differently because of the new stock being involved, and to add an additional fee that is normal, because... [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u18	Mr. President. Is the minister to say, then, that because we've had the gift-weapon system and that this new species of donor evasive systems has been assigned to humans, with the high expectations that they should be given orders that nothing can be done? No, there must be something very strange about it. We're the lawgiver. Okay, people may have had legitimate expectations. In fact, it is very serious if you are able to invest in an investment to develop a competitive position in catching a new species of fish and getting premiums and reimbursed investments, i.e. that in developing a competitive position, they will only be reimbursed from the state. Then perhaps it would be possible to meet those who were allowed to fish and finance in connection with it, on the basis of investing, which would be temporary. It could be said that it would be fair, but the system they're trying to introduce now offers another, it would take six years to reveal this, which means that it is a political impossible to depose this system once it is established. [[The president calls.]] It's got mackerel, then they'll move up on the handle and ingest it slowly into the other system because it's really good. Look at the stability.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u19	A respectable president. We have some special senators, like whatnot. A senator, and a lot of talking about gift parvota. It is a false subject. This is a temporary distribution for six years, where fishing costs are taken, as well as additional fees for that part. [[For example, consider: What is the value of the account?]] Here is a reference to the book, "What are the values of the books? " Some have gone so far as to compare the value of local stock, such as cod, which has been here in the year hundreds, and a newly arrived stock, could grow, nobody knows, has not been negotiated in the international world, and some more, uncertain. Are people really comparing the value of the cod and mackerel resources in this situation? I just have to admit that I've asked some senators if they're ready to buy mafia at 10- or 11-fold his worth out of the ocean, and that's what everybody says no. Then they come on the platform and claim that these are the values and that they are based on the same basis.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u20	But then rent the state the market price.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u21	It's just wrong. [[The president calls.]] They're renting out of the state.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u22	A respectable president. This is where the dawns said it was. Economic and financial Ministers of the General Public Assembly: a majority of the speeches. It may be true, however, that this is the way it is when a decision is made on the matter of Congress, although it is also possible to wonder whether the challenge in democracy is more involved in making sure that the voices that most people hear are hearing, promote reconciliation and agreement in the community, and do not cross the smaller parts and the best - known ones. 25 February 2014 said the highest. Education and cultural minister of Illugi Gunnarsson: ◯ I plan to shorten my high school and will. It's the same kind of politics as the highest. The Secretary of Economics and Economics says, a politician who's about to plan, order and run, don't listen, and he's one of many. Let's stop for a moment in this request for a short break in high school. It has now been stated that it is in fact sent out by the Ministry of Education and Culture to reduce the school to three years, thereby reducing the choice and variety of high school levels, to reroute the system in the same centrally by decree, despite the fact that the greater part of its time, 2008, has been established in the high school process by allowing the president: ▪ The greater part of study for a student's test is not reduced by the bill. The number of units to a student test in the current legislation is not required and the majority of the components think that this is not needed in the bill. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Regardless of logic, what policy is behind force for shortness? What is the importance of consulting with the Minister of Education on big issues? If so, I am also talking about other issues, such as Education, Compatibility of Technology School, and the Theocratic Ministry School in Hafnarfjörður, and other issues, as high as possible. A minister has approached in this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u23	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. First, I would like to say that when a collective contract was made with a high school teacher's salary significantly increased, I had declared that the premium for such elevations would include system changes in the high school system. It was supposed to have disappeared from a four - year system and entered a three - year system. These collective agreements made changes that made such changes easier for the high school system, including by the length of the school year and the removal of tests during the course of teaching. The direction I've been working for has been ahead of me for a long time. In fact, it is no different from the standards or emphasis expressed by BHM, in the educational policy of the organizations, which are about to shorten the study period to the studio. That's an important thing for educated people in the country. In terms of choice and diversity, there are already three - year - old schools, e.g. The Women's School and the Grinch School. Both offer three years of study but are very different, just as the school in Mosfellsville is different from those two schools, just as the school upstairs in the city is different from those schools. All of this, though, is a three - year - old school. Of course, there will continue to be both choice and diversity in the Icelandic high school system, just as it is in all other countries based on such a learning system. It is not that the only country that offers diversity is in Iceland because there is a four - year system. Remember, though, that the present system has achieved that Iceland and I sit at the bottom of the bottom when it comes to education and elimination. [[The president calls.]] That's a reason to change the current system.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u24	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. In itself, everyone must be confronted with an increase in their uniqueness in the system by disappearing from the possibility of offering a four - year course for a student's study. As a result, individuality is being increased in the system and selection is reduced. Convincing another is a way out. So I ask: What is it that a minister is afraid of allowing the University of Reykjavík to stick to a four - year study for the student's study? The University of Reykjavík has repeatedly called for a convincing way of receiving an exception from the Minister's order for abbreviated. I ask if a minister is available to do that in the name of diversity, selection, and flexibility, which I thought was music to the highest ears. Minister, to meet the wishes of the University of Education in Reykjavík.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u25	A respectable president. First, I want to say that with a three - year system taken out of a four - year system, it's not working that everyone should finish in three years and that there is no other possibility, as in a four - year system, there is a possibility for students to stay in school longer than it takes four years. It will not change, so that flexibility continues. In the case of high school in Reykjavík, it is clear that we cannot put our high school system out of one school. I'm not sure, too, that the University of Reykjavík would like to be the only one with a four - year study, i.e. I'm not quite sure that it is, since the ideas I've heard from that school do not turn from them. They have come to more attention when it comes to taking a child directly from the 10th grade to school. The school would be in a special position if other schools that we pursue as students would offer three years of study to complete the school course, and then, when they are in their 19 years of age, they will be able to attend a university, but those who come out of the University of high school in Reykjavík will have to arrive a year later. [[The president calls.]] I'm not sure it would be good for high school in Reykjavík.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u26	Mr. President. In the beginning, I want to thank you for this opportunity to begin a special discussion at the highest level. The Minister of the Minister of Ministers on how she feels about the improvement of communications and how we can increase the availability of everyone to the Internet through modern, reliable connections and how we can equal the opportunity to use and communicate electronically, regardless of local territory. I would like to make it clear at the beginning of the discussion that in general the status of communications in this country is quite good. The spread of communication is very good. In our own country, where we are a small nation, mountains, and valleys, this does not necessarily mean that there is a simple solution. The use of the Internet is public and good among the people, and our lives are very much alive today. Today, most of us are hardly able to do so, and the vast majority of us have taken advantage of it, and we are among the best nations in that regard. No one doubts the value of good and secure communication for our daily lives. Strong network connections, need for them and their importance are therefore a major issue of the security of communications, from the community, from the management of enterprises and households. The spread of good network connections, therefore, is one of the main providers on farm-based decision and the crucial factor for development. Good networks are equally important and competitive to areas, and housing may, along with other basic factors, measure the status of communication. It is our role as politicians to set our course and provide support, to be at the same time encouraging to fight as we make a demand and a convention of the future. In general, the official path to the free competitive communication is not expected. It is very difficult for state and rural society to consider the issues of the telecommunications market, and we are bound there on a large scale of regulations and laws. The consumers must ensure specific rights and governments are also responsible for implementing the market. In accordance with the current telecommunication plan, former commander. The Minister of Ministers, Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, a full - time service group, and a program on the community was to offer suggestions for communication reform. The group was appointed representatives of the European Union, the Association of Professional Affairs, the Ministry of Social Affairs, and the Government, and the chairman of the group, represented the Minister of Internal Affairs. The group has now reported a statement by the Minister of the Interior. Our suggestions can basically be divided into two major factors. On the one hand, proposals for changing the telecommunications markets and suggestions set out in the building of communicators are aimed at providing real, high - speed, high - speed, and high - speed communications opportunities for all homes and businesses. Mr. President. If I allow myself to be traced to the main proposals of our group, it may be said that our first main proposal is to define a broad or communications network with at least 100 megabytes the rate of connecting as basic services available to all the people of the country, regardless of their location. This is a very big decision and, in fact, a fundamental decision on how we as a nation can prepare us for grand progress in the building of communication. In our second suggestion, we want it as a global service goal for a speed of at least 100 megabytes to be available in 99.9% of the population in 2020. We suggest the induction of regulations and the changes in the laws involved in the implementation of a service initiative, but in these cases there are enormous efforts both to reduce the costs of fiber optics and to achieve sooner effective results. We have also evaluated and defined national initiative projects for building fiber - optic networks in areas where there is a market failure. We're saying national campaigns because once we have set the goals I've set for them, the campaign involves all the societies in the country except those that have already gone into fiber optics. So I want this to be said and that the development of this report represents the highest level. Interior minister of the following questions: In view of this report, what will be the continuation of the minister's work? How does a minister evaluate the situation and the need for changes in order? How do Ministers intend to take the next step? Has a minister opened up a discussion with the European Union? [[The president calls.]] The proposals of the group are made to a very large part of this national initiative. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u27	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for bringing this matter to his attention, of course, is extremely exciting and important to the country as a whole. To me, a secure network of relationships with the outside world is one of the key elements for true freedom to live and build up a variety of occupations. The task of the service group of people who suffered. In 2014, a member of the U.S. government minister Hanna Kristjánsdóttir Kristjánnsdóttir arranged for communication services and the spread of high - speed networks was providing suggestions for improvement. A senator made it a subject. This work is on the basis of government policy to promote national communication systems for the benefit of industry and citizens in this country. Government plans are ambitious and exciting ends, as I say, one of the biggest jobs and settlements. There is great support, and the next step will be taken to implement it. Iceland, however, has an excellent level of communication in comparison with other countries. According to the World Economic Council reports, the competitiveness of Iceland in many ways is good. This position is based on the activity of a communications market and also on the intervention of governments in which a communication plan has been required. You can always do better than that. One basic premise of communication is that communication is a market service offered by companies in competition with one another. A communication plan will take into account the role of governments in providing clear guidelines for private initiatives and at the same time that the duties of consumer companies are clear. Building communication is mainly the market's task and is subject to telecommunications laws, competitive laws, and other corporate legislation. Last year alone, funding markets at the telecommunications market for less than 8 billion dollars. Which is much bigger than the previous years. The investment is primarily in the interests of enterprises and the general public in market areas, which include more than 96% of the enterprises and the public, which have a general good service as a result. However, there are insufficient market structure requirements. There is a need for the access of public members to ensure good and strong communication for the proportion of people living in these market failures. For example, the resources given by government agencies against this problem are financial contributions to established government rules and possible legislation. The main barriers here to development of high-speed network connections on market terms are geographic conditions and rural areas, but high-speed networks are much less efficient for rural areas than urban areas. On the other hand, the need for the Internet to be just as rich if not richer in these areas to break up isolation and secure communication is not overlooked. There is no need to list here the importance of all the people having strong and reliable Internet connections. A good access to the Internet is an important requirement for building and working. An ever greater supply of public service on the Internet, education, information, and all kinds of entertainment makes it essential to today's society. Also, the Internet is the basis for a business to be marketed and to offer goods and services for sale regardless of location. There's more to this development now at the Ministry. It's not that many weeks since the Ministry was delivered. There are various changes in law and order, as well as three possible ways to get the State into the framework of communication in market failure areas. These three routes all assume considerable but varying financial contributions and the State's responsibility for the building of communications infrastructure. The majority recommended a route two that assumes that the State is responsible for the building of communications wood by coming and cooperating with rural areas. It is suggested that the government's contribution be 900 million. K. For five years. The output of user will be 250 grand for every network connection that may be able to have the strength from a local society that will take the part of the user fee. We have in the Ministry met with the European Union to discuss the subject of the report and received a very positive response from it. We have also met with representatives of the telecommunications companies and have heard their viewpoints and are generally excited about the project. It is then our job at the Ministry to promote these ambitious goals. If corpses show up, we'll see the signal in the telecommunications program that I plan to put before the council in the fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u28	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson for bringing up this important matter and thanking the minister's answers as far as they can. Of course, they need to see the communication program that follows these suggestions. Although we are faced with ongoing problems, we are doing well in many ways. There are, however, certain areas of the country outside the service we would like to have around the country. This is originally the case when the telephone was sold, forgotten, or refused, and could not be kept out of the stock market and made sure that the distribution system would be in the country of the national community. Then the field service would compete with that net. At that time, a market area was set up and then established a communication fund to make up for areas where the market would not be able to handle the ministry. As a result, the problem became the most common, since it had been defined as a market area, and it was beyond human control. However, those under the telecommunication fund had been well prepared. That's why it's so important that we take care of it now and don't give it all up to the market like we do. Minister did here, rather than try to ensure that which is the main objective, is that there will be all-time services regarding national network services. In the fall council, the United States proposed a synopsis proposal for emergency action in rural areas. It is a challenge to the Minister of the Interior to provide a timed and costly design for the construction of high - speed connections and the ring connection of cables across the country. Of course, we support all the efforts presented here to ensure equality between areas and settlements in this country and to ensure that everyone always has access to high - speed network connections. This is of utmost importance to our country's homes, to farm conditions, and to our professional life across the country, and therefore to the highest degree. Minister to act on the rest.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u29	Mr. President. The build-up of high-speed connections across the country cannot be solely market-based. That's just how it is, and that's why the State needs to get handsome into a communications fund to make things right. It's a lot of community and employment issues, as we have seen here. This is about education, health, business, and so many other and many young people around the country are saying when we senators come abroad that this is one of the basics to make their plans to have a home in the country. We must not take our feet in the important community. I, along with other members of the council, suggested a resolution at the end of the last council to speed up communication in rural areas and that it would be over in the next four years. Now, the service group mentioned here has made proposals, and I think it is very important that it be seen in the maximum communication program. In the fall of this year, a minister proposes that a handsome person be addressed in this matter. I'm not too optimistic about it. The four - year budget discussed here during the days does not provide much money for transport, communications, or other structure. It's up to this government and it's not enough to talk about these matters if there's no meaning. Hv. paritaprevir In a fine article, Haraldur the son of Benediktsson said by permission of the president: There is a force for action in the policy of the board of governments in this great progress, which has to do with many factors. It is hoped that his words will bring them into the budget and communication program at the top. Minister. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u30	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson for speaking on this important matter, as well as on the cooperation of a responsible group. What a joy it was to work with what was bad! A senator's thrilling task, and although it took about a year to give up the work assigned to us, this report gives evidence that there is much work to do. I would also like to thank some officials who did an unselfish work, and that others who were born in years, I would especially like to mention the management of the telecommunications fund, Otto Winther, Sigurbergur Björnsson of Internal Affairs, Hrafnkell V. Gíslason of the Post and Communications Office, to free the councilmen involved. My work with the officials gives me a fresh view of the government system, which is often controversial. This ambitious report shows how to activate the knowledge and human resources available in the system if the objective and will of the government are clear, as it has been in this government, into the work of this working group. That almost every town in the country has a rough cost plan beyond our expectations at the beginning of the trip, and not only that, but a realistic proposal to complete that project in 2020, in cooperation with the rural communities in the country. It is especially satisfying to know how the local government responds to the suggestions, even if the local community might have some expense and effort. Everyone realizes that such high goals will only be achieved by a concerted effort in the population, rural areas, and the state. No one doubts how important it is to establish a stronger high - speed network in the whole country if we are to maintain our country. I hope that there will be solidarity in this hall to establish priorities so that the weakest settlements will begin. It is especially satisfying to hear that a minister is positive and has always been. This is true not only of the current minister of the state of state but also of the former Minister of Ministers of Internal Affairs but also of the following procedure, as it has been mentioned here in a communication program and bringing this into the council in the fall. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u31	A respectable president. Of course, the Internet is no more than a bulge, but as such, it has become quite persistent and has nothing to do with it. There is no political debate over the goal described by the news editors today. This has been the issue of politics for more than two decades, and our inability to build up areas where there has been a market failure is an example of how order sometimes can be a problem. We need to live in a system that enables us to secure the modern transportation network so that 100 megaby 2020 will feel like a high and good goal that I support. Of course, politics should get together on this project. Unfortunately, the unscrupulous event on the Environment and Transport Committee yesterday suggested that Porta propose equal access to the Internet, a converged convergence that is a common case, was included in the collection of most of the objects, an incredible and unprecedented operation that was not supported by any other reason than the fact that the work was being done in another area. I would have thought that in this very area where a broad political solidarity, where a broad political solidarity is important, people should rejoice when others bring ideas that are in common with those who are being worked on, especially if it is obvious that it does not involve financial contributions and is more to support the project. Piranus has been identified as a political party that takes a special interest in this sect and should rather be something we in the politics embrace and celebrate. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u32	Mr. President. I apologize for taking my computer into the chair. It may be a bit of a fracture, but my iPad got tied up, so I just have to do it this way. The paper's somewhere else. Hv. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson set out with a very fancy job, a minister, and the senator. This report is well and professionally prepared, and it is excellent to see these elevated targets for this access to these infrastructures that there are 100 megaities of minimum available services across the country, i.e. that 99.9% of the population has access to 2020. It will be a little faster then, but there are still 100 megabytes per second rather good. Even it'll be fine in five years. The infrastructures naturally mean that people have access to this rapid network, but what has been happening in the United States and Europe is a major legal battle, i.e. to ensure that the telecommunications companies are unable to treat, direct, and entertain competitive positions, including innovation companies, by saying, "No, you have to pay a lot of extra money here. Imagine someone running a hotel and having to pay Extra for a certain pressure on the hot water, or the guests would just have a bad shower. That is what we are facing. This is what the struggle has been about in the world. Europe is getting a good grip on this, and Obama is now off with ◯Net Neutrality, which it is called subically, a dull word but means that a communications company is not allowed to fuck us. What Obama started was to ensure that telecommunications companies could not do that. This is what is being done all over the world. One thing is important, to make sure that the infrastructure is there, this is a great, good input and a good pressure in that direction, but it also ensures the legal situation, that the telecommunications companies cannot be segregated in this... [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's what the council concluded and only waits for Höskuldur to help with this... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u33	V.E.G. President. This discussion shows how important it might be to appoint groups in a different way, although I would not minimize the work done there and the results it presented. There, the government chooses to appoint its chairman as a member of Congress from the Independence Party and one member of the forward movement, then no more. Then there are suggestions from the United States, called Piratars and others with a lot of involvement in parking and left greens. They now come to the case when the report is available. This does not contain any criticism of the report, as I said, but this is a strong criticism of the practice where 50% of the people are left behind when discussing and preparing for Congress. I'm just saying that's what people have in mind. I'm sorry, but it's done so much more than that. It is intriguing to compare this with what was done on the average house - to - house expenses. It was the chairman of the Independence Party, who was in a position of government in the past, and his tactics were completely different. What I wanted to add to the discussion was that very many of my rural communities and some of them are standing so that they are confident that they will take prompt action to improve the network and the services in the region. I'd like to hear from both of them. The apocalyptic, Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, and as supreme. Minister on how these rural communities will be treated. This is not to be expected to introduce the case into a communication program, the delay in the progress, the correcting action in these areas, because people fear that they will be out of the way in terms of financing. I'd like to hear only the viewpoint on this subject because it's extremely important that all of this project be accelerated, I agree with what was presented in the discussion, that would be to turn first to the rural communities where the situation is the worst. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u34	A respectable president. First, I would like to thank the advocate of this discussion and the minister for her contribution. As we have seen, this is an extremely good example of a subject in which cross - study is fundamentally fundamental. A policy must not be such that it cannot tolerate elections and changes to the government or to more parts, etc. I really just wish for the highest. The minister expressed himself in his final approach to the discussion. It is not exemplary for us to be discussing a report presented by the greater part in some sense and we are discussing a proposal for a hearing made by a VG or Pirata proposal, which was actually rejected by an environmental and transport committee yesterday. It's just such a big deal that we're actually talking about the standard of living in the country and the possibility of staying in it. It is also about the fact that the country is accessible, exciting, choice beyond the capital area, that it is an exciting choice for individuals, for people and businesses, for management and starters, for innovations, etc., that these are accessible to the infrastructure and competitive legal environments as Piratars have emphasized the issues of legal rights. Since the piranha has specialized in this category, should we not take advantage of it transnational, throughout the council, and enjoy it when certain members of Congress focus more on a matter than on others when it is not a political issue? Is that not the course of wisdom? I'm waiting for the highest. Minister to Commentera on how this matter can be handled in a way that allows us to continue to take it parapoliticly in agreement with all classes for the benefit of Icelandic society across classes. [[The president calls.]] It's just that it's not responsible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u35	A respectable president. I am particularly happy to receive this discussion here today, already discussing the report of a service group at the highest level. The Minister of Ministers for National Expansion of Communications has only been able to grow. The work of the group and its report will give us success in policy development, which has to be followed by decisions, so it was good to hear at the top. A minister has begun working on the suggestions, and I encourage the success of the program. There are three main issues involved in this country following the report, that is the importance of clarifying the communication and development of the state and rural teams on the project ahead, that is a policy on the possession of the public network, the tour guide, because already the ownership is very complex, and that is a change in government policy. It's complicated. We already have a possession where the photogatherer is owned by rural communities, where the light guide is the partner of rural society and telecommunications companies, and since the communications companies own the opticator even though rural communities contributed funds to the project. It's very important to set a course there, and I want the minister's vision to see it. The court case mentioned by other members of Congress is mentioned in the discussion on where users come to stand. I also want to direct the Minister's question about when we may expect to be introduced by the European Commission Directive No. 2014/61/EC on the reduction in high-speed network costs, which may increase the ability to contact the operator. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u36	A respectable president. It was a bit informative and important experience to go to a meeting of local government officials during the last election week up in the dress, which is just right by the city line, a great country happiness there. In other words, a poor Internet relationship says that people are not really able to maintain a job that requires some transfer of data. I heard an example of a man who was trying to do monographing work at the architecture and he was, in effect, unable to find it in a dress because it could not be downloaded from large PDF drawings without starting early in the morning and expecting them in the afternoon. It's just up in the dress, and, of course, it's unacceptable. I think what we have to figure out, and I think everybody's beginning to realize it and that there's a total agreement about it, that a good access to the Internet is just as important as having roads, electricity and water. This has become one of the basic needs of modern society in the 21st century. For example, I have heard excellent stories about Australia, a streetland that has taken it very seriously to build up these communications. Me and the Icelanders have a great history of building wood like a hot-house. I urge all of us, encourage the Minister to go into building on Internet access, telecommunications, with the same determination that has been often in other structures in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] There is a concern here that there is really no increase in money in public investments. It's a little worried that you're out of control.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u37	Mr. President. Pirata's resolution proposal has been a bit grounded in the Environment and Transport Committee, our second priority in this council, it went to the Committee of September 24, and it's been there, visitors are done, they've decided that committees are ready, and we must now find some solution to which we can complete it because these proposals here, the proposals that the candidates have made, and this report we've been discussing, to strengthen the infrastructure. That's basic. We will not guarantee a competitive position on the market unless the court is secure together. It's a 'Net Neurality', sir. Obama has cut the knot, as I have mentioned before, and is starting to solve the situation in the United States. In Europe, this matter is being solved. We need to make sure of this in Iceland, too. If we're going to ensure a competitive status of innovation companies using information technology and the Internet, we have to ensure this too. The only thing the piranha are doing is supporting the work already started in the board. It's a review of our language pirata from the Post and Communication Department - I'm praying to the highest degree. Minister of the Interior to hear it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u38	I'm listening.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u39	Yeah. Thank you. The final statement says, by permission of the president: The contents of the user's Intemet are constantly focused on more and more. According to the unplanned European rule of communications since 2009, access to the Internet is now classified as part of the EU minimum human rights. It is important to ensure that all people of the country have such rights and that there will be a rules code on whether and in other ways markets can affect how the city uses Internet connections. - This is key. Because the Agency feels that it is important for the Agency to consider the problem of noncommunications with the above mentioned issues. I believe we can find a solution for... the Chairman of the Committee, Höskuldur Thorhall's son, guarantees it. [[The president calls.]] This will strengthen us for all the work the government has been doing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u40	Mr. President. I thank you very much for the suggestions in these discussions, but let me deal with some of the factors that have been presented. I'd like to say only about the policy and specialization of political parties that an independent party can become specialized in the marine future if there is a wish for a change of action, but I'm not minimizing the views that came out by saying this. For word's sake. But I would like to say that it is our main suggestion to define this high - speed connection, a broad link, as a basic service. It contains rights for consumers, citizens. It is a fundamental matter, and we can say that we are in a situation similar to Obama. A senator describes it. This is no special assignment for Iceland. The countries we usually compare with and live in a similar communication environment are dealing with exactly the same things, how they build communication wood with social strength. You see, social or policy activities are very important because policy makers also have great opportunities to work together with other projects. Let me give you one example. Not long ago, the offer was made by a single form of a so-called ring connection, a fibre optic connection, on the West, and is combined with the implementation of Energy Vestjörður, which means that the proposal for this project is only 33% of the original cost programme. Our policy is important, and the synergy of other initiatives is of enormous importance. This is precisely why this government and government have already built up communications through the budget of this year's budget, providing considerable additional funds to support a linking project. As a result of the questions asked by Guðbjartur Hannesson, the General Assembly for the spring 2014 community concludes that first they should be seen in the emphasis of the resolution on communication infrastructure and development of communications in these weaker areas. The service group did not have a specific policy, but at the end of the work, they have gathered a number of opinions. [[The president calls.]] First of all, I want to thank you for this discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u41	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion. Of course, it is not surprising that people agree that there is an urgent need to succeed in the field of communication. I've been thinking for a long time that this is one of the most important freedoms we are facing as residents of this country, to be able to determine for ourselves where we live. You're right here, we're not just talking about the settlements away from the capital area, there's a market breakdown in our area too. I think we all agree on this, and now all we have to do is look for a way to go. It's on my custody, at least for now, working out the suggestions given, and then they will see their place in the council. I agree with it. paritaprevir In his final speech, Haraldur the son of Benediktsson said that when he stole the word from me, I was going to talk about an additive effect on the service. It's very important. We need to take initiatives in many parts of the country, and it is naturally impossible to dig ditches side by side and increase spectacular costs when much harmony can be achieved and to use them to dump communications cables at the same time. We need to look at these systems in general. We need to take a look at the roads, the electricity, the communication, it's all become a part of a basic service. There's no one talking about this being a luxury anymore. The mission now is to keep it going. I know everyone is impatient, and people have been impatient for a long time. Of course it's all about funding. The suggestion here is that the Kingdom is a handsome figure, and that is the task that lies ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u42	A respectable president. The agreement with this bill enables Iceland to validate the contract for cluster bombs made in Dublin on May 30, 2008, opening up for signing in Oslo, December 3, of that year. Cluster bombs are a type of bomb that opens and releases dozens or hundreds of smaller bombs that spread over large areas, even as the size of several soccer fields, and explodes when they land. All people in that area are at risk of serious injury or adultery. Thus, these bombs are inaccessible and inhumane, and the smaller bombs often do not function as they are supposed to, so that many of them land without bursting and lying there, can create continued risk in the area long after a conflict has ended. Much of the victims are children and women who are injured in their daily lives during times of peace. Thousands of people have been injured over the years and continue to do so. The Cluster Explosion Convention is designed to counteract this disaster, which forbids the use, production, processing, supply collection, maintenance and transport of cluster bombs, as well as encouragement or assistance in such measures. The contract was a major stage in humanitarian matters and supported Iceland from the beginning. The treaty is called the Oslo process, with the Norwegian taking up this matter and hosting a conference on the work of the Convention after its negotiations had taken to shore in a general case of disarmament at the United Nations in 2006. The first convention was held in February 2007 in Oslo, and the contract opened for signing in December 2008, an amazing short period of time for a international contract. At first, these weapons were used and still used by many armed powers, but in the end they received extensive support, especially among developing countries, where these weapons have been particularly severe. A free group of partners participated in the meetings and helped very much with the contract, especially the contribution of the Red Cross and other organizations. There are no cluster bombs produced in Iceland, and there are no such bombs in this country. Iceland, however, has tried to contribute in this area, including ... withthecleaning of areas contaminated with the bombs. With this bill, the government wants to support this important humanitarian material and resist the continued use of this kind of bomb. Already 108 countries have signed the contract and 91 countries have validated it, including Denmark, Norway, Sweden But I have hoped that a broad agreement could succeed in its payment during this council so that Iceland can validate the contract before its first revision convention held in Croatia in September. As such, I suggest, a respectable president, that the bill will be followed by this discussion referred to 2nd. ... andwhat. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u43	A respectable president. The Constitution of the Government for the current 144th legislation is announced that there will be four prime returns to the conversion of authors, No. 73/1972, with subsequent changes i.e. bill for authors' private rights, contract agreements, etc., secondly the bill on the prolongation of the time of audiographs, thirdly the bill on the implementation of the EEA Directive on the authorised use of orphans and fourthly the bill on private use which includes a review of the stress of the manifest tax, according to Article 11. Authorized. Three of the prime products have already arrived at the General Assembly, and I will recommend them here. The latter bill has been for financial and economic costs and will not be submitted to the General until its results have been reached. As a review for the World Congress it is noted that discussions of the need for a review of authorial law due to technological and social changes have been under discussion at the General Assembly since 1991. On October 29, 2009, the overall review of the modern author's law began as my predecessor in office began. The general council member of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, introduced a so - called guide for a review of authorial law, which was as follows: 1st Dolphins need to be clear and easy to understand. 2. Emphasis is placed on a legal harmony with other Norwegian authors. 3. In view of its cultural and economic significance, respect for the Author's rights has to be increased. 4. The rights of the court must be efficient and have a preemptive value. 5. users should be supported by a legal advantage over illegal uses. 6th Dolphins should promote a balance between rights and users. 7. The instructions and training of the authors should be stressed for the competent authorities as well as for the users. 8. Emphasis is placed on the importance of universal cooperation in the sector of authors. The bill I first recommend, the 702th Conference, includes the phases of the overall authorhood review. The purpose of the bill is twofold. On the one hand, it is proposed to provide chapter I of the author's law on the rights of authors and authors. in accordance with the development of author-shaped countries, particularly with respect to the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2001/29/EC of 22 May 2001, on the coordination of certain aspects of the author's pregnancy and related rights in the information community. However, the purpose of a review of the law is to legalize the changing arrangement of contract breaks. The terms of an agreement refer to the implementation of activities protected by the author's rights that have made a deal with the author-sized organisation for the use of member partners/companys, e.g. with photocopies, it is also permitted to use authors outside the organization, since the work is the same type of work as the contract does and otherwise use under the terms of the agreement. This arrangement facilitates the use of jobs for rightholders and users in situations where there are a lot of work to be used. For example, there is a photocopy for the teaching or transport of music on the radio. So I'm going to go to the individual branches of the bill. In 1st. is suggested to replace the wording with the term copies and also to be used by the phrase "official" to make works available to the expression "instead of the wording" in contrast with "gr. " The bill. Code two. The bill has to do with the definition of the display and version of the jobs. This article explains the definition of when work is legally published and what is considered a version of work. These definitions include terms in II. the chapter of the law on restrictions based either on legal published material or published work. In the 3rd. The bill is suggested to verses 3 and 4. of 6. valid laws dealing with databases fall away to prevent the misunderstanding that databases always fall into the definition of museum works. Change doesn't affect the law on databases. Section 4. The bill has to do with the change in term use due to the interaction of design protection and author protection. The change confirms that things that are protected under design law, No. 46/2001, can be protected at the same time by authors. The bill is suggested to legalize four new protocols. It is then suggested that the terms of a contract license be adopted for the access rights to use by users on the basis of a contract agreement. In the 5th. is new. It is suggested that public archives and libraries be given permission to digital copies of their collection and to make such copies available to the public, e.g. on the world web, to meet the terms of a contract agreement. In the 9th. is new. It suggests that government agencies can negotiate permission to produce copies of broadcasts and television programs for the use of blind, visually impaired, and deaf. 12th degree. is also new. It suggests that a radio station can negotiate a permit for remake of works from its museum. The purpose of the directive is to facilitate the implementation of radio stations to the state of the state when access is granted to previously distributed materials from their collection, e.g. By order, by means of the Internet or by reimbursement. From a cultural point of view, I consider it important to know that both the state radio and special radio stations can be reused by older institutions. It is based on the fact that the warrant includes works sent outside of this bill's translation, i.e. July 1, 2015, considered to be their own production. 2 mg. 14th par. is new. It recommends that general authorization be agreed on for the use of tasks in designated, well-defined cases. The reason for suggesting such a general agreement is that by means of the network and the new modalities it offers, it is clear that more and more cases may be involved as there is a simple way to negotiate widespread use, e.g. Within collections due to the preservation and decoupling of the culture, without the need to be legalized. The bill suggests a change in the format and wording of the current protocol and, in some cases, an dilation of its set of values. If the bill is legalized, negotiations that include a contract agreement can be made in the following cases: 1st By means of sources collected to make copies of their collection and to make such copies available electronically, such as 5. 2. To relight art in general educational material, criticism, and scientific discussion, compare Article 6. The bill. This law involves a considerable change and an expansion of the contracts on arts from the current principles of the author's law. The provision helps simplify rights development because of the reimbursement of art in general educational material regarding criticism and scientific discussion done for financial purposes. Making a contract makes it possible for the user to obtain an account, e.g. as a result of a reimbursement of many works in one way, such as the publication of encyclopedias. The proposal to reimburse a job on the basis of a contract license is prohibited if the author or other Member State in the Member State or for the genetics of the task has been banned from its use in terms of contract agreement. The authority to negotiate by Article 6. The bill, among other things, has been designed to solve long - standing issues between museums and Iceland's Head of Photography for a remuneration for the publication of collections of the world's website. 3. For the sake of copies of published publications to use within institutions, organizations, and companies because of their own activities, including audio and television recordings, compare with Article 8. The bill. This law is intended to replace the agreement on photocopies found in Article 15. a in the law but with a greater range of values. 4. For institutions to make copies of the recordings of radios and TVs for use for the blind, the visually impaired, and the deaf, please see paragraph 9. The new bill. 5. Because of broadcasts on the broadcast of jobs on the radio, another public transport that does not involve the exchange of materials, such as Article 10. The bill. The regulations of the bill are comparable to those of 1 and 2 mg. 23rd par. The law. 6th For cable retrace, like 1 1 1. The bill, which is comparable to the relevant 23rd paragraph. a in author's law. 7. To authorize radio broadcasts and to make available in other ways in advance a foreign piece from their collection, compare Article 12. The bill. 8. In single, well-defined cases, compare 2 mg. a-a team 14. The bill. The rights of non-participants bound by such agreements are the legal laws of the nations. In the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures, each Member State's legal arrangement provides an arrangement to secure the rights of outsiders, but this law is not consistent. The entitlement of the Author's Law on Treaty states that non-conforming rights are the rights of non-participants to the distribution of pay that is paid under contracts and grants contracts. On the other hand, the rights of outsiders to individual payments and how to deal with disagreements about such demands as and about the expiration of such demands. There are no consistent rules on how to proceed if an agreement is not reached on the basis of a contract. It is important that these factors apply in accordance with the rules set out in the bill, such as C-Ear 14 paragraph and Article 19 and 24. The bill. B-mer 14r. The rights to use their actions are recommended on the basis of a contract agreement and in the c-part of the same articles, it is new to comment on reconciliation if the next agreement for use with a contract agreement is granted. Conspiracy must be required for the specific reconciliation that is designated by the minister. Articles 15, 16, 18, 20, 21, 23 and 26 include updated references to author laws in relation to other changes under the bill. 17th par. The bill includes the deletion of 45. g. a in the law and instead will be referred to in Article 3. 45. g. The law, to the 23rd. a As suggested, it will be modified by Article 11. The bill. Twenty-two. The bill includes the removal of the 53rd str. a in the law. Instead, a new 4 mg. of the 26th Team. Act of the law, like the 4th Arms. 14th par. The bill. In par. 24th. The bill is submitted to the conversion of 57th par. The author's legislation on the Constitutional decision-making committee in accordance with other changes resulting from the bill, including the Council of Conspiracy in C-Service 14. The bill. A respectable president. Now I'm going to make some changes to legal authority according to 59 st. a in author's law. Twenty-fiveth. The bill tells us that there are two changes in the 59th grade. a in the Authors' Act. One is an updated wording in 1st. Fifty-niner. a with respect to other changes included in this bill. However, this change in the a-line 2 mg is recommended. Fifty-niner. to allow services in the sense to legalize electronic business and other electronic services to allow them to care for their interests in the prevention of bans as appropriate. As an explanation, the term service should be applied to the person representing the alleged unsalvable distribution of the author's product and closure of Internet access. After loading law No. 93/2010 who approved the warrant to require an international ban on the services, i.e. Communication companies have provided indications that services are not sufficiently protected in the treatment of a ban on the control of the communications company, providing data from a specific website. The basic premise for such a third party to care for their interests in a legal matter is to inform him of its decision and decision. If he receives an announcement of an initial legal hearing directed toward a service he provides, he may make an informed decision to take his rights according to Article 14. track No. 31/1990 or by requesting an average confirmation of a ban on a court case, compare with Article 20. Treated Privately, No. 91/1191. It should be noted, however, that often an answer to a Web site is not available or where to find it, so it is not possible to meet the required notifications. Therefore, the arrangement for action is set out according to the procedure it will take. As attributed to chapter V in general remarks on the bill, comments were made in the consultation process of the bill from composer organizations and the text authors of the law that no law warrants on intermediate services, which came about by law No. 93/2010, if the rights have proved to be difficult to perform, specifically refer to the court's treatment in the city of Reykjavík. This discussion has made me wonder if there is any reason to do so. The General Department of Education and Education Committee will consider the management of the bill and, in consultation with the Ministry of Internal Affairs, whether there is any reason to validate a direct rights have to rush treatment with a local court in such cases without first consulting the county. In this regard, I would like to appeal to the opinion that I have previously described as a court's assignment to measure access to sites considered the source of an illegal distribution of fossil-based materials. In my opinion, the management institutions are not to be assigned to measure the network's censorship. A respectable president. As I mentioned earlier in my speech, this bill is the product of 2 and 3 stages in the overall review of author - law, which has become urgent because of the rapid development of technology and society. It also counts that there will be a follow-up for development in neighboring countries of Iceland. I suggest that this discussion be followed by this bill. General and Education Committee. I am now, most respectable president, to Congress No. 701. This bill includes the implementation of the European Parliament's Directive and of Council 2011/ 77/EU from 27 September 2011, the change in Directive 2006/116/EC, the protection period of the authorised and specific related rights taken up in XVII. A supplement to a mental right to the European Economic Area, to the decision made by the European Commission No. 94/2013 of August 1st, 2014. According to 1st mg. 2.g. The directive was to introduce it in Member States later than November 1, 2013, but the EEA/EFTA countries were granted a delay to August 1, 2014, to implement the directive. The bill suggests that the directive should be implemented by a change of 43. ....................... gro, 46. gr. and 63rd pars. current author song. In addition, three new articles, which will be 47 p.m., are proposed to be added to the law. a, 47. B and 47th. c. The changes proposed to authors in the bill take into account the following: 1st It is suggested that the calculation of the text - based protective periods so that the time of music and song lyrics will be 70 years from the death of the one who lives longer, whether it is a composer or a writer. 2. The bill suggests an extended protection time in audio recordings as follows: a. That protection time for the rights of artists to audio recording of the exports of those who have been published or made available to the public is extended from 50 years to 70 years, calculated from version date, or when audio recordings were made available to the public. b. The same change is made to the appropriate recordings of audio recordings that have been published or made available to the public. 3. The extension of the time of the audio recording is accompanied by a new arrangement on the rights of artists for the annual additional approval of a long protection period. The additional approval should correspond to 20% of the revenue produced by the manufacturer during the extended duration of protection. 4. The bill includes a new arrangement that allows an artist to divulge a contract of rights if the relevant rights are not used to a sufficient degree. 5. Finally, in the bill there is a special set of validation regulations to determine the extent to which the changed rules will be applied to current rights and future contracts. A respectable president. The bill I recommend here includes an important requisition for artists, who now receive a 20 - year extension to the portion of their lifetime income from the practical use of recordings. An in - depth bill with the bill covers each paragraph of the bill and possible applications beyond what I have covered in my speech. It should be noted that EFTA will closely monitor the progress of this national bill as delay for the implementation of Directive 2011/77/EU is delayed and the next steps of the Agency are to refer to the EFTA Court. At this recommendation, I suggest that the bill be followed by a respected president, referred to why. General and Education Committee. A respectable president. So I continue my story on these three matters and I now recommend Congress No. 700, the bill for the Change of Authors No. 73/1972, with subsequent changes. The objective of the bill is to implement the European Parliament's Directive and Council 2012/28/EU, on a specific license to use orphans in the EEA Convention with the decision of the European Committee No. 29/2015 from February 6, 2015, with a change in XVII. Annex to the EEA Convention, May 2, 1992. The contract of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2012/28/EU from 25 October 2012 should now be included in the agreement regarding the legal application of orphans. Minister of the Foreign Minister has proposed a judicial hearing at the current Parliament for confirmation of the decision made by the Joint EEA Committee No. 29/2015 on the change in XVII. Annex to the EEA Convention. The implementation of the directive must be completed by August 6, 2015. For example, cultural institutions that preserve Europe's cultural heritage are in the confusion of the stratosphere of their collections to preserve and make them available online. Much of what is found in cultural institutions depends on the rights of authors. To produce digital copies of a work protected by author - law, either a warrant for rightholders or a special exception to authors. For jobs considered orphans, i.e. work that is widely used but where authors or other rights are not known, or though they are known, it is not known where to find them, it is not possible to consult a source for spelling and making them accessible. The directive is designed to solve this problem facing the cultural institutions of many European countries in order to ensure that Europe's cultural culture is not digitized. In order to achieve that goal, the directive allows certain cultural institutions to use a project without a warrant, if at any time a careful search indicates that they are orphans. Section 12. The authors allow certain museums to make copies of works in their collection of uses in their own activities and to loan such copies in part without special rights. On the other hand, there is no provision in authors' legislation on the sources to provide public media services to make copies of what is found in their museums and/or make them available. The 702 Parliament, which is submitted at the same time as this bill and previously explained in advance, is suggested to adopt a specific agreement form for museums under Article 12. which would be 12. (b) According to Article 5, what must we do to survive the end of Christ's Thousand Year Reign? that bill. It would be entitlement to provide copies of the printed material in their collection and to make it available to the public if there is a pact agreement to that city's legal organization. If such a contract is available, the warrant includes all the works that fall under it, as well as the actions of non - members of the legal organisation, such as the 14th chapter. that bill. If a bill in Congress 702 is met, this law will allow such collections to produce digital copies and make it available, e.g. On the Internet, according to the terms of the contract contract. Similarly, it is in the bill to find a suggestion for a new 23rd bill to be agreed on. ................... the bill that allows radio stations to reimburse activities from their collection and also to make them accessible to the public, including in that each one can approach the work at the place and hour that he himself chooses if there is a contract with that local legal organization. The directive will ensure that if a radio agency had a contract, the Agency could use a piece of work that would be considered its own product and that had previously been sent out by that institution whether the rights of the project were members of the rightful organisations who would be in order to handle such a contract or not, as Article 14. The same bill. That definition, a respectable president, of what is considered an orphan's work. For a-a-dong 1st. 1st par. The bill provides the definition of the concept of an orphaned task written in written languages, audiographs, hieroglyphics, or films, in which no judge has been found despite a thorough search. Strains authorised to use orphans: b-join 1. The bill is the authority of public libraries, educational institutions, museums, archives, and responsored films and audiographs, along with institutions that provide public media services for the use of orphans. The first preamble of the directive makes it clear that these are the institutions involved in spelling the European culture to build digital collections within Europe. They're doing what the bill does. First, the bill includes works published in the form of books, magazines, newspapers, or other written languages. Second, the bill includes recordings and films, as well as audio recordings that have been published or have been broadcast. The bill takes only action belonging to the organisations authorised for the use of orphans, i.e. An agency is authorized solely to use a work according to the bill found in the library of this institution. The bill also includes acts or related rights, which are part of an orphan's work, either inserted, e.g. Drawing in a book, or as an unbreakable part of a job, e.g. The musician's artist's performance for a piece of work. What is meant by the term "concerning "? The premise for the use of orphans is that careful search for correct heads has been performed before the actions are used, as c-joins 1. The bill based on Article 3. The order. The directive obligates those institutions that carry out detailed search and use orphans to maintain a record of the search and use as well as information on the position of orphans and contact details of the local organisation. As with 5 mg, documented information should be sent to law-made governments in the Member State. Section 3. The order. They should also be made up of a central European database to be expelled by the internal competent authority in accordance with Regulation No. 386/2012, and must be available to the public as per 6 mg. Section 3. The order. The purpose of the central database is to prevent double action in the search of justice as well as to help right heads and others to find out what to do as an orphan. The authority to take advantage of orphans. B-joins 2. mg. 1st par. The bill is authorized to use orphans by making copies of them in order to place them in digital shapes, make them available, and record, classes, preserve, and repair them. It is then permitted to make them accessible to the public in that each one can gain access to work at the place and hour at which he chooses. However, there is no other way to make tasks accessible, e.g. by radioing them. Use on the basis of the directive is only allowed if they are due to the Agency's objectives regarding their role in the public service. It should be noted that in a bill in Article 702, which has been previously noted, the recording of a public contract agreement allowing an organisation of rights and users to make a contract for work in a specific and well-defined field is required when a contract license is made possible. Then, in the same bill, we expect access to museums falling below 1.mg. Section 12. in authors' songs to make copies of printed works in their collection and to make them accessible to the above conditions. Together, the source of this account can be used for the use of orphans and a warrant planned for the use of other initiatives still dependent on the author's rights with a contract license to establish its collection into the digital form and make it available to the public. Finally, works are considered an orphan, a respectable president. Right jobs can at any time reverse the position of orphans in their rights. For a team of 3 mg. 1st par. The bill shows that no more work is considered orphans and that its use is no longer permitted without approval if it submits to the agency that uses the task. Court rulers will also be able to send a requirement for their right to work through the central OHIM database, which continues to submit the Court's announcement to the institutions that are using the project along with the agency that carried out the original precise search. Copyright of an orphan's pain which has been used correctly before use, as 3 mg/day. 1st par. The bill. A respectable president. The bill I recommend here is an important factor in creating a legal basis for the work ahead of us in public security and media institutions in putting the cultural element on digital form and making it available to the public. For a further explanation of the bill, I refer to a series of articles and comments to the unique regulations of the bill. A respectable president. I think it is proper to mention the motive given after this reading that it is clear that there is a rather complex subject here. I wish the commission would be very happy to join these bills. I'll think of it as your ex-fiancée. Minister Katrín, daughter of Jakobsdóttir, now of late. A member of the council, introduced, as I mentioned at the beginning of my talk, a guide for a review of the writers' laws. There was the first guide: Dolphins need to be clear and easy to understand. I'm telling you that everything has been tried to make this as easy as possible, but I'm also aware that it's very complex, and I'm fully aware that it can take the council some time to go through these points. However, there is a clear main prince's position below, i.e. to support the harmony of Icelandic rights and Norwegians in this area, and then to sharpen and explain the unique rules of justice, which may have been lacking in clarity. A respectable president. So I have completed my history on the matter of Congress No. 700, 701 and 702 in regard to all the authors' changes. At this recommendation, I suggest that the bill I last recommended, a respectable president, be at the end of the 1st. Pointed to why. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u44	President. I must first make strong comments about the fact that all these matters have been crushed together. They're different in nature, and I can't ask the highest. Minister to all the different factors that call for answers. So I hope that a minister will be there when this discussion takes place. I also want to state that our speech period is severely reduced. We now have only 15 minutes instead of 45 minutes to discuss this extremely physical issue. I'll protest it with a loud voice. Now I have 18 seconds to ask the highest. Minister to something simple, e.g. Wikipedia's emptiness is not present when it comes to discussing, for example, Hallg Monster Church. The New World Translation of Wikipedia does not have a photograph of the Hallg Monster Church, but it can be found in the English edition.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u45	A respectable president. First, the decision to handle the matter at the council. I'm giving the conclusion that this is the discovery of the council classes. Then there's little more to say than that we suggested that this be done. The Ministry of Education does not direct the council, it is the decision of the president to do this in this way, but we were aware that these matters were sufficiently physical to allow them to communicate well. Certainly they are not the same, I'm quite aware of it, a respectable president, but I also said in my speech that I also realized that these are many complex issues that the Senate would have to take time to discuss at the committee and here at the Senate Hall. Hv. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir called for the greatest attendance on this discussion, and I will seek to be the best I can. I cannot give a clear answer to the precise question of the senator, but the idea is, of course, to simplify this rule and make it clearer. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u46	President. I would like to hear a clear answer as to whether it is not the correct understanding that these matters are merely being measured so that they can be discussed during the summer, and then they will continue at 2nd. after extensive treatment of the committee. Although this is relatively simple, it is very complex. There's something that happens every year that really changes with entertainment and culture, and that's why I both wanted to get an answer to this as well as whether it's taken into account the new media like Spotify and Netflix, etc. in these primarys about the author's condition.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u47	A respectable president. I reiterate what was presented in my storyteller, I realize the complexity of the situation here, as well as the ugliness. One senator noted that technological changes are very rapid. In fact, even in the processing of the bill, and in recent years there have been dramatic changes or advances in this field. Then it is necessary to make sure that the changes are taken into account by the council, and the bill reflects the reality we live in. Then it may be remembered that this will be one of the so - called eternity projects we are dealing with at the council because, of course, it will continue. These changes will not stop now, their speed will even increase, and the council will need to respond in a regular way in order to update legislation on authors' work, authors' rights, and public access to materials. [[The president calls.]] With regard to the original question, as with what happens to the painting of the church mentioned by the senator, this is just another question of authorship, nature, and how we can ensure the best access to such works without... [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u48	A respectable president. It's like the highest. A minister of education points out that there are rather complex cases and certainly more complex than usually when things are complicated, just because the changes are so much faster. Now we live in a world where Netflix and Spotify are different, and the market works differently, fortunately, and I think it is a bit reflected in these early plants that they do not take into account the technical progress that has taken place despite the idea that the bill is intended to update the law in line with technological progress. However, at the same time, it seems that these updates of the law are intended to keep up with old ideas that are simply not technically compatible with modern technology. I'm in charge of the 59th requirement. Now this law has been applied. We've been closed on webs like Pirate Bay in companies like a call, and there's no result, exactly nobody. It's just as easy to get into this material as then I wonder where the next step will be. [[The president calls.]] What's the big deal? A minister of that?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u49	A respectable president. Regarding the last point in the senator's inquiry that a ban on the law is required in this bill, it is suggested that legal action be made to ensure the status of the service servant, i.e. the person running the site to which the ban is directed, ensuring that an attempt has been made to contact the relevant person and makes it possible to react. If there's no such person, there's nothing to do with it. On the other hand, in my background, which is just my meditation, I thought that I would have to make sure that if there's some kind of finality involved, it's done with the approach of courts. I believe that such measures may not be taken too well by officials.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u50	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. Certainly at home in courts, and it provokes fear in me and others that legal requests will in some way be a standard process, ◯standard program. Fear is that capital violations on the Internet are quite easy. They cannot be prevented without much overindulge and enormous authority for government or stakeholders to seal off one another. It's been tried here, and this has failed completely. After 20 years of constantly trying to set laws and create technology to prevent the fragmentation of the original text, the mistake is complete. It has never been easier to seek a writer's contents than it is now. At the same time, the industry flourishes across the forecasts that are always spoken of when people want to complain about them. I also wondered where to finish. These tunes don't work, we know they don't work. [[The president calls.]] What do we do to deal with a penitentiary that doesn't go any further?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u51	A respectable president. I have reason to believe that there must be something that can be done to secure a man's penalties as well as other property rights. I also realize the problems we face in this area, and that is why I believe, because of the line between freedom of expression and freedom of use on the Internet and on the other hand, when it comes to using some legal option to close, for example, websites are best passed through courts. That's my opinion. On the other hand, much of the subject is heard by the Ministry of the Interior, but I thought that it was the right thing to express my opinion. However, as for the industry to thrive, I want to point to Icelandic music, it is a real concern for us to see how that version has developed here in the last two years when a number of published audio CDs and other such, or a number of published jobs are seen on CDs. [[The president calls.]] This trend has not been positive overall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u52	Mr. President. I agree with the people here who have mentioned that it is not necessarily appropriate to discuss these matters together. It is not at all necessary, it is two directives on the other hand, and it is a case that is not an arrangement for European rights. V.E.G. The minister made a special subject in his speech that these matters needed a lot of time, and I would like to ask if he does not agree that the council will receive that much time, whether or not it will under pressure that these matters will be over by the end of the council when 14 Congress days remain according to the General Programme. At the U.S. Constitution. There were four cases for authoritarian rights, but only three were submitted, even though all of the reports are quoted above in four cases. So, what makes the fourth thing, which is likely to pay for widgets so that you say this in an easy - to - understand language, not now? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u53	A respectable president. Of course, for the time the matter will take place in the council itself, it is my decision to make. After this discussion is concluded, it will go to the General and Education Committee, which, of course, will take the time that the committee thinks it needs to understand the matter and then contribute to 2nd. if you want to. If we don't make time for this council, we'll take the matter up the next. I don't want to have an opinion at what rate the Congress is going to win this thing, but I have declared that I realize that this is a complicated, important and important matter. With regard to the fourth bill as of any given moment. A senator directs to me a request is that, as I mentioned in my speech, in a financial cost evaluation. There is no assessment, so there was no bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u54	Mr. President. I understand that word. A minister so that it is not European pressure that these types will be introduced in spring, that we really have plenty of time to review these matters. Sometimes we have had to face up to the General Assembly that we have even come up with some form of dissatisfaction to our cooperation in the EEA so that it would be good to get confirmation of the highest level. It belongs to a minister. If the fourth bill is due from the financial cost, do we expect it to be presented here? As I understood it, this is a package that is put together and that would have been the best thing to get the fourth bill with so that members of the Parliament can have the overall picture under their discussion. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he expects that bill to be submitted, at least for introductions, before the council ends.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u55	A respectable president. It is proper to consider the matter of No. 701 is under a time pressure from Europe, but this does not change the fact that the Council takes the time to address the issues they think they need. It must always be the principle here. As for the fourth matter so called, when the cost of time comes, there is no way that it will show up here and follow through in this discussion. Of course, I would like for these matters to go through here, but I normally have an understanding of it, as in any other matter, that the council governs this process and speed. I reiterate as to the situation of the No. 701 and requirements from the EU may contain a situation requiring the completion of the bill. Once again, though, I say that it is the Senate's decision, not that of others.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u56	A respectable president. What I know about this subject is what I heard in a talk. Minister here. Although history is at its height. I must admit that there was another concept in my mind. These are three fairly important bills here taken together for a time that is not very positive. I would expect them to be discussed separately and to wonder about the same things and the things. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir before, the highest. Ministers will expect this to be completed at the spring council. I don't feel entirely optimistic about the fact that it will happen, but I felt that it was too optimistic, that is only one month left of the church's advertised period. I'd like to ask, "Why did it come to the top?" Don't Ministers take these matters into the council sooner?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u57	A respectable president. I again reiterate what has been presented here on the custody of the council; the council takes the time they intend, no matter how I feel about that time. A minister has nothing to say about how the council works. I just reiterate what I've said about one of the issues in which there is a particular situation. This will not change the custody of the council. Then the question is, Why not before? It's complicated, it's taken time to win it. This is part of a bigger and more revision. Now the matter is ready, and this is the case, even though the fourth matter is the case. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir said to turn the widget around, can be submitted as soon as it comes from a cost estimate.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u58	A respectable president. If this case is to be joined by a committee now following this discussion, I assume it will be sent to a review and will definitely need three weeks. This shows that there is one week left before the committee to have visitors on the basis of their comments. I imagine three complicated cases, like the highest. Ministers say, which has been built for a long time would require as much presence at the council as at the Ministry, not less. I would have thought that it would be better for the minister and the Ministry to advertise the case on their website and give the public a chance to give a statement. It might be early for this fall's work, but it seems impossible for me to end this case at the spring council as little time as is left for the council. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Has anyone been given an opportunity on the Department's Homepage to give reviews on these matters?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u59	A respectable president. Because of what lays. The speaker mentioned the last reason to state that, yes, the cases were presented and given the possibility of reviews. All the work within the Ministry has been just to make sure those in need and interests are cared for and then the common people. I don't think it's a general rule that it has to take as long as it takes for the council to do business. There is a somewhat different work going on at council halls and committees, but there is an error in preparing matters within the council. It may even take more time for the council to go through matters, but it takes time to make them in the plots and vice versa. I am fully aware that the duration of the assembly is getting shorter. In the past, I have repeatedly served as a case of No. 701 is in, and it is probably considered to be the case. Although the issues are directed to the council for a period of time, as one of the senators put it, they do not necessarily have to complete the situation and resolve it all. [[The president calls.]] One matter can be settled, finished one or two, or three as much as you want.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u60	A respectable president. There's been some kind of mistake here. These are three subjects, one another larger, and here they are all discussed at once when it would have been much better to discuss them individually because this arrangement is very much less time for our members to discuss matters. We would have had 45 minutes in general to discuss all the matters that I don't think would have been necessary because of the most important issues we would have had to discuss, No. 702 is probably what would have taken much more time than the others. Instead, we have 15 minutes to talk about all the things at once, and we can only answer the top. Minister once after history for all three things. This may be a backdrop where one minute to ask questions is simply not enough time to hold on to everything that is involved here. There are a lot of important issues here, so I must strongly protest that they are all discussed at once. [[The president calls.]] I'll be back later on on on how this all works, but I have to protest strongly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u61	The president wants to state that there had been a request to discuss these matters together, which is equal to 4 mg. 77st. Congress, so it's all been done. The president is aware that this is how he was read at the outset, and no one spoke against it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u62	President. First, when this request was uttered, most members of the council, if only one, were in the dining hall in order to participate in these discussions and run in here, and this decision had only been made. This was never discussed at a council meeting. It is a natural realm to make such a wish and, according to the Supreme Court, to make a statement. He felt that it had been brought up at a council meeting. I believe the President has made Congress on freedom of expression here today on such important matters that I don't really have a reputation for this kind of work. It's not just one thing, it's everything in this workplace.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u63	A respectable president. I agree with the comments presented here. There has been good agreement on today's programs with the president in agreement with the council members, but in terms of this proposal, there was no consultation. I'd like to allow me to believe that it was a mistake on the top of the world. President. The chamber was almost empty, and no senator was inside when the president announced a protest that was not received. I have reason to believe that during lunch break, we must consider how this can be managed in a better way so that it will be given sufficient normal space for the discussion that these three issues offer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u64	A respectable president. I was trying to recall with me the arrangements that have been made for these things. I think that for the most part, when making decisions like this, they went to council members, but that's not a surprise. I remember that it was often just a president's decision, and he has the authority to do so. Because this is the case and that these comments have been made, I state myself prepared to try to be the best at the debate at the council, so as to do so. The members of the council can normally approach me with inquiries, and I will be more involved in the discussion to make sure that the views behind my initials are presented. I also reiterate that the main weight of work is being carried out within the committee, where there is a number of complex primes involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u65	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the effort. Recently, however, the cooperation between council groups with presidents has been very good, and there is a great solid solid solidarity in the program here and in the days ahead. I thought that in all our conversations, people were aware that we peered into the matter as very important and based on the fact that our views were not made to delay anything, it was simply because this is a very important subject that we take very seriously. Hence, it is surprising that this was decided without the presence of members of the council members in the hall or, in fact, that it seems, would appear, as the proposal was made in the middle of a lunch break. I took as short a lunch break as I could imagine, and at the time I thought fit best. That was not enough. Yet, I came in as soon as I saw the authors' affairs coming on, despite the fact that the first thing, which is 700, was not the case I had thought to talk about, but the 702. [[The president calls.]] Then it had already begun, it had been made, and it was all too late. This makes me wonder because we have been very clear about the fact that these are matters that we really care about.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u66	A respectable president. There's been an excellent gathering between the highest. The president and group members of the Governing Body of the great program for this day. I think everyone agrees to try to finish it, but taking these matters at once, as I mentioned earlier, is a bit of a classy. This is not in harmony with what was discussed and should not lead to any delay in these matters. I think it's important that men have an opportunity to discuss each of them separately, and I'll pick this up as president on the occasion in the council. I think it's very important to be corrected and to discuss these matters separately.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u67	President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Education minister for efforts but also agree with what has been presented in the matter. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson and wah. paritaprevir Róbert Marshallur. This is a very classy feature of the conversation that took place when this program was being negotiated. I don't quite understand what the president's intentions are to produce a piece of art at such a delicate time that we are now on the council. I'm glad we have the opportunity to direct questions to the minister of our talks. Yet, it is a very difficult task to discuss matters and to make sure that we have a thorough discussion of the issues presented by these bills.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u68	A respectable president. I'm not entirely aware of the agreements that have been made on these matters, but bringing together three issues in one section of the natural period. The discussion period is not just a coincidence to slow down time or something like that. It is so that people can come to all the things they feel are important to them at any time. That may be a foolish thought, but I wondered, " Can I talk about all the matters at once and have a triple speech lesson? ' Is that a solution?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u69	A respectable president. I just want to reiterate that I will continue to participate in discussions as the occasion arises. I also think it's necessary to keep it in place that I believe the president is in full right in making such a decision, that's his opinion that it means there's enough bodies to make such a decision. It's often discussed at the scene of the council groups, but it's not absolute, I think I'm quite ready that I'm not. I hope this will not cause any damage to the matter or to the best agreement here on how Congress works in the days ahead. This is all we could think it was for the council to have it like this. I understand what has happened to some people. Congress members say they don't think so. The president's conclusion is, this is the situation, but I will then, as I say, according to the incident being here to answer. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u70	The president has listened to the views that have been expressed by members of the council and from the highest level. A minister who has declared willingness to be more involved in the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u71	A respectable president. As mentioned earlier, I would have wanted more time to discuss all these matters. I'm not going to spend any more time discussing it here, and now I'm going to have a respectable president who has shown his understanding of all of this and has shown the attitude of having to sort it out as far as possible. We'll discuss three matters at a time, 700th, 701 and 702th Parliamentary matters, but as many must know at this time, a group of piratas is directly established because of authorhood and authorhood on free communication on the Internet. The bills we discuss here are not all bad, however, they do share in my opinion that they take into account the new times we live in only to the point of trying to keep old and dominant ideas about how authors law should function. The problem is that they do not work in the light of modern technology, i.e. if we want the law to be followed and that it can be carried out in some way. In this regard, I would like to mention the phenomenon of business costs. I think most people in this room know what that means, but it's the cost of doing business. Business costs are in three main areas, when looking for information, in the process of negotiations and then in the follow-up and monitoring of contracts. On the Internet, I'd like to say that it is absolutely impossible to follow up and monitor negotiations, i.e. if we make a deal where one buys, for example, one piece or one film because the material is distributed and then it becomes untraced if the Internet is free and open, and preferably because it is not like illegal material in that it is legal to produce movies, music, art, and ideas, and it is legal to distribute it, and it is legal to consume it. People want to take care of it, they want to enjoy it, and they want to spread it. The pregnancy in breaking the author's seal is far higher than when it comes to spreading illegal substances of a different kind. These include recreation, not something that directly involves crimes such as children or violent acts. There's a difference. As a result, trying to control information online when it comes to author rights is actually impossible. I don't think that's what these bills are, but it's a subject that's always in a lot of fermentation. As seen at the highest. The minister will never really, at least, end this discussion. not as long as the world continues to change. In the European Union it is now important that we know beforehand what such changes will be before we can finally make a decision about the changes we have here. Here are the changes in terms and things that involve the substance of author rights and therefore I don't think it's appropriate that we set laws here and now that come to change soon after the European Union thinks of any change in the language category as it appears. That's one of many reasons why I'm sorry about how late this is presented at the council, even though I have full respect for the ability to do so. I don't think it's likely to work, at least not according to our current schedule, to finish this case here in spring, simply because we are to deal with this issue as highly as possible and that we do not have all the information that has to do with the development of these matters permanently. Now these bills have been on for quite a while, which is fine. Of course, good work is a codfish, but it has a boring effect that they get out of the way rather quickly than just what is going on in other parts of the world. Since we're talking about all these bills at once, I'd like to mention only the prolongation of the era of mental protection. The only evidence I see in the bill, that is, in question, 701th, is that people live longer, and therefore they have to extend the protective time of the authors from 50 to 70 years. All right. However, when it comes to the protection of the author, it is extended from 50 to 70 years after the author's death. This helps me understand well because when you are dead, you do not enjoy the fruits of your labor. I don't see how such a prolongation should increase the imagination that, after all, the original content of a authorly book, to increase artistic creations, would create a way for people to see benefit in creating ideas and works of various kinds. I don't see that this change will bring it. I don't see any studies to show that. However, the subject has been investigated. In 2003, Landes and Posner concluded, taking into account an expiration date, that averaged about 15 years. Each additional year thereafter, there is little benefit on average. It may be that if the duration of protection is too long, it is a waste of quality that can be used free of charge, but it is physically involved in some sort of feasibility. My primary concern is the question of how permafrost laws are essentially meant to be. The problem I can picture, and I hope to the highest. Minister is willing to make small talk about this here and elsewhere, how in the time of the Internet, I suppose everyone in this room would like to have free and open, to enforce the author's rights to individuals. It's a little different with individuals than with a business. If we're talking about companies like Netflix, Spotify, YouTube, and Hulu, they're all in common that they want to be on the market because they have the rights. They want to live in a state of justice, want to be accessible, and render an account. In general, these companies and companies can provide certain responsibilities, responsibilities that are not realistic or that are wise to impose on individuals. It is possible to insist that companies have a much higher level of control than individuals. Therefore, most important to me is that authorial laws no longer revolved around authors' patents to distribute and multi-fold material and think rather that authors have a patent to profit from their actions. There is a fundamental difference. Business models allowing any government to exist in companies, to legislators who want to live in a state of law and want to act legally. It is much more difficult for hundreds of millions of people here and where only some computer is in town and only break the rule of writers, no matter how muttering or humming. These people cannot be controlled, and I suggest that we not want to control them. Only to the extent that it is absolutely necessary that there is a natural need, should we want to control communication online? Once this is under control, we should make sure that it is in accordance with the rules of the legal state, i.e. of course by court order, etc. The business expenses I mentioned earlier come in there. If a business or government was really going to enforce the distribution table on the author's staff, i.e. If business practices are not legalized, the cost of enforcing authorial rights would be so vast that, in fact, it would never be worth it. Instead, rules have been set to consider the responsibility of others, to do so in some way easier to close, to intervene in some way without going through the usual procedures that follow, for example, a police investigation. I can give you an example. If there are data to show any violence or material we're about to develop, say child pornography, or anything like it, a process is in place according to the concept of a state designed to start an investigation, trace IP numbers, get search warrants, etc. To try to match the authorly course of this convention would never at any time answer the cost. There is the problem, or part of the problem. That's why you get ideas like putting songs called DMCA in the United States, ◯Divittal Millenium Copyright Act◯, I don't know that it has an Icelandic title, a respectable president, which makes it easier to report penalties or, rather, intentional violations. According to the Icelandic law, it is enough for the alleged author-age violation to be committed, to be reported to the relevant provider and to close the material even if it is not directly responsible for it itself, if, for example, it is hosted, to the alleged offense, not to an proven offense, but to the alleged offense. Then there is the subject of explaining that he owns the material and has authorized its release. This is also the opposite of what you have to get used to in a legal state, but this is because it's the only cost. That's the problem. The only way to enforce classical ideas about writers is to turn around to the burden of evidence and provide sources of observation and intervention that we would never allow. It is the contradiction of classical ideas about authoritarian rights to civil rights and democracy. These bills are not all bad, but as I said they have in common that they do not take into account this changed reality. They see the world has changed. They see the need to do something and want to update definitions and to explain things that may have been as clear as before but not to deal with the fundamental problem that is also for society's full blessing. It is that, unlike previously, information has become essentially free of charge. It once took job and effort to distribute information, and mindwork is nothing more than information in the past, but now it is essentially free of charge. It's cheaper to produce this, at least Much of this, it's certainly easier to distribute it, and it's harder than ever, in fact, impossible in a free society to control this information. We cannot control information without controlling information. To illustrate the irony involved, I recall the nonrescriptable CDs that Sony put in the market sometime when I was a teenager and people laughed at this, right now, because the idea was this: we're going to take a device A, which is the CD player and we're going to use the earpiece B and we're going to allow the transfer of a device of A to a device B, but somehow stop it from leaving a device an A to any other set of devices B. This is not possible. Information is that by controlling it, you have to control it. If we don't control them, we won't control them. It's so simple in the overall sense. That's the problem, it's a physical problem, and it's a problem we can't act as normal as we can unless it's wrong. We've got to find some new ways. Now I've only got two minutes left, unfortunately, but the good news is that business models are coming into existence. Our goal is to find new solutions to how humans can be activated and paid for what must be the common goal of all of us. We just disagreed on how to do it. This may be the easiest thing to do for acting producers and software producers because they have long realized that it is the wisest thing to offer some kind of service, e.g. To create a game like World of Warcraft or Eve Online. You can spread the game, it doesn't matter, but in order to play with others, you have to log in on a certain service and on that service you can control without watching or listening to anyone. There is no need for such methods of service unless it is simply paid. This is not the simple thing in other articles, and there are different articles that fit in well. Netflix and Spotify are good first steps; however, it is the problem with the service that she pays the authors very little, if anything above her head. It is a problem that we should rather concentrate on, the way we are able to develop laws that enable writers to use such services and to be paid fairly without having to go into the limit on information. Actually, the market is such that if the price is moderate and the service is good, people are prepared to pay for good. It shows itself over and over again. Nothing has stopped a so-called illegal download better than Netflix and Spotify. Although the savings did not reach authors, unfortunately, that is a problem we should focus on, this shows that the struggle against authoritarian violations is not to catch those who violate author rights but to give them a service they are willing to pay for. We know it can be done. That's a fact, experience shows this. I'm sorry, but I don't have time for more, more distinguished President. [[The president calls.]] Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u72	A respectable president. First as a boy. A senator last mentioned. Of course, the development of business models that have fallen to ensure that owners of authoritarian material receive normal payment is the most important thing. You're absolutely right. A senator noted that this is the way, if we are looking at such developments and such developments. The problem may be a little bit in the moment, as long as it's happening. For example, in a edition of music in Iceland, we see that there has been a marked recession over the past two years because the models we're talking about are not quite yet there. I'd like to mention the changes and work being done at the EU scene that it is exactly as fast as possible. A senator says, but that's exactly what the problem is, it's always gonna be this way. If we're going to wait until they finish and do something, then they'd have started another job already. I think we have to take the steps we think are necessary now and then continue to monitor the trend. The purpose of this prime event is to connect and bring more to our laws so that, for example, what happens in other parts of the North countries. For that bill No. 701 that has to do with time or time and protection during the period of authoritarian action should be kept in mind, because we are considering, for example, The European and European Union, this is the implementation of a European Parliament's Directive No. 77 from 2011, so we are actually initiating only the system that has been adopted in Europe. There is a possibility that EFTA will follow this issue because the deadline for the induction has passed. In my historical history, I mentioned that this is the case. That does not mean that all the problems must be handled by one, two, and three in order to deal with them, it would be enough to handle this situation. This is merely the implementation of an order. Then I'd like to tell the other one why. A senator made a difference between companies and individuals, that I understand that well. [[The president calls.]] But there is no forgetting that behind companies are individuals, and they are protected as such. We often watch big companies, but that's how before these companies grow up, they start very often by being small and we must protect them from these trends, i.e. individuals who own these companies. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u73	A respectable president. The lack of time has already reached our tails. It is true that there is a recession in the publication of music in Iceland, rather in sales of music. In recent times, however, Icelandic musicians have enjoyed great success. It's one of the patterns we see, despite all that, more fantastic music is coming into existence, and it's becoming more popular, and it reaches out to others at the same time and problems with distributions and sales. What is so important is that there are also other business models that are constantly developing and that are not fully developed. I would especially like to mention two of them. On the other hand, some musicians can give their music, try to distribute it in many places, and make money at concerts because there is also an increased attendance at concerts. There are many theories. One is that people simply have more between their hands because they load the material much less expensive, but the coin takes its place in a concert. I suggest it's a fun development. It's much more living, as it used to be in the old days. When the records arrived, they were concerned that no one would go to a concert anymore. It is an opportunity to reverse that trend for those who miss it. It's one model some can take advantage of. However, it depends on the artist's position, one can, but another may not necessarily. It should also be noted about this model that the musicians who can take advantage of it will actually take the listening market away from those who are unable to do so. So this also creates some new problem, which is why it is constantly in fermentation. Another fine example of a new model that needs to be tried more effectively is when a certain band in Iceland decided to do what is called an English Scrowd Summit, i.e. to increase the amount of money produced on CD. They received three times as much as they asked, got paid, got more than they planned, and made the disc. Then, of course, there's a longer story behind what I'm afraid I don't have time for. But there are new models playing music. [[The president calls.]] We need to let them enjoy themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u74	A respectable president. I think we agree on this trend, and I don't think anything in the projections will stop evolution from occurring. A senator mentions. I think it's true to bear in mind that although Icelandic musicians have made a great deal of success in the international field with their music, it's unstopped from the music program, then all the large group of musicians that publish and play, they create the listening market, but it's only part of the large population that reaches the international market, in fact, a small part. Then it is important that there be a domestic market that grips the large group, for if this does not continue, it will be only a limited part of our history, at least, of my concern. There has to be a market for new bands to present their art and versions and to sell them. I agree with what. Senator, that's what's going to happen, this model will come. But here and elsewhere, people are concerned that we are in that place today that the models are not sufficiently strong and, like the wind, are not strong enough. A senator mentioned in his speech, that there is too little to be seen by artists, and too much to go to the companies who run services like those mentioned, Spotify, and other such. It's not quite okay for us either. Thus, all these discussions are vital and must be kept in mind. Of course, what is contained in this primary network and could touch it is a special examination.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u75	A respectable president. I'm concerned with the highest. Minister in Icelandic language. The current application by Authorism will not fix it either, because while evolution occurs with foreign music, even Icelandic music on the English language, it does not change people's access to more material. In fact, I don't really see that it could be solved by traditional means other than cutting off ties with abroad, which I completely assume no one is willing to do. The domestic problem, as I'm going to call it, is there no matter how much we look at it. In my opinion, and it actually goes beyond this, it is a far greater problem that we need to face in order to maintain the Icelandic language and culture. The other thing is that it is a tiny group of musicians who will ever achieve a great success, called in English, a respectable president, that ◯meika. But that's always been the case. There's nothing new. In fact, rather, musicians and artists in general who never had a chance 30 years ago can at least now, with hard work and organization, promote themselves. There was a time when the only way to do that was through a publishing company. There's something else that's changing. The result is good and bad. One of the good results is that there is a democratic system around which attention and who does not come. Of course, the bad news is that the cake is divided among other people, which means that fewer people can directly survive the music trade or even its production. This is all something we need to see how things are going for a long time. But if these bills won't exactly stop it unless it's possible - now I need more time - this with the extension of the protection period that I would have wanted to discuss in particular, I don't feel that we're trying to build the law out of this new time, but not from the old times considering the new one. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u76	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a fine speech. I'm among those who believe it's important to protect the author-friendly artists and to ensure creative branches of their working environment. Of course, it is not only a matter of how the cookie is changed but also a matter of implementing it in such a way that it becomes as proud as it is, of course, what it is. It has many complex opinions and a good idea to have someone as informed about it as he is. A senator. I'm sure that if we had a special minister of the Internet or an Internet minister, they wouldn't think twice when they appointed a senator on that assignment, because the senator has an important knowledge of that subject. I would like to ask him at the outset if he doesn't believe that the complex issues he considered are of the order of magnitude that these bills are actually too late for this council to work with them and that they can be completed after four, five weeks, as the Congress's program suggests. Does he not assume that this is the main point in this round of events and that those who need attention and tips there will receive this time, and then it is only natural that the matter will be taken up again in the fall, all of its main points, and that they will try to be careful about the complex matters that the senator discussed in his speech?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u77	A respectable president. I'd appreciate it if we could go through all the statistics at this present assembly, I have to say at the moment. According to this, it is worth a lot of consideration at the time we have and trying to figure out how to do the best and if not best, the way things work out. In terms of how the bills can affect the development of business models in general, I'm afraid of that most of the bills, and especially the case of No. 702, that they change the arrangement so that there will be less experience with the way things work at the present time and that new things must be tried to do while other laws occur, either in Europe or in the discussion here or whatever. So I feel really uncomfortable trying to make these changes right now. I think it's extremely bad timing. When it comes to allowing these business models to develop, there are two things we have to do. On the one hand, we need to restrain ourselves from trying to keep the old models. We must allow the new business models to be found only in the present environment. If we stir in it, we can accidentally jeopardize new business models based on an age - old interpretation of the arrangement that is present at the right time. The other thing we have to do is figure out how we can change the law to make more business models, e.g. Netflix, Spotify and YouTube, etc. An example of an extremely brilliant business model is YouTube, or rather, if the law was such that any author-proof material could be placed on YouTube, no matter what the author thinks, but YouTube would be required to pay a certain percentage of advertising revenues. There are models like this going on, but it's based on the assumption that it's really not supposed to be installed at first. It really depends on what is bad. [[The president calls.]] There's always an error in the law about that. These are the kind of problems we should be focusing on, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u78	A respectable president. Thank you. Senator. Of course, it is important to monitor the development of business practices in this area as well as in others, even more so, in this case, because it is a major development. It is important to remember that not what has been taken away is not the case but that use can lead to even greater use, thus creating greater value for the author. Obviously, they should not be allowed to develop trades that are at the expense of creative artists or that they need for years to live in an unacceptable working environment because some company is developing a new business environment. We must ensure that the interests of those whose advancement is dependent on their own rights. However, I would like to say in general about the bills, and I am glad that the senator is not going to join his forces in working with them during the few weeks that I believe it is important that this is the end of what is involved in the implementation of the European Union Directive. I got it. I got it. A senator to support the Supreme Court. The minister of education of Illugi Gunnarsson in that we expel the sleazy word into it, we're past the time in it, and we're implementing the European Commission's directive in Icelandic law.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u79	A respectable president. Of course, I would like to have as much work as possible, but we need to be careful and then we need to get the time we need to finish our job. Hv. A senator rightly mentions the potential for greater use. That is exactly what makes the mind - working industry and the nature of information in general different trades with products made out of solid objects. When you create a fantasy once, I'm a programmer and a musician myself, so I know exactly what it is to create a mind job, you've created it, and the mass production process is basically free in this 21st century. This involves, not necessarily, justification on copying it indefinitely, but an indication that it is basically different from making 100 million loaves and playing 100 million songs. Since there is a fundamental difference in how this service is performed, it is only natural that the business models used to support such production and to make sure that everyone is paid for their work, which is what we all want. Hv. A senator noted that evolution must not cause an artist's interests to be harmed. There's two things in it. We need to know how to give the best of artistic interests. The interests of artists do not necessarily involve this particular application. That's the whole point. It is not the best interests of artists to rebel at having an ancient idea of how capitalist rights function 100 or 200 years ago, or even 30 years ago, in an environment that simply does not rely on the same basic physics, or not physics, but fundamental laws in the distribution and production process. Everyone here agrees to ensure the best interests of artists. I'm a programmer. My dad's a man of silence. My mom's a moviemaker. I know how to make music. Hv. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir is a poet. We make ideas. We want it to be okay. But the application needs to be reasonable.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u80	President. I'm so confused about how little time I have to discuss these matters. Many people believe that piranha and Internetmen in general want to get everything free and that there are advocates of stealing ideas. It's based on a big misunderstanding. I'm going to try to explain why we need to reevaluate capital laws from the reality that we are living today. I can't see that we're moving closer to the new time with this adjustment in the law, while we're completely stopped. For example, if I buy a science book today, I have the right and the ability to lend as many as I want that book without asking a source or my identity as a criminal. I have even participated in international projects where books are left in the open field and the one who finds a book is encouraged to read it and then left behind for others to enjoy it. The goal is to get as many people as possible to read. I may also lend my CDs, even give them and not need permission, probably because it can be stopped in real life only by a total police state. After the Internet, the culture of sharing mental acts among friends, even digital friends, and the problems between continents, have moved to another stage, and it is easier to share ideals. However, because of the way the dragnet is built up, it is much easier to observe who share and how, restrict and restrict it. Pirates are concerned about this development, since those who have achieved the greatest success in crime and sharing have power, have one foot in the council offices west of the ocean, and are deeply involved in the legislation of the legislators. The legal monsters who have come out of that work have put into place the free network we are used to in danger and have already destroyed the free flow of information. Many young people have been given absurd sentences for sharing culture, documents, scientific research, and public interest information. More often than not the artists themselves, the most powerful writers are those who take the lead in making money based on the imaginations of the artists, and they have a very high responsibility for that condition, i.e. The real writers. A recent news report on Britain's richest men and is none other than Len Blavatnik, owner of Warner Music, who is the richest man there, says very much about who gets some of the slipper. The big stakeholders have taken the initiative to build walls on the Internet that many of the region have experienced by unable to legally buy music through iTunes or TV shows and movies via Netflix or Amazon. They have since served as a pattern of similar walls, which governments have used to prevent the free flow of information, such as that. When Amazon kicked WikiLeaks with its contents out of his digital cloud because of political pressure from the U.S. authorities. Many countries experimented with varying degrees of success. Then the network that rewritten WikiLeaks' website was tested and switched to what is called mirrors, around the world, where culture and legal tradition allow public attention to be given to the doubt. Many artists have experimented with unconventional access to their imaginations and have participated in the remarkable development taking place by establishing new business models for mental rights and criminal proselytism by sharing data on their own ideals. These include Gaiman Gaiman, Paulo Coelho, and Doctorow Doctorow. They, along with many others, understood that by granting as much access to their imaginations in Internet worlds, their imaginations are simply selling much better in the real world and in other parts of the world. It's time we found common and reasonable solutions. For example, the Green Group of the European Parliament published a book on a full reexamination of capital law by Falkvinge, the founder of Pirata in Sweden, and Engström, the first European Parliament of Pirata. Pirates want to support the suggestions found in it and wish and want to work to make a suitable policy in the spirit of the 21st century in writers' law. No one can tear apart the traditions that have been formed among the e - forcemates around the world and then interlock into a uniform rule of authors. All too much is at stake to make the rules of rules that came to be addressed simply to the world in which we live today. Most under 30 years of age know only a reality in which free flow of information, communication, culture, and society is the norm, the borderless world shaped by the Internet has developed into our world, which is hard to explain to those who do not share in that world. Peace of privacy is something most people value, one of the most fundamental human rights in mature democracies. Sadly, that immunity is ignored in Internet worlds. Most laws designed to protect us from the efforts of corporations and governments that penetrate our private information are totally out - of - date when it comes to Internet systems. Improvements there need to be carried out in a comprehensive review of the layers of capital, and in this context it is worthy to examine Article 21. The 702th issue of this magazine has been made available to the intermediate. It is an attempt to provide greater protection for the intermediate, which is, of course, time. It needs to ensure that there is a real intermediate protection in the spirit of the policy to be shaped in the development of Internet-friendly Iceland. In this context, I wanted to direct a inquiry to the highest level. Secretary of education with respect to cross-defence or the jurisdiction of the 21st C.E. They're coming up with all kinds of policies and working on making Iceland into an ideal country, that there's gonna be an Internetised country, and they're gonna have a legal standing in that area. Now it's true that at the Ministry of Ministry. Ministers are working on the law that the government was commissioned to work on in connection with the Parliament's resolution that Iceland will enter a legal position for information and freedom of expression and that will be specifically discussed with international protection. As a result, I and others in the world felt that it would be most important to continue in the vastest way, so they found a place in Internetly Iceland. I'm going to refer to a review from IMMI, an international agency on freedom of information and expression, to exactly this aspect in Internet-friendly Iceland, by permission of Presidents: It is important to review the importance of certain factors when considering the right protection for users. And then it is the intermediate protection: the function of the intermediate team, which the aforementioned Parliamentary proposal, is a key factor in attracting companies from the sectors where information is involved, which would result in major problems if they were legally responsible, in general, for the information they are hosted by them. At the same time, those who charge evidence want to be safe for their own good. More important, those who host Web sites or other sites in Iceland want to be confident that unless court order comes, they will not be exposed to censorship or any barrier. I think it should be handled in this article, but I want it confirmed by a minister, so I'm sure I'm not mistaken. Therefore, no intermediate can be held responsible, and the law on it must be clear. Then I would also like to ask if a minister believes that this is clear enough. ▪ This includes the communications adviser and fixes electronic transactions and other electronic services. This point in these laws conflicts with electronic laws. I find it so important when we discuss these laws on a committee that it is absolutely certain that they are compatible with other laws under other departments or with the policies under which they are working. So I'm going to continue: a firm that here knows how to move her activities, as well as small and medium-sized enterprises, if these regulations are not clear, and this is the main theme of the law that the IMMI synopsis guarantees as regards business and application in those topics worldwide. I'd like to inform the highest. The Minister of Education that I have been in close cooperation with parties, experts in this area abroad, because it so happens that in this respect we are not an island. It was recently, it may have been three weeks ago, which was a significant meeting in the Philippines, and there it made up what is called the new Manila target, a sound over the middle. I think it's very important to examine those criteria. This proved to be a turning point result at that meeting. It's been hard to figure this out, because the telecommunications laws always refer to the writers' law. Then, if it goes further, then all of a sudden the authorly fixed agreements have been written in the 18th century and have not been changed since 1970 and something. I think it's very important that we look at this continuously so that the legislation does not conflict with something, which means that those who are interested in hosting local materials continue to hold on to themselves. We've actually missed the train while a giant company, a hosting company, has taken up residence in countries all around us. Because of the slowness of finishing this council arrangement, we've missed the train a little, and I hope, and I'd like to ask the highest degree. Education minister whether he does not share my vision and so many others that Iceland was an ideal place to house data and to set a policy on it by modern legislation, which others can then tell whether works or not here, based on the best possible experiment anywhere else. By taking it systemic, we get a lot of publicity. We did not make good use of the means we got a few years ago, but better than never before. Then I'd like to go over everything else, and there are concerns about how long the protection of authors is being extended. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson's talk was a brief one. I wanted to be right about how important it is that you don't have writers if you're dead. I would like to see the security of new writers that artists enjoy paying for their work while they live so that they can create without any financial concern during their blooming time, which must be life because it is the way artists do it that many of them often do their best works either when they are teenagers or fire - olds. I think it's very sad to see us film this nonsense. I know it's the highest. Minister knows the song well that sounds like this, with the permission of the president: We know that song. It's a reminder that we're always in transformation times and revolutions where one species of something develops into something else. I know this law isn't out of the secretary's tear, it's coming from other sources, like many European laws, but I'd like to ask the Minister if he doesn't think it's right to wait a bit. It is naturally wise to put forth the matter and get reviews, and there may be more clear lines about the massive and ambitious authorialism, the revolution of original rights in the European Union, because we always end up taking up their laws. I'm not gonna push much more questions to the highest level. Ministers, for he will answer only and will not be able to speak. I hope we take the time to go over this properly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u81	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for an informative speech. There are a few things I would like to remind you, but I'm going to start by mentioning one thing I've done before, in terms of exactly the matter of Congress, which is the introduction to European regulations, that EFTA is following this issue. We're past the last day. In itself, we do not have much leeway in the matter, but it is important that the matter be made clear at the council so that people can see it then, on the other hand, in this regard. Not all of them are involved, so not all of them are under that pressure. Then I'd like to say about it as much as possible. A senator mentioned the details of the law's harmony, this large and large picture that the senator discussed. I agree that it hangs together, there are many layers and a lot of things people have to be careful that people don't run into one another of these things. That's one of the things you hope to do. A Senate committee takes the time to examine this factor. But I want them to repeat one thing. This is not a complete law or solution to all the great problems we are discussing. This is only a specific factor and needs to be watched so that it fits into some overall picture, but we are not involved or are making any meaningful changes in this arrangement. But there's something I want to say. What is so important is that artists are paid for their work. If this does not happen, the only solution will be that the government begins to run the artists. If they don't have alimony, that's where it ends. It's not good, we don't want it to develop that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u82	President. The reality now is that there are some artists who are fortunate enough to have received an artist's salary, but of course it would not be good if government business was in the arts, for it would mean that artists would certainly not be as brave as to say and do what is needed to provide the government. I am completely aware that this is not a complete, complete law code. What I wanted to ask the minister about the matter we're about, how is it, can we bring some radical changes without being fired back with them, or how is it? Or pragmatic adjustments, let's say, for radicalism is now rather pragmatic in nature. Then I would like to ask, since I am a very special candidate for the Bernic covenant that is truly a child of its time. I'd like to ask and challenge the highest. A minister of education, after he has reached out for these matters, would he not be willing to put up with them for modern use? As mentioned in my speech, these laws have not been changed since 1975, and it's not the same world, it's almost as if we were transferred to Mars. The Child's Convention is a major source of cleaning, and it is very difficult to deal with because it stops certain progress on the fossil record.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u83	A respectable president. First, what I couldn't get over earlier as well. The senator talked about, i.e. the middle and their protection. What's being suggested in the bill is to ensure that, when any measures are taken, they are made aware that an attempt is made to contact the representatives of such companies or parties, so that they can maintain protection. Of course, if they are not found, that is a new situation. Since I've said, I took it up in my background, and I've said it in a public field before, that I believe that if there's some kind of conclusion that there's any kind of service involved, it's normal for court order to do so. I don't like it very well, and it's a danger that government officials or county officials make these decisions. I think it's better to go on the court route. Then, just briefly, the artists are shut down. I hear what you're saying. A senator agrees with me that it would be very undesirable evolution for the arts, for just the critical roles of the artists, and so on, if the trend would be that only the state would be a higher priority that would have to be brought in to support the artists or help the artists to live because the revenues have not come into existence or that they will develop in such a way that they can also be abandoned, that artists will not be given much for their share, it will be very large distribution companies in a different way than before. There's a certain concern. Then, in regard to the covenant that is taught by Bern. One senator mentioned, I am quite ready to look into that matter, expecting to receive excellent counsel from the mouth. A senator on the issues I know of this very well.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u84	President. That's good news. I think there's an improvement in the middle of the team that allows people to get a chance to defend themselves, that's an improvement. I'd like to take a good look at this, and it's not likely that Piratar, or our representative, of the General and Education Committee will provide some suggestions for strengthening the law for the middle team. But there's one thing about artists. I don't know how many I've made up of right now through Karolina Fund, which is a wonderful enterprise that would never have been possible except because of the Internet. For example, I am now going to a theater because I strengthened a play, I have strengthened poetry books, and God knows what, just all kinds of material, and young musicians to do their first work. I think we're just experiencing this need somehow because they're a little lost that may have started. It is virtually impossible for writers, artists, or musicians to get a piece of writing for their first job. People are being given the opportunity to get support and to draw attention to their work, and some of these projects at Karolina Fund have done so much more than the things people were asking for, the most remarkable, and all of them. So we don't have to worry about it so much. I don't see the future where only rich artists because artists are creative people and there are others who want to work with artists who are creative business people, so I'm not worried about it. I think that the people who wrote many of the solutions to authorial law are a little confused that art always finds a way to come about. It's just part of human nature.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u85	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Her Birgitta, Jónsdóttir Jóns, for her speech and for Pirata's introduction in this discussion. I have to admit that although I was here in the hall and was too late to protest, I was surprised to learn that there are three primes to be discussed here, not because they don't hear each other, but because it's difficult to distinguish them from each other in the discussion. What I noticed at night. A senator who drew my attention was at ease. A senator used the term "netmates " to be used by e·piʹ. It tells us a little bit about how old and developed the Internet is already. It reminds us that it is totally out of date to ignore it, we are always talking about some other solution, but it must not be overlooked. The reason I mention this is that I was at a meeting by the Norwegian Association, which held a conference for its 50th birthday in April. There was an introduction to the future and to the technology that came, even to the contrary. A Danish woman, Lene Andersen, a writer, explained in the first place the problems of our society today and therefore the councils and members of Congress how little they know on the Internet, its possibilities, and its opportunities, what happens there, and how the world is actually being shaped. I'd like to hear a thought. It's for a senator. Lene also had the theory of policies, including political policies, and evolution at any given time might be the main shape of technological advances, today from the Internet, previous industrial revolution, and then we can go back to the tools used during the Stone Age. It is beginning to realize that this is often the case, not the way humans always do, but the way we feel about direction and currents and control them. So the question is, How do we cooperate with this trend? We may have some effect on it, but we need to acknowledge it and make use of it. In this context, I'd like to ask you why. A senator on the discussion that she mentioned about new business models, which are new solutions to hold and protect writers in some way: How can we get the information when discussing this subject on the committee? [[The president calls.]] Who are we looking for? Where do we get that information to be more informed in our discussion?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u86	President. I thank both the question and the meditation that I think is very important and is the whole thing. You've certainly been lucky to have what you've got. paritaprevir Helgi Drafn Gunnarsson of the Committee who will probably draw from her fountain of wisdom in this series, but there are also a lot of information on the Internet, and I'm willing to take up a list of them. I found great interviews with the artists I was naming, Gaiman Gaiman, Doctorow Doctorow, and others who are artists who've been working for reforms on authorual rights. There was a time when Paulo Coelho, who wrote the Afflict and is known here, was at the time of Pirate Bay, supported Pirate Bay because he understood the importance of having some place where data was shared, and these are not just movies. There I can find all kinds of data that have been installed so that I can access them when I want to go to one place and look into a huge database. Then you can often find very good documentarys that are in the so - called "public domain's" or for the general public. In terms of legal procedures, I have been so fortunate that I have had the opportunity to meet foreign senators to discuss the matter and, in particular, what is involved in the privacy and information rights of the digital worlds and have also been at conferences on authorual, so-called Špyrright camps, etc. People are thirsty, and there will certainly be other opportunities to instruct members of the council about what is happening and what they need to be aware of in order to accept, in terms of legalization, in contrast to the new times.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u87	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The elder's answer is looking forward to getting more information and guidance on how we can handle this matter. I think it is clear from what has been discussed in the discussion that the matter will not be thrown through the council in a short time. It takes a lot of discussion, and especially what we are ready to do with new ideas. What is it in the outside frame that binds us there? Although in other ways, for example, there are some things that are exciting to consider as well. Maintenance of published material. Now, there has been a tendency to try to preserve published material, all editions must be stored in a certain number of copies and brought into a National Archives. What about all the material that's creating on the Internet and it's only there? There is a question. I share the opinion that happened before. Gunnarsson I don't see the evidence in the modern environment that it is extended to 70 years after death. Then there are repairs to offenses that you just need to realize. If we have laws and rules, we need to be some kind of paradox. What should be the response to offenses? How do we create a setting for this? But there's one concept there that's a little bit fun, and I think I've got it figured out by the time I read the bill in part, that's a non-discreet piece of work to show you. It is stated that the bill covers public libraries, educational libraries, museums, archives, the maintenance institutions of films and audio recordings, which arrive at the end of the list, by permission of Presidents, and by radio stations that provide public services established in the European Economic Areas, in the United States, at the end of the list. Do you see what this means? Does this just mean State Radio? What does it mean for all the other radio stations, to perform public service? It's a bit of a fun thing to find the definition of this. I can't give it to her myself, so I'll throw this question to the point. A senator, perhaps primarily to minister, whether he can answer this question, and we are given an explanation of what is meant. This is where the whole European Union is. [[The president calls.]] Is that just the BBC or what? This illustrates the natural conditions and the environment in which we live.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u88	President. I hadn't seen it yet, but it's a very hairy arrangement, and I'm sure those who run private stations wouldn't be happy to be excluded. It's very important to review this, and I'm very glad we're taking this law, but I need to see if there's a reason to fix it. I'm a little worried about this, if that's true. has been looked up in this database and found that it is an orphan, so why can't everyone just use it? There are all these things that actually need to take a deeper discussion about. I met that man well, and a former minister of education and what. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter also met a man who has a great ambition and is working to create a modern Alexandrian library on the Internet and has been copying all kinds of material, not only books but also videos, news and so on. It's very important, and I've been very interested in this since I started online, the first thing I did online was to create art, and I published my poems on the Internet in 1995. It opened a whole new world. Before the so-called "Cretic Commons" sign, I had just put in that everyone could use my work if they could remember to use my name and not use the material to make money from it, but they could use it. It's a bit of a block that was in the early days of the network and has continued to exist and is important. Since then, I have been worried about it for decades and have pointed out that we must somehow preserve material online, someone has to be careful to make a copy of the whole online stuff, for example. The art. For example, I had the first digital gallery in Iceland for the Apple Emulator, so one day it was gone. [[The president calls.]] This is something that needs to be handled.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u89	Mr. President. It has been a fine discussion that has been conducted here on these three basics, and I feel really convinced that after listening to those who have spoken here, both the highest. Minister and minister. Councilmen, it is important that we take time to handle these matters well, but at the same time it's a little bloody, let's say how slow the development of the author's penance has been compared to the development of technology. At the same time that I feel it is important that we take time at the council to review these matters, though, as the highest. The minister said before, that the guiding principle is to have this easily understood, incontrovertible, and in human language, now that this is a technical debate, and I know that there will be a lot of discussion about these matters. A top-of-the-art Board of Education. But to put it in context, these are steps on a road that began here quite a while ago. When I was serving the Ministry of Education, I proposed a bill, reminding me of 2010, which was to be the first stage of a series of authorships, from 1972 to modern times. The plan was to complete this project over three years, but it did not work out, including a lack of financial resources and a lack of time. In some ways, we in these cases are following our tails, for technology is more rapid than the law frame, and it has, of course, transformed human association with the work that is under the authorly and out of it, has, of course, developed a huge debate of which entire political movements have been formed, such as the global Pirate movement, but also other movements that are shrubs of the assigned roots, the phantettef-ennial movement, the ESFries Software, which is primarily about software and so on. We may not always be dealing with the exact same issues or the exact same approach depending on the subjects. So I am of this opinion, and I think it is very important that artists, for example, and that is what we have been primarily discussing here, can survive their art, not just by being strong from the government that I really support. But it is also important that they can sell their work and have a measure of protection. However, it is not to the end that, as we have seen evolution in the music world, those who are primarily involved in the publishing work are making a profit. There we find ourselves in a particular problem where the middle person sort of takes to heart what comes into the box, but in contrast, we find that artists are acting in a very different way in this interaction - free society, which is in part coming into existence on the Internet, where men market their own work and promote themselves. It also creates problems, and a owner works to form with such an intermediate, in a publication, I know that the intermediate members also have an important role. What I have found, and the discussion has actually been the same, because this is, of course, two implementations of directives, that in the European Union, the debate has been that because technology has evolved rapidly, the illegal benefits have been much simpler than the legal advantages. While legal options are complex and difficult, people of course do not choose the legal option, and then I am witnessing to download movies, music, and such. But what has also happened is that man's level of consciousness has been transformed along with technological advancement. This is only natural. I think it's one of those big subjects that we're supposed to wonder who is exactly the level of the young generation's consciousness on the fossil record, what people's experiences are about somehow, that it's only natural that they can walk through the Internet into arts without paying for them. Do we not have to respond in some way? Because to some extent, I feel like we are, like, cot. Councilmen who have spoken before mentioned the process of dealing with a trend far faster than the level of law. As I mentioned earlier, people with conflicting views on these matters depend on what they are discussing. I took as an example the arts, but I have also been aware that mental protection can go too far. I would like to mention, for example, patents that are new to blackmail poorer people in the poorer parts of the world, for example, the patents of seeds and other such, where corporations directly take over the agriculture in those areas. We can talk about brain rights in the computer sector, and I mentioned the movement on the area where the aim has just been to create free software so that everyone can use software because it's about sharing knowledge and it all of us should have access to without regard for the economy. I can agree with this. I find in these subjects a slightly different set of standards when we're discussing it, we can say a patent of knowledge and, on the other hand, permanence of some creation centered on the livelihood of what makes it possible. There's some ballerman we need to find between here when we move it to a level between finding fair ways in the arrangement. Like what? Senators may hear me talking more about the big lines than just those bills. I want to reiterate what I said at the beginning of my speech that at the same time I think it's important that we update this law, I also believe that it is important that the members of the council recognize the content of these cases and take time to examine them. I think it is also important that we discuss these matters in the political arena, since there is an enormous figure. The talk may have been largely overlooked by court officials in the arts, by the lawyers who are expert on authors and amateurs on these matters. She may not have reached the general flight she has to catch. So I think it is also our project here to promote discussion on these matters because this is and will concern us very much, both in a world that is becoming ever more technical, but also in a society like ours, which I hope will build more and more on our intelligence. I think it's really important that we expand this general conversation. In itself, I will not extend the discussion more than I expect. The General and Education Committee will have time to review these matters and then discuss with the rest of us here at the Hall of Congress in good shit.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u90	A respectable president. I'd like to have a word with what. A senator on something she mentioned that I found interesting, which is the role of the middle team, e.g. in the distribution of music. It has often been noted here that the technology we now possess or exist makes it possible that pathways previously excluded for musicians who are taking their first steps to communicate their contents are anything but what they once had to do when they had to negotiate with the record companies. At the same time, the skills needed to know the available distribution routes can also become more specialized as time passes. Then I am thinking not only of the musicians who are taking their first step but of those who are starting with their career. One is to be a good musician, either a songwriter or a musical instrument, and it is another to have knowledge and skills in the means of distribution. Can't we just as likely hope that it will be the same old development as that of publishing companies, just in another form, going to be there? Then comes up what we've been discussing here before: How do we make sure that the produce doesn't just come to those who run them companies like we see happening right now around a company like Spotify, but do fair things to the artists who sell their skills and abilities? I also wanted to say about young people and their authorship that it is quite true here that they are changing the environment that turns toward distribution of fossilized material, but the thought is still underlying that the artist or author who makes material is correct. [[The president calls.]] Although he may change as a change, that is why such a right must be there, making sure that, for example, young people have an understanding of that right. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u91	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the counter-sponsore. As for the second thing, it's a question I made earlier. We of the older generation have this idea of the underlying right of authorship, but I'm not sure that this idea is just as alive in the minds of younger generations, i.e. That's how it's generally on the table. Although this term has been widely introduced, it has often been done in a very negative way. For example, when you rent a picture legally, you sit under a very long advertisement that says: "You won't steal a car, but you're going to steal a movie. - You get angry and you're like: "I wish I had taken this film illegal so I wouldn't have to listen to these shorts, I sit here and I've already paid 750 bucks." On TV at my house for watching this. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] To be honest, this is not a positive way to arouse awareness of a writer's condition. Perhaps the problem with the institution that has been dealing with this has not been sufficiently positive. This has largely been meant to bring some youths to court and fine them on a huge amount of money, instead of trying to take it in a pro something else. As for the middle team, I'll agree with the highest. Minister. I must say, sometimes by my own experience and by my own experience, I have a role, by editors, artistic assistance, and so forth. Of course, there is a bad trend when the intermediate teams begin to take more of what comes to the arts, basically the creations of artists themselves. What are we going to do when we see a new intermediate growing up like the highest. A minister points to, i.e. in the market and in the rest of the world, in these new times? [[The president calls.]] An excellent example is set by artists who do all of this themselves and achieve tremendous results. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The answer is, I don't have a patent solution in this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u92	A respectable president. I can say with what. A senator to the point of the ad is too long. This is especially true when clergymen reproach those who attend church because others do not show up. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I'd like to say about the middle, which I find very interesting, that it's right as a matter of course. A senator says, there can be a great deal of expertise in which it is relevant to editors and other such things and also knows how to communicate. At the same time, however, the intermediate, as we know in the traditional publishing companies, is also controlling the demand and the supply. For example, the algorithms that depend on Spotify are such that a person chooses a particular song, and other options reveal what it is possible to choose afterward - the company is very much in control of what the consumer is doing and is likely to choose for itself. This, of course, involves a great deal of power. As soon as we're talking about all the freedoms the Internet makes, we can't overlook these things because not everyone can do everything. The distribution is so large that it is absolutely certain that there will be some compression so that consumers will have one place or several places to go. Those who control it have a lot to do with it and, in fact, a lot of control. Such companies can grow much bigger and more powerful than traditional publishing companies. When we consider the laws and developments that will be on this market, we are likely to reflect on them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u93	Mr. President. V.E.G. A minister has some rights, but I'm afraid this is the ideologies that are sometimes called capitalism and the rulers of that country. These are the companies who operate in some way in this way in order to benefit from everything. I'm glad to hear the highest. The minister expresses concern for this situation. This is exactly what these companies are doing. They are primate arts that benefit from this system, exactly as we generally experience on social media that suddenly appears to be websites, if you once visit a Web site, they will appear next on your Facebook page and introduce you to a new and attractive offer, and you just don't get rid of it from there because it's about to be on the market. True, there are some who try to master their freedom on the Internet, and most for profit, but some are in order to get power for something else. That's what's at the top. A minister would call it a profit. This is the same thing that has been criticized before, when technology was smaller, when radio - playing games were severely criticized because it was determined that music could be played at certain radio stations, and some things were not played there, and other things were played that highlight the need for public radios in which there is no such activity. This may be even more serious about what is going on in some of the companies involved, i.e. - The materials. - Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u94	A respectable president. I thank you for the lively and extensive discussion taking place. I wanted to ask you what. A senator only into the role of the middle forces, which he and the highest. Ministers have been talking here. Well, it's been that way through the past, anyway, in the music sector, that people have at times blamed the intermediate people, i.e. The companies, first of all, for the management of the market by directing who get contracts, who are worth the money to be published, and the story says that they took the highest profit, they came to a game when the market was built so that they needed a lot of work to distribute materials, it took real materials, CDs, albums, and cabsets, it was substance cost, special knowledge, and, of course, access to markets. This is to my mind that technology at this time did not provide information to the same extent as now. Now we're worried about these middle people, i.e. that they will have the same positions as the ones that start running the market. First, I would suggest what. A senator that would never exceed the expertise of such a government, provided the Internet remains free and open and anyone can intervene in the market, acquire this knowledge. For example, I learned to program online because it's free, and you can train at home and men do it. Of course, it is also possible to go to school, but that is not necessary. I didn't have to ask anyone about permission to learn programming, I just did. I would expect Internet distribution agents to gain this knowledge on their own. Since this went into the question of capitalism and that sort of thing, I'd like to ask myself why. A senator: Is there in itself any reason that the middleman will be paid as long as he is paid for a real service, for providing some real value in a competitive environment? [[The president calls.]] [[In a competitive environment.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u95	Mr. President. No, there is nothing wrong, as I said before, that the intermediate teams exist because they often have a very important role. You can't expect everyone to know everything. That's just the community we live in, it's complicated, and people have different expertise. A person who is good at making music is not necessarily good at marketing it or promoting it in this new technological world. If the middleman is good at doing that service, there is, of course, nothing wrong with it, no more than in the physical world. But what I've rolled up without being molded into this particular thing in my mind is that you see in Internet worlds like real worlds, because they're first, have a lot of knowledge, certainly knowledge that is available to all, and it also shows that because money is collected, it draws more money. So we can ask ourselves, " How easy is it to break in when some people are finished, we can say, in some business, to form an Internet music company, how easy it is to break into that sector? ' Although we call it a competitive environment, we can only see how it has worked so far in real life, e.g. When Rockefeller took over and always set up gas stations against new gas stations, they got kicked out of business. Of course, there are the same laws that apply there and elsewhere. Of course, the underlying situation will be fine, i.e. Knowledge must be available to all, and it must be free of charge. There must be an opportunity for people to get into this market. There is nothing wrong with the interracials being paid as long as they are in any relative proportion to their service.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u96	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. In fact, I have to say that I share the same concerns about the fact that only people in the market can control themselves. Unfortunately, it seems a little small, but hopefully it will be easier to break it up on the Internet than in other places because it does not necessarily have to start at that time. Anyone can install a web system and begin spreading something or have some kind of service, make this just fun of himself today. But you don't start a gas station for fun; it takes a lot of investment. According to this, it is worth it to point out that when we talk about rent on the Internet, we talk more or less about Netflix and if we talk about music, they talk more or less about Spotify, so there's certainly reason to keep this in mind when we talk about a competitive market, because then, of course, it's time to be competitive. They need to make sure they are. That's all I'm going to do in answer to. But I wanted to ask. A senator, otherwise because she went on to an interesting field, which is a young generation's idea of permanence. In general, the Internet does not have to be paid unless you are looking specifically for something that costs money and is difficult to access except by going into certain pages packed with pornography advertisements and God knows what, or you're paying for it. You go to YouTube and you find entertainment, you find CollegeHumor, you even find a lecture from Stanford. I dedicated myself to some physics the other day with Leonard Susskind from Stanford University, totally free on YouTube. This must make it more difficult for people to realize what really happens to writers and what is not. It was even for me years ago when I came across a physics lecture at YouTube, which was named Physics for Future Presidents, a little funny to be a politician now after I had listened to them, but then I found that after seeing all that they had nothing to be there. It became evident when I thanked the lecturer for his wonderful lecture. It can be very difficult to predict in advance when you run into something online, whether it is authorized or not. I wonder what. A senator has some perspective on how to deal with this problem. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u97	Mr. President. I thank the senator for this comment that I love very much. It has to do with another subject that I've been very interested in and that I've been involved in the aspects of the education system in a changed world, i.e. The fact that more knowledge than ever before is available at no time by Google than it has been said in Icelandic language, you only Google, and some google not well enough, but everyone knows it. What I think is very important that we do within the educational system is to train the young generation to distinguish between what information should be taken into account, the sources of trust, that not necessarily everything on the Internet is true. That's at least In some way my experience, for when the Internet was becoming a common knowledge host of young people, and I was still teaching them, people almost took it because it was online then they had to be the truth. One thing that really matters more than ever before is information. One of the reasons for our new primary study logs that we were on when I was in the Ministry of Education and Culture was just looking at reading from the wide range of understanding. It is so important that people are able to distinguish different information. It may also have something to do with the penance, i.e. that we realize this and realize that some material on the Internet may be authenticated. We're all using it like a dog. A senator points out, and it can be very difficult to discern when material is under the title of an author's right. I put it into my mind, as it were, to film science, that research and science supported by public funds are available to all. This is part of what Ranni has been doing when public research granting him. There is also the strength to ensure the delivery of the results into the open-label bioavailability for all. This must be the nature of the research that we are strengthening through public funds that they are available to all and published as such. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Of course, that is the course we should take when looking at things that the public really pay for. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u98	Mr. President. I'd like to start by looking at the big picture of the writer's pregnancy. In view of the information technology we've been talking about today, the Piratars want to reevaluate the authors, not his deduction. If this is a good thing to do, i.e. Apply what people are talking about all over the world, including in the international trading conference, that the right must be found between the authors' unions and the authors' unions, it will mean far more prosperity for all. On the other hand, if the review is not professionally conducted, we can unwittingly set up a range of obstacles that limit the primary objective of mental rights, which are evolution and innovation, as explained in the report of the International Business Conference on Tremendative Systems, Internet and Shared Society. If we don't fit this balance in reviewing authorly, not fixing the imbalance that has come and finding the new ball because of information technology, we may find ourselves at great cost. It is vital, therefore, that all parties come to the table and we come up with a solution that can be accepted by everyone. One of the solutions we need to find has to do with legitimate payment. How will you apply in the online world of old rules to ensure that authors will receive their due fee? If everything is connected and you can pick up the material in an instant and you plan to enforce the rules after the old route, you need to censor the entire Internet. Start by spying on all Internet traffic and censoring the Internet. I think most people are beginning to realize that we're not ready to go in that way of complying with the rules. And then the question is: Is it necessary to ensure that the aim, which is that author - owner's right payment for creating the material that can be bought and sold? What is the situation with the development of technology now? As mentioned in this discussion, various business models have begun to rush to bed, which have begun to solve this problem. The free market is beginning to solve the major problem, to some extent, depending on the type of authorly established material involved. The most advanced are natural computer producers, who are involved in this digital business. They have taken various steps. For example, on iPads you have to pay yourself to play games and there's a slightly more stable environment, people playing with others, like in the game that CCP makes, Eve Online. Other players can be played, and as a result, you have to go into the world, where the producers have it. Another video computer producer, Steam, makes all the opportunities and access to games so easily comfortable and user-friendly that people are ready to buy and store the games, and they keep their arms around everything. The latest thing I heard was even those who are still in the business of buying CDs or those who download programs and store them on their computer and are just playing, can't take it easy because these playmakers have found a new way. They're making up their games all the time. You're always playing an old edition, and you have to go back to the game every day or every other day and put it up and people don't bother. It is, therefore, much easier to get the game and always get an upgrade. This may be the natural practice of video games. Another is the music industry. That's where we get a good look at it, and maybe we're gonna reveal something in one of the bills we're talking about, i.e. No. 702, review of authorial, private rights of authors and contracts. The major battle lines, when it comes to what artists will be paid for their jobs and how they will be paid, are no longer drawn between the writers, writers' unions, such as STEF and such, and those who download illegal material because, for example, they are now a member of a task force. Spotify. According to a study in Norway conducted in 2008◯2012, it was completed three years ago, an illegal download of music during this period was reduced by 82.5%. Same here, says the highest. Secretary of education. So the big battle line is the words we see in this bill to make sure that the larger groups, which become overly large and powerful, will make sure that the artists are paid. Now that's the main front line. No longer because people are stealing the material illegally on the Internet. The footage industry is shorter than it has started, but Netflix has started and so has it. It's just a different industry, you don't often look at the same footage as you listen to the same song, but it's still going to happen there. They're finding new business models. So this is happening, so important when we are going to reexamine the author's insistence to step to the ground, because the free market is solving the problem of paying the head of the house. We do not have to take the road to sacrifice privacy and sacrifice the freedom of information, but it will be sacrificed if we are to secure the right authors along the old route, the old arrangement. It is of utmost importance that we take our steps carefully to the earth, not wasting time, and putting in laws and regulations that become unnecessary, absolutely unnecessary, after very short periods of time, but still remain in the books. So we must be very careful with all this work. These three bills are now very late, but we need to be very careful with them on the committee, and it would be good if you could get much headlines and continue working on them this summer. Pirats are offered to help. We must find a balance between the writers and the consumers, and as mentioned earlier, everyone is beginning to realize it, the International Business Organization and others, finding a new balance so that we can live together and not have to sacrifice our civil rights in order to achieve these vital goals. Now we've been talking about writers' unions and how all new business models and sharing economys are changing the landscape completely. If we're going into a bigger context, which is fun, then we can look at the shared economy. In that case, you have some sort ofnetworks, or some sort of album form, or - I need some Icelandic word for it -- one field, infectures, algorithms, and interfaces such as, for example. Airbnb, in the market of hotel drivers - or not hotel drivers, can rent houses there. The same is true of Uber, some of whom want to move from place to place, and others want to be transferred. Then there's the financing. I was at a very interesting conference by the weekend, Point Zero, in the Old Movie. The first lecturer spoke of how you can hook up with those who have money and those who need funding in their innovations and not just innovations, but for all the money chain, since you start with a innovation company and go into the market and expand your business. Instead of traditional means of entering new routes that directly connect the one who needs money and who wants to finance, instead of going through all this infidelism, to have to go to the bank and borrow and all that. So it's all happening. The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson. A senator named Pirata pointed to these avenues of financing. This is happening, too. Then we can come back to the right side of it. The technology is here to be, and this shared economy will only grow, I'm going to discuss it right after, I'm going to finish that thought first. Hv. A member of the Assembly of Hrafn Gunnarsson pointed out ways to finance various projects, they are becoming easier. It's all coming along, so people are not just finding better ways to get paid for the fossilized material but finding new financing methods, such as. Kickstarter, etc. Then people are paid in advance to produce material that they then provide to others on specific terms that people are ready to take. As a result, creation's financing of art is becoming easier at the same time than technology in order to make it more inexpensive. People may be present in their computer microphones and more, and they can buy a small studio with far more quality than what costing tens of millions a few years ago, and then it is the natural access to the client through the Internet. V.E.G. Education minister mentioned earlier that sales on CDs and such items would decrease. I read a report from London School of Economics, where this is precisely pointed out. The sales fall apart in 2004, then evenly, but they continue to fall from 2008 to 2011. At the same time, however, income flows due to concerts up. At the same time, the Internet is growing naturally, but this stops 2011, it's been four years. We know what's happened over the last four years about network. But if we just look at the line, the overall income of the music industry has not been going down, they have been the same. So people spend the same money on music as they used to, they just do it somewhere else. It is uncomfortable for those who have established their own business models on old terms, and then, of course, the pressure on politicians is to react. However, we are fortunately in our location now that we have begun to realize that if we are going to follow these rules, we will sacrifice our privacy and rights of information, which means research on the Internet and Internet tours. I think most people have come to the conclusion that we are not supposed to go that way. We are to find the right ballerman, and we must take care to get to the earth while the free effort is to find solutions to this problem. I'd also like to add that it doesn't matter if they're left or right in politics, e.g. Cato Institute, an established institution, pointed to this as well, that we need to reevaluate the authors in this regard. So it's creating a lot of convergence on this subject. If we reexamine the large context of the shared economy, so I just shoot it in here, then Drucker points out that in the big technical revolutions that have become the last 500 years, the printing revolution, the industrial revolution, and now the information technology revolution, the first 50 years are to do the same things but only faster and cheap. Then comes the revolution, which is where we are now. Can you imagine the revolution of connected directly between people without the middlemen? Then there is only one stipplet form, one acratic religion, where a person can be connected to the one who makes the value and the person who partakes of the valuable things. This is happening in most industry, at least in production. It's important to us as politicians and everyone who's interested in the big context - maybe we politicians aren't much at seeing the big context, we're so often trapped in terms and like this, but it's important for politicians to figure this out, just go back and watch the big picture and see what's going to happen eight years, twelve years, 20 years into the future. All the parts that link service, product, and value directly to the person who eats it, accepts it, and buys it, and then the legal process. We are, for example. The Uber is not covered in any of the legal procedures involved in transport. They hadn't taken the flight yet. At the end, I just want to remind you that no industrialized person will be unmoved, everyone's going to be decrepitated. There are some princes who are important to me that I learned at the convention I attended before the weekend, Point Zero. One important factor is the cost of making a wrong decision. It's not a lot of cost to make the wrong decision when you're watching YouTube, but if you make the wrong decision when you invest, it's a big cost. Then there is the cost of starting with an assignment. It affects whether or not you are ready to make the production of objects. The cost is down, the 3D printers are coming in, so the whole manufacturing industry will change. The cost of renting out your home is down because it is a system where trust can be formed. This is something we need to keep in mind in all our work at the Council. It's coming in, it's just strong and strong. Authorual review is only the first step, but we need to be very aware of this and take very carefully to earth to find the right balance. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u99	A respectable president. I think we're really on the same page, me and him. A senator, as far as it is concerned that it is the very market and market elements that solve such issues and the more complex things they are, the more important it is that the market has plenty of time to solve them, to activate the ideas and knowledge of millions of people in order to solve such problems. They will not be released from above. The solution comes from the market itself. What's going on here, that's what I'm talking about. A senator mentioned and I find it interesting, as it were, the time between the changes in technology and then, in effect, has worked, so to speak, until the models have arrived. We know this from other major technological revolutions, e.g. Like when the power came. All economic statistics show that it was a bit long, if I recall a few decades, from the time it was created and until we saw its consequences in improved production and economic recovery, more production, because of the manufacturing processes and factories, etc. was then modified and built on the basis of this new technology. Of course, the same is happening to us now, we are at the time where that move takes place. This means that there is a problem for the artists who are working today. I'm not quite sure that movie like that. A senator described from Britain as necessarily the same for us, on our small market. However, this has been examined regarding the download of music in Iceland and has been reduced because these models have come. I completely agree with the senator that there is a need for a careful return to the earth. My opinion is that none of the elements we're discussing are causing any harm in this regard, but it's very important that we do so. A committee that handled the matter reflected the views we are discussing, so that there is nothing that makes us attached somewhere or reduces the potential of the market to produce new models. The thought of the primary projection is that of sharpening and clarifying. It is also an essential foundation for the market to work as a clear law code. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Working on the law is always much more difficult for the market.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u100	Mr. President. In the initials that lie before us now, the devil hides himself in the details. That is why it is so important that we do not put ourselves in an accident, in some sort of obstacle, which, in turn, may result in an accursed problem, which interests may arise around, and may be difficult to eliminate, etc., and will simply cause a great deal of damage. The key elements in this issue are 702, of authors' exclusive rights and contracts. Are we starting to attach artists to the fact that others can negotiate for them without being able to reveal it? Or is everyone being brought together, and can they tell us if they want to? It looks like it to me, but I'm not quite sure. We have to be careful not to put artists in something. We'll see where the lines of battle are today, men trying with these laws to respond to the size of Spotify and other sectors. But Spotify makes deals with the big parties who own the brain rights. It's still in those contracts. One reason why artists receive so little is that the old contracts still have a wide variety of factors, so the big middle members that were taken all the way back to themselves, while the artists get nothing. In the future, if the artists are free, they can hold all the value chain, except for the percentage taken by Spotify. It's one of the big scenes there. It's really important that we sit tight about this. We'll need the reviews, we'll be fine with them this summer, and we'll be doing this professionally for the next fall, back in line. It is, for example, about the length of the time of recordings. If the aim of a mental right is to expand development and advance development and innovation, as expressed in a report by the International Business Agency, or is generally agreed, to change 50 years after the death of authors to 70 years after the death of authors, it will not contribute to evolution or innovation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's natural acorpoiticism.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u101	A respectable president. I think there's a lot to it. A senator may have mentioned, this may have become more a question about the switch between the party and those who distribute and then the artists themselves. It's an old problem we know, pull between the publishers of the old system and the artists themselves. It has become a well - known theme and quite ready for it to continue. It is because, as I mentioned earlier, although the new technology gives humans the opportunity, especially those who are starting, to avoid contracts and to be able to spread their music and draw attention to themselves, if we take the music again as an example, there are, in contrast, limits to what humans can do for themselves, both because of their knowledge and the way this world is built up. So it is likely that it is just those who gather this, like Spotify and others, who get and achieve quite a lot of power, and will replace the traditional publishing companies. I'm sure it's a little different than what we're talking about here, but I'm sure that's what we're looking at. I think the main thing in this, and what I think is in the discussion, that it is quite and should be quite possible to find some sort of average way or line between the civil rights, i.e. The rights to private life and such, the freedom to communicate, and, on the other hand, to do what is necessary to ensure that the writer's union is active by some means, although it does not necessarily have the same way as it has always been, but that it is active to the artists, the owners of such material, get fair payment for their work. We want it to be that way, it's supposed to be like that, and it's really necessary, because if not, it's going to reduce that. I hope two things happen with these bills. On the one hand, there will be more discussion on this important subject. I feel that the discussion here has been very helpful without my going to give the talks at the council, but it has at least been very helpful to me. Besides, I hope that these matters will be complete as soon as possible, although only at the pace of the council. But I call attention to the fact that one of the issues is the implementation of an EU directive which we have passed over dates and is something to consider in the case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u102	Mr. President. For being past the date of the implementation of the directive, it is not the first time we accidentally ask only after the induction. There are many overexcited issues that we take care of and many of the subjects that are waiting for us to do so. I don't think it's a big harm if this case waits until the fall, including... in view of being talking about extending the authorly of a job i.e. Authorly written after the death of the author, from 50 years to 70 years after the death of the author. So I don't think people are going to turn around in the grave just because they have to wait until the fall. [[Up top, they're dead.]] Exactly, they're dead, that's what you see. This is nothing more than a sicorpoticism, this is the Walt Disney or the Mikka Mouse thing, i.e. After the author's death, Walt Disney, is a patent on Mickey Mouse and so is still there. You've been joking about how long you're gonna write down, that it's gonna be the years since Walt Disney died plus one year. It will always be extended to writers' rights, all the way while media companies west of the ocean have the authority they have. They're losing it, of course Google is here, etc. But whenever such a transition occurs, when it becomes a technical revolution, it is as if Luther could never have started unless the princes of Germany supported him. They wanted to get the gold from the Catholic Church and to kick the rousing power away. This revolution is supported, among other things, by Google, not necessarily by the emancipation device but by the information fraud, it is supported by Google and large sources there, and then it is natural for all of these newnetwork, Uber, Airbnb, Amazono. fl. They're so big, so politicians, this information technology revolution has an excessive financial advantage behind them. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So we'll always have...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u103	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the talk I listened to with interest, I know why. A senator feels strongly about these matters. He mentioned something interesting to me when he spoke of how this technology is being handled in a certain way and referred to electronic games and other things; video games have long ago become something far more important than children and young people like me when I was in that place in life, a secondary issue. But I wanted to ask him another question. As I understand the problem, the biggest problem is that humans have very expensive productions in agreement. Those who produce money don't consider it fair to be paid for their jobs, and then I'm especially referring to films. Now that's the fact, and I think Iceland and I are particularly bad at it, that there's a lot of download when it comes to such factors. At least I don't know about any technological changes or solutions that have prevented it. Of course, this is of utmost importance, for it is the property of artists and manufacturers who produce such products. And they can say, "It doesn't matter, these great ones. Who feels sorry for them?" But they also work at the things that are starting and are getting their feet started. It tells itself that failure to pay for that production results in negative consequences. I want to ask you why. A senator will see if he can figure it out. I hope we agree that it's unfair that people don't get paid for what they've already made, and it's just gonna end up in a really bad place if it goes on.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u104	Mr. President. Every time there's a industrial revolution like this, it means discomfort, it means that you have to find new business models, etc. This has occurred in every technological revolution. The definition of the revolution is that it's happening so fast, it's the revolution, it's going to be so fast. The major producers are still successful in financing themselves, but they are, like a whale. A senator mentioned, perhaps with the strongest nerves or sympathy, may be just those little or intermediate ones. As I mentioned in my talk that when it comes to the footage, they haven't quite found the way there yet, but they've started. One thing is that along with this technological development, the cost of equipment, equipment, etc. has fallen. Another is the fact that men have begun to use Kickstartter, for example Iron Sky, reminds me of something called a "Kickstarter funded." You've started sending out a ◯teazer-tailer to Kickstartter, where they start making an inexpensive ◯tralier in the photograph such as 'highlightsnows', the process that has been used for production in the series, that is, first, they make one factor, and then they try to sell it. You've started doing this with the movies, creating the carpetman in the movie first, seeing who's interested in financing it. Is this the problem of the Icelandic filmmakers today? I don't know. In a limited way. There's obviously a group that doesn't come out well right now, but they'll figure it out. I won't find all the solutions to this, clearly not. I just watch what's going on now and what's been going on and how it's developing. Evolution is all in the process of finding new ways to finance things and new ways to produce things in a more inexpensive way and new ways to get paid for the footage, even though it is available illegally on the Internet.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u105	A respectable president. I see - and now I direct words to a respectable president - at what. A senator and piranha are being treated in a special way. I've been scolded here for saying the Daily Telegraph in a speech chair, and very often when I get a red light, the bell starts. Hv. A senator hardly spoke Icelandic. It was an Icelandic word that went the longest red, and it was not moving at the highest level. President. But it's this way, some things don't match. Of course, it is very desirable, good and good that humans can find solutions, and we hope they will. But I think it matters that we tell them that it's not okay to download jobs, we can't tell whether the manufacturer is rich or poor, good or bad, of course it's not right. It is important that we give them a message to our young ones and to all that it is not right to do so in this way. I want to know what it is. A senator doesn't agree with me in that. It's like video games, there's a lot of ways to do that. In this case it's like this, so we talk about it, I know a lot of examples that people put everything they have to make pictures and other things like that, and not much of the time to go wrong. This product, this production, without paying for it, is a natural disaster. That's perfectly obvious. And although companies are big, many people work for those who already have a lot of money, I think they're important too. I don't know what the best solution is, but of course, the free market and technology will solve a lot of problems, but we have to tell them it's not okay. Of course, it's not okay to take these things from the artists and producers, it's their job, it doesn't have to be artists, it can be just an ordinary person.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u106	President. It doesn't matter what I preach or what I do. A senator preaches what is not right with these factors. When does it hold what? A senator that it worked to say such things to people? Let me just point out psychology, let me tell you why I think it doesn't matter. They've tried, they've been trying to preach, but it hasn't worked. On the other hand, what works is new business models like I've been calling here, it works. We can shout out loud about how immoral this is. It doesn't change the case. A study was conducted after the collapse, where men were so surprised at how to shop with papers and, in effect, knowing that they were cheating and selling bad papers, how all of this could happen. The result was - they got people to do a test - that as they did it faster, they got what they paid the most. If people received money directly, they were less likely to cheat. If they got paid in the form of a ticket they could then take on the next table and trade for money, it was more likely to cheat. What happened also was that people are more likely to cheat little, so small, it's just human nature. No matter what. The members of the council here are screaming at the shame it's not going to change that. That was a very thorough investigation. It's human nature. And people are also willing to cheat if society is cheating. So I think what we're supposed to focus on is - we should focus on yelling about what's immoral? [[Taken out on: right.]] I don't think that's going to work. I don't feel like doing things that don't work. The result is to direct people to ways that work. Piranha and I have been very busy pointing people into Netflix where they can pay for this, pointing out the people at Spotify, since they can pay for it instead of yelling about what's bad. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Let us try to bring people what is good, what works, and what results.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u107	A respectable president. I appreciate the discussion we've been discussing here. I think it has provided us with a wealth of insight into the complex and important aspects of life that are being discussed here. They are important for many things. They are important because of democratic development in the country, they are important to economic development in general, and they are of particular importance to art and the factors in which they live. Therefore, there are many reasons why we should be careful and understanding as many people as possible on this subject. I reiterate that the bills that are now discussed focus on the specific aspects of the subjects we discuss, but at the same time it is important to keep them in mind that they are linked to them and are part of the big film and therefore important to not do anything we're then on the scene, as noted in the discussion, and we're stuck with some arrangement that takes a long time to change great interests and have become connected with, etc. That is what we are facing. I reiterate my opinion here. I believe there is a way, between the two views mentioned here. On the one hand, about personal protection, the right protection, and on the other, the necessary and understandable requirement for those who have authoritarian material is that they receive fair payment for their material content. It is one of the pioneers who has created material. This has to be done in a reasonable, natural way. We see that the market, multimedia, acts as we can be sure it will. Millions of people around the world are looking for solutions every day because there is so much underlying and so much value in finding solutions in the open market economy and inexpensive technology systems. The solutions will come. I'm totally convinced of that. We're seeing sparks in these solutions. We have also begun to see fundamental changes in our economic systems, where solutions that are specifically thought out of these situations will be useful in so many areas where traditional business models back up or lose in competition. This is exactly what models have been discussed, which are widely known and twisted, e.g. driving a cab and stuff like that. It's obvious it's gonna take time. It doesn't spring in one day. I'm worried about what's going on with Icelandic artists. I have specifically considered the music. There has been a marked recession in the last two years or in the publication of Icelandic music, including music. published by the Watchtower Bible and Tract Society of New York, Inc. I believe there may be serious consequences if there is a very long time in this situation. We are now experiencing an amazing attendance by Icelandic artists, especially musicians, in foreign fields. It didn't just happen in the last two, three, four years. It is the offspring of evolution that has endured for a long time. I mentioned earlier that it was from the time when the music - school structure decision was made. It's dangerous if there's any tear in it, if it falls down because it's fragile, and it's not self-informed. Far from the default, Icelandic musicians attract as much attention abroad as they do. There are so many things that you need to come to that end. Therefore, I have a measure of concern, I confess, in regard to this time, because if it goes too long and the circumstances get too difficult, it can lead to the fall, that it will not come of the next group and of the next generation. Maybe it's going faster than I'm afraid. It is essential to believe that the market will solve this problem, since it is the most likely solution. Other solutions are not more likely. The idea that the state will come and make a business model is a very bad idea. The state may at least try to do what we are doing now, which is not some complete rethinking of this or a major change in policy, but to explain and sharpen certain factors, try to solve certain problems that we see and are obvious, as if to put the cultural element on a digital form that is one of the factors we are involved in the case here and the factors involved in dealing with contracts or those factors, though it is not a single or simple matter, there are several factors that need to be kept in mind. But I think it's an improvement to try to make it easier for, for example, those who are supplying material that has become old so that it is not an inexhaustible task to seek the approval of all who came there many years ago, that there are opportunities to make it easier for the public to access such materials. It is also designed to increase market activity so that materials that no one has access to sit down. It would be very nice for us to be able to access such material without any uncertainty or problems in the legislation. There are such factors. I would also like to draw attention, because we are discussing the legal state and the importance of privacy, but the rules of the legal state are not involved, either in this bill or one of them, the newly stated contact with the middleman who gives the service which, if there is, shutting down so that the person can defend himself. The fact that this is done is a key key in the state of justice that it is not simply stated in advance: This is a criminal case! - and then decide the penalty. So it is mandatory that government contact and call for viewpoints. I want to reiterate what I have said both in this discussion and in the past: I believe that in order to make this work and to integrate the views of this matter, civil rights, and the importance of the right of possession, which is part of the civil rights, this must be viewed as a unit. Then it will be wise to take some steps to take the legal course rather than the government. It is natural and safer for us to go that way, but it must, of course, be reasonably efficient without being left up to any decision taken, they must be taken in a natural way by the courts, not to some sort of self - payment system, but to the courts, and it can be handled fairly quickly. Thank you so much for this discussion. I'm sorry that there was a situation at the council that there were disagreements about taking these three matters together. My opinion was that they were corpses enough for me to suggest it. I reiterate that I believe that the president has the authority to make such a decision. However, it is better to agree if there is a disagreement, but I hope that those members of the council who have been at this discussion feel that it was of some use here today, even though it was with these merits.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u108	Mr. President. Yes, it has been helpful for this discussion today, clearly. But with regard to the future and the understanding of matters, there is something at a council meeting where people discuss the program and so on. A minister agrees that this is the process into the future. About these three cases. For orphans, a solution is clearly needed. But this may not be the best solution. Maybe there's a better solution. Why not take advantage of this opportunity? For the duration of the security recording, 50 years after the death of the authors to 70, I've already mentioned it, it's natural just a '-corporateism', it's Walt Disney, when he died plus one year, so pressure on it all the time. On private rights of authors, contracts. That's a really big deal. If there's any reason to guarantee the agreement between artists on some grounds, the big business groups that men may be learning a little better and better -- yes, we need to keep it on some basis, very good to have it on some grounds, but the major problem is that the middle team is still, the old intermediate members are still in this Šluppa-š. They're gathering most of the profits. It's natural. It's not gonna solve anything. Of course, they have the penal code. And for how long? Yeah, 50 years now it's being raised up to 70 years from the author's death and all that, you understand. No, I may be messing up over there, but okay. Very careful is needed in this regard. But about the Icelandic music industry. How are these bills especially helping to do so? If there's some space that's clearly present until the new business models start to work better and better for artists in Iceland, should the intervention be this law? Is that it? Or maybe some government budget to bridge the gap? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u109	A respectable president. First, about the length of the law, we're dealing with the European directive, so our space in this matter is extremely limited. We're in the inner market. This is part of the arrangement. You should keep that in mind. Then, with regard to the Icelandic music industry and changes in these bills, except for what is becoming a protection period in these intellectual acts, I am not sure that there are spectacular changes, at any rate in income options or the development of the revenues. In any case, it's my opinion that there's nothing to make a difference here, that's perhaps more of the law on the agreements that change access, as well as about orphans in general, that this is being explained and made easier. This facilitates bioavailability and, therefore, the use of a compound. It is the fundamental thought of these bills as well as the laying on of matters that are relevant to the laws of our neighbors, such as those of the northern countries of this region. That is what was put along with the guides of the former Supreme Court. At the beginning of this work, a minister, Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, suggested that a normal conversation or a relationship between the court and the court in neighboring lands would be arranged.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u110	Then, in the end, I'd like to ask a minister if he doesn't agree that if he's creating some new battle lines or making a stand through some organization for artists, musicians, to have a stronger contract against hosts like Spotify, etc., if we don't have to do it in a way that doesn't compromise the terms and freedom of society and professional artists, that they are not being locked up in some sort of legal institution which can then affect how artists practice their jobs and do their work. etc.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u111	A respectable president. On the contrary, I don't think they have the right to report. I think artists with regard to this factor are protected in other laws about freedom of the contract in general. I think they're for good reason. A senator had brought up a fine pay and, in fact, absolutely necessary, and these factors need to be considered very well during the treatment of the committee. I'll take the example of an orphan. As soon as such works are made, there is a question about how to deal with them, i.e. how to determine if they are actually orphans and then as important as that, how to handle such works if a writer is identified, be absolutely clear and make sure that the author has the right to get his job back in his hands and get the natural compensation for the new work, etc. The reason why I mention this is that the general view of human freedom for negotiation must always be underlying regardless of what other matters. In fact, this has been shown in the discussion the importance of looking to these laws and then to other laws that deal with similar rights. Of course, all of this needs to work together. That's why we worked this way, and we tried to make good use of it in the Ministry as well as, of course, everything else, and it's gone out for a story and a presentation online to call out for all views. We wanted to get all we can get to make a decision about it before we suggested it to the council. I reiterate that I realize the complexity of the situation here, I realize that the time this will, of course, measure the nature of the situation. I just remind you that one of these primary events is - the two involved in the implementation of a European directive, but another directive is already past our time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u112	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize community planning and application programmes. 1167, section 693. The strategy aims to equal the opportunities of all the people of the country for employment and services, equal the standard of living, and contribute to sustainable development of rural areas. Protocols, however, are policy-making programmes that set up areas of rural activities and include locality, vision, aims, and measures to achieve these objectives. This is about the position and content of these programmes, their interaction between the two parties and the relationship with other public planning programs. The bill consists of developing a structure that has been developing since 2011 and specifying the interaction and link between a country plan and application plan. It is important to establish the role of the Agency as the monitoring and management organisation and, at the same time, to develop a structured application procedure and associate them with a build-up programme as well as to define the role of the national components of rural society that have to do with regional planning. The objective of the bill is to promote urban development in the whole country. It is also an important goal to increase consultation between community-based recruitment within each part of the country and between administrative levels. At the same time, rural authorities provide increased responsibilities on urban and community development. Next, a better use of funds and decision making is being given closer to the field. Regional development programmes are expected to be the responsibility of the local people. They are to include regional implementations on government programmes, such as strategy, government education, and national planning, to name something. Each member of the country then makes a contract with the Ministry on budgets that the locals have laid aside for the implementation of the programme. Local governments have more knowledge of local circumstances and attitudes and are in a better position to enable local members of the community to participate. The home participation in policy development, planning and project management is fundamental to achieving better results. The objective of the bill is to create an arrangement that encourages participation in the locals and cooperation of those who benefit the territory as a whole. The strategy and plan being implemented in the active cooperation of a wide network of local residents is essential for financial contributions from the state. Protocols need to take into account government policies and seek to promote national competitiveness as a whole. There is now a stipulated plan of the 7th chapter. Law on Building Organization, No. 106/1999. The 97th paragraph applies to the national parting body of members. Civil Government, No. 138/2011. However, there is no law on application programmes, the Council's Management Board and the national consultation area. The bill will change this, and there will also be a provision for a structured programme made from the legislation on the Legislation and strategy. Thus, there will be a complete law code around this program. A respectable president. With the bill, the main objective of the core strategy will be increased within the Council of Government, where the Ministry will work together to improve the situation of the country in cooperation with rural society. By legally establishing the Council's Management Board on Social Affairs, the aim is to achieve the aim of improving cohesion within the Commission's affairs, which are involved and to ensure effective consultation between local administration levels in regional affairs. The bill dictates that a seven - year strategy will be implemented by a Minister of the Building Organization in cooperation with the Council's Management Board's Management Board on community matters. In addition, it is recommended that the management department, local areas, and others should be consulted as needed in the development of a targeted strategy. In this, the main objective of the urbanisation programme is to gain greater force within the Council of Control, with the cooperation of all recruitments and their cooperation with rural society. Is It Wrong to Change the Legal Law, No. 106/1999, the role of the Agency will still be to promote edifices and activities. The bill suggests that the role of the Agency must promote edifices and activities with special emphasis on the equations of all the people of the country for employment and residence. At the same time, the bill assumes direct action on Days 2 and 3. cut to an agreed strength area on the current National based map approved by the EFTA (ESA) monitoring centre for a particular period of time. The bill was written at the Department of Employment and Development by its employees, but in addition to its employees, the Ministry of the Presidency, the Union's Company and the Office for Building Its Convention. At that time, the bill was for a discussion at three conferences of the Council of Directors on Social Affairs, a representative of the national branch organization as an audience, and as it was presented at a meeting of the management team with the presidents and directors of the national branch society. A respectable president. I have now explained the key points of the bill and the reasons for its contribution and suggest that it be referred to a 2nd cover. ... andwhat. Business committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u113	Mr. President. I'd like to say a few words on the subject here to 1st. There is a bill being submitted to legislation on community plans and application programmes. The objective of this law is good, and at first glance it seems like a lot of things to be doing, to improve consultation between recruitment, management and rural society, and to increase responsibility for community development in these Member States. What makes my life stand out in these matters is that enough money is assured of this urgent project. How good it is to work together such projects as growth agreements, cultural contracts, application programs, and groundwork depends on the high financial resources involved in this operation. We know that during the last two budgets, major cuts have been made in national parish programmes. At that time, only 100 million were on that assignment; 15 were added by 85 million. We also know that this amount had risen to 400 million in 2013. Of course, there was tremendous dissatisfaction between local authorities and the general population who had benefited from the progressive policy of national policy, and there was great joy across groups. Then you could hear a lot of fear from local authorities as to where this was going. Now, the government has decided to step up in this suit and talk about how to synchronize it with various factors. I'm not going to rule it out, but the financial paraphrase says: "If the bill is legalized, it is expected that the expenditure of these projects on budgets will be unchanged. " Based on a projection of more than 320 million, the application programme 102 million, the construction agency over 147 million, for employment advice in the country over 176 million, and the cultural contracts for 207 million, and a number of contributions to the Ministry of Education and Culture over 19 million, a total of 973 million. K. Then, of course, we need to add funding to the basic projects that are important for the construction of the country. If that will be the case in the next budget, you can do it by examining integration, but if the integration is just on its own and there's no money to be added to these teams, I don't think this is going to serve the purpose that's being set up. I hope for the best, and, of course, I'll be dealing with this case on a job committee. There we receive reviews from fellow members and a number of people who are concerned about the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u114	V.E.G. President. In 1st. I'm not going to have very many words on the subject, but as discussed here, this bill is a song on strategy and application plans. These laws are set up to create a legal framework for these two programmes, structure and application programmes, with a change in the laws of a living institution on the way. At the first lecture, I think it is beneficial to believe that the procedure is being handled by the law. These include the application schedule and reports that in the past spring, the employment and innovation services of the Ministry have assigned the Advisor firm Evris as an independent party to evaluate the implementation of national parish programmes. Evris had returned a report to the Ministry in August 2014 and worked fast and well; the report is entitled The Assessment of the implementation of the parish Plans. The main conclusions of this report were as follows, by permission of the president: It is the assessment agent's assessment that, overall, the Protocol Protocol has been successful over the two-year period considered in this assessment. The project is a development project, and during these two years, it was an important time to test new methods and learn from them before the following steps will be taken. [...] It is then the assessment agent's opinion that conventions for the implementation of application programmes have generally been a major step in progress and are well within the reach of greater power and responsibility for the individual parts of the country to be undertaken. [...] According to Evris's report, application programmes have improved consultations and cooperation, both within the Commission and between administrative levels, greatly simplified communication between state and rural society, and further policy and national planning. The experience of the consultants, national members of the rural community, and others involved in the application project is very good. A respectable president. I wanted to mention it here because I think it's a very good conclusion. It is not surprising to me, but I am one of those who took part in the last term preparing a national parish program that had a slight blow at the council, not everyone had faith in the form it was. But this report is the best comment on national application programmes during the two years that were run there and considered. This should be kept in mind by some present - day management teams because not all were at peace with that way. However, it is suggested here to create a policy-making plan to ensure the presence of the local people in that work and to increase their responsibilities and priorities, to legalize it. I think putting this in here is a good thing for a respectable president. But I can't let it go by the end of the line because one is creating a bill and another doing it that the law on community planning and application programs, which I don't doubt we can do for a job on a professional committee: I have always a warning about this kind of basic work and about what the government doesn't give enough money in the program. There was a tangible warning this winter, we can say, both before and after the year, in which there was an intense conflict between parties with a special Ministry, which merely came about the lack of financial resources. In other words, if I recall correctly, when it first appeared, there was a bill that added 85 million, which went to 100 million. That's not enough. It is not enough, considering what was in the past, when a financial committee was sharing a lot of money, stock costs, cultural contracts, etc., and all of this was taken into this program, just a lot more money is missing. That's what's best in this relationship. A respectable president. I wanted to handle this because I think the greater part must bring more money into this category, or this will continue in this tension and even in an operation that I don't think is for good. This is what I wanted to say to 1st.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u115	V.E.G. President. I'm glad that this bill of community planning and application programmes is introduced into the council. It creates a framework for how such plans will be used. It's a pleasure to have the bill officially confirmed that application programmes will be established. It is quite remarkable in itself to recall that when the present is at its height. Then, in the summer of 2013, the government threw out the parish program, a plan that has been extremely effective in real life, and is highly praised by the Advisory Commission, which says, by permission of the President: It is the assessment agent's assessment that, overall, the Protocol Protocol has been successful over the two-year period considered in this assessment. The project is a development project, and during these two years, it was an important time to test new methods and learn from them before the following steps will take place. The report then quotes another point of the report. Now I continue to read from my report with the bill, with the permission of a president: It is the assessment of the Agency that the implementation of the application programmes has generally been a major step in progress and is well motivated by the development of greater power and responsibilities on individual parts of the country. This, too, is based on having increased consultations as high as possible. Minister mentioned, to create an arrangement that activates the locals. Happily, this was a life course. This was one of the stakes in which money was put, and they were going to put more money on these factors than had been done before. True, it has not worked in harmony with the plans that lived. As the speaker before me, why. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller, at which point he pointed out that there were 15 million people in the budget, and the funds rose to 100. This section speaks of the national conventions of 102 million, but plans for this team were expected to include some 400 million while we in our previous government work with it. It's a good thing to legalize. It's important to strengthen the level of government. What needs looking at, however, and I'm going to pray to the highest level. Minister only to wonder with me is that we will continue with parish programmes under national bodies. The National Association does not have a legal position in rural law or national law. Social legislation is spoken of, but the legal status of participants is very vague. To this level, more and more projects are being moved. We've been moving a public transport there. That's the strategy. While men were developing these strategies, they were aware of this. Such preparations used so - called national meetings. There were a lot of people who were looking to shape their policies for the quarter. But when this begins to continue and work, even though it is now being won by a new member of the Board of Directors, there is reason to be concerned about the democratic angle around the national part of the country and on any responsibility of the funds that are used and the decisions made there. I've got the highest attention. Minister of this, requesting that this be done for specific purposes. There is also reason to remind us that we are taking further assignments to the countryside. It has repeatedly pointed out that the state level of government is a small part of the administration government compared to other northern nations. Of course, it is of utmost importance that our service is as near as possible to the population as possible and that the community officials have the most to say about the ministry. However, at the same time, the risk factor for it is the small population. The question is, Do we not have to face up to the fact that large numbers of rural areas must be united and reduced? This has been done through tasks such as those raised by a disabled person. At that time, the minimum area of the city was about 8,000, if I recall correctly, with some accessories. Then there is a medical problem, but there are not necessarily the same areas. This would be much easier if we had legalized larger societies, just as all the countries around us have done, including Greenland, I don't talk about what changed in Denmark a few years ago. What I want to ask the highest. The minister that, except for the Democracy Palace of the National Components, is a legal place for the national community, which is in the real third administrative capacity but has no position as such. I know this was recently discussed at the first meeting of the European Union, but I couldn't get over that discussion, but I listened to some of it on the air. It is important to sharpen the position of the National Association in Icelandic legislation. Because I criticized that the amount had dropped, I'd like to ask about the cost of a financial bulletin. How has this cost developed in recent years? When we go through the last government period, it seems to me that the numbers were higher. I'm waiting for the highest. Minister to inform me of the numbers and plans of the world. They put in extra money through the green economy and local parish plans. Similarly, there have been suggestions, including From the United States of America, as part of the fishing fees go to the countryside. I know some categories have supported it. It would also help the country's habitat and could increase the financial resources that include employment advisers, generalisations, and application programmes. Other than that, I rely on this bill to get a careful discussion on the subject. A professional health committee. It is important to get this into shape, put it into place for a long time, and then prepare it so that we can rid ourselves of political allowances or fancies, and try to establish some long-term ways with increasing participation in the population, but then we also need to ensure that if you put everything through the government democracy and the majority of the people, it wants to become more part of your community to be under the board of the board, and if they choose only their parties, they will leave 50% of the country's citizens behind the decision-making process. I'm not going to do this any further in this first round. In fact, I was going to go straight to the top. A minister, however, decided to give a brief talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u116	V.E.G. President. I'm just going to come up here to celebrate that we've come to this place with this wonderful project, which was not necessarily as positive as what people want to mean. As with every project and major change in the area of change, so there are often great obstacles. I remember that those of us who were in the countryside were crazy about this project, thought it was a big change, and it wasn't a happy thing about it at first. But then we started to work on it, and we realized it. For example, the meeting was a nosy one in the beginning. It costs to hold a meeting, there are a lot of distances needed to get everyone together for extensive consultation; it costs us to live in this vast and large country, and we always have to assume that. Happily, then, a way was found to meet it in some way and to make progress in it. But it's like with many other things, it needs to be examined from all sides. Here we are establishing an arrangement for cooperation and a work programme that has been taking place and that has been positive to find it. There's a cross-cutting job at the Ministry that I think is extremely important. In this way the number of projects can be increased and the decision making can be extended to parts of the country and to the people throughout the country. For example, it was fun to share in the establishment of the East Bridges in the East, when the Eastern Europeans joined together and united foundations. It could be said that this was related to simplifying the system, simplifying the approach, finding a mission, and working on it. If this is legalized, it will be easier for the Ministry to use this method and the plans for various smaller contributions to the national parts or members within them. In each part of the country, people with expertise in every area they are working on are important, and it is important to nurture and activate them and use them at home in the provinces, bringing more decision making. I think it's a very good thing this place has come to this place. Things have been done, but it is not unusual, when changing our work practices, that we need to set aside time for them to be reconciled, to make a living, and to work with them. That's how it is in all changes. But I welcome the main objective of this law, which is to promote urban development in the whole country. It is very important to all of us that our country is strong and that we work together. I think it's a good team, and I can't wait to work with this thing to the point. A professional health committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u117	A respectable president. I appreciate the debate. senators who participated in it. As far as I can hear, the representatives of the panels who participated in the discussion agree with the main objective of this process, of establishing a set arrangement, and thus establishing the work that we have used on the other side of the parish plan and, of course, of course, the main objective that we have not yet found a valid place before, and how we integrate the plans of the state, and then cooperate with the local people in each part of the country. That's right. That's right. paritaprevir Þórunn's Egilsdóttir, however, that when the project began, people were out of the country and then have learned that working together to do tasks can be more effective. It is very important that the locals influence urban development in their community. It was the initiative taken by the Eastern part of the country to set up the East Bridge and have followed many other parts of the country, in effect, to accept more work into this area of the country. Therefore, it is of the State that the approach of the State to this strategy and strategy is clear. That is the primary objective of the bill in itself. That's also true. paritaprevir The God - fearing son Hannesson says that there is a democratic palace in national parts of the country when they are primarily appointed more part of each rural government. It is a task that each part of the country needs to adopt, how national and administrative organizations and their advice are organized. But it was also important in our view to sharpen their position, since they have this field and have it today. Besides, I agree with what. paritaprevir The Guðbjartur - given son of Hannesson in that it was wise for humans to define a specific area. We have different laws at the council defined different number of services, medical areas, veterinary areas, shift areas, and last county office and police office. How much wiser it would be to promote the same areas we are considering, so that government services could be built up in all those areas and possibly meet the normal requirements for inhabitants up to the same basic services on the part of the State, as people pay the same tax percentage wherever they live. It is an assignment that we need to take to heart and consider how we can do better in the future. Hv. A senator also asked what kind of funding would be done, and other senators only came into it. Of course, it's not discussed here. It's discussed in financial terms. Hv. A senator asked if a part of the fishing fees would come in to the parish plans or to this project. In fact, it is my opinion and have been long and in the direction of the Agency that it is wise and in the bill that has been involved but is not yet included, in the management of fish that is the overall fishing management of which the fishing costs are also, it has been planned, as noted, that part of the fishing fees are in there. Hv. A senator also asked about the development of costs. As far as I know, these figures in themselves have not changed for cultural contracts, interest agreements, but, rather, the number of contracts that have been made since the beginning has grown something, for which treaties to individual parts of the country were mainly made as soon as the whole of the country have now been negotiated. Last year, the government, by approval in Parliamentary funds, increased money to cultural tourism from 35 million to 45, if I recall correctly. Then there is the problem. A senator was likely calling after, that the first government had placed 400 million in its last year of election or last year for campaign elections and announced that this amount would double and then triple. Of course, it was nothing more than a power of election, for we know that when we reach the government's end, we had to run away like that, for first of all, we have to afford what we're doing. However, it is my opinion and many others that the funds we place in our parish plans today, over 100 million, are too little money, and we need to put more. They'll be working on it. I hear nothing else, at least in part of the Parliament, but that there is a desire to be involved in that work, and I look forward to cooperating with them members of Congress on it. Other than that, I thank you for the discussion, and I know why. The job committee will take this matter seriously. Of course, I hope to get some of that done as soon as possible, but mostly after the committee has finished its work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u118	A respectable president. The procedure I'm making here is self-explanatory. I'm sure it's about the recovery of something quite peculiar that the milk industry has had since the competitive laws of about a decade or so ago. Then came the spring council at that time, freshly developed, had to be taken by variations, and was taken in a great hurry at that council, a special release for this sector from the rights of competition. Of course, competition is merely to ensure free competition for employment, which is a natural and healthy environment for any industry, the milk industry as well as anyone. Then, with the backing of one anti-Cational class, the industry on this exception, which came from three political parties here at the council, 16 members of the Bjart future, the United States and the Pirates - we are simply moving this issue to the conclusion that this exception will be canceled, that the milk industry will simply fall under competitive laws, such as other industry in Iceland, that consumers are protected from the Contestation for an unsurpassed agreement for the use of any kind of market and monopolys on this market as it were on the other markets. It was a mistake in his day to give this exception. In the last winter, we have observed a wide coverage of how one company has abused its marketing position in order to choke in the birth of competition, to break the backshaft with various measures. It is simply an unhealthy environment, both for producers in this sector and for consumers. Free competition amongst people and businesses is what attracts the best in business and is mostly beneficial for consumers. Fortunately, we have so many opportunities to do this in the milk industry, especially if we have the opportunity to make use of the European markets, and if we were part of the European Union, we would have access to them. While it is not important for us to complete a contract with the European Union and to ensure that Icelanders have access to the vast export tools available to the industry. Similarly, we have the opportunity to reorganize the article when the production and demand have exceeded the sayings of the article and work out of the disturbing dinner arrangements that have been there. Many other fine parishions are ours, and one of them is promoting competition in the milk industry, and that is why it is a simple matter. The same proposal was made as a 2011 council proposal. I'm sorry, but she was a member of the High Priest's Party, the Independence Party, and the individual party, but we hope that this will be the approval of the Council today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u119	A respectable president. I think it's extremely important that we take a very close look at these matters and if you want to have the law as they are, you need to give clear evidence of that. I agree with what. While there is no doubt that there is good intentions when these laws were accepted as they are today, it is important that there be competition in as many areas as there are. But for all part it is extremely important to review that matter, for what happened was right. In Icelandic agriculture, there is a senator who is highly equipped. It is primarily the quality of the product, and it is not an emotional factor, but it allows you to look at a comparison between Icelandic goods and similar products. For example, it is interesting to examine the European Union and the European countries in this context. As far as I know, there's the least of the extra items in Icelandic carnivores, i.e. Icelandic production, in Europe, except for Norway. I think Norway has a little less. But there is much more in the countries that are fierce. A senator referred to the European Union and could easily argue that it is the same as the American meat, the common American meat, that hormonal meat, can only sell the foreign European European Union, especially in ancient Europe, as antibiotics if we are going to make a date for this product. Of course, in America there are goods for which people pay in different ways, but hormones, such cattle, are common there. I think, first and foremost, their position is something that we may not think is good, i.e. Corn and anything but no grass, but if they're going to buy such products as they get here what they call, by President's permission, I think they're going to pay double the price of the other products. However, we need to keep this higher. There is a difference between meat and dairy products, and there is a difference between dairy products by the way they are. For example, the other day I learned with butter that when you're in other countries, I'm not saying here in Iceland, there's another color on the butter, and it's just because the animals are fed on other things than grass. For example, it has been found that yellow butter is very healthy and that many things are desirable where people are unaware of before. I now say it as a food test, I feel much better after a certain quality certificate came on butter and such products. I think we should discuss this, more dignified President, in this context. Key elements are that we push under a new wand into the agriculture system, and without doubt it is important to have large parties hold the price down and get some size benefits, I think the parish tools are no less than smaller ones. For example, protection from farms, evolution has been quite a factor in wanting to know where the product comes from and where it eats and eats. It's not going to change, I think it's going to last. When it comes to the massive tourist currents here, there is a huge area of parishion. We're not using that method, a respectable president, a long road. It is amazing that, for example, our lamb has not been included in the present health wave, with full respect for factory workers. There is no doubt that lamb must be a far better option, and it really has a great deal of barbaric properties. We need to consider this in context. I think we're supposed to put in the agricultural discussion more emphasis on quality. That's where our strength lies. We will never be able to compete with the countries we compare with, but we can compete in quality. It is important, more dignified president, when we are talking about importing agricultural products to know where it is coming from. I'm good with people choosing themselves. I am totally aware that there is such a general and similar policy in Iceland, when it comes to business with agriculture, and in the European Union that the European Union has exactly the same business practices in other areas. The European Union is a protection alliance, a toll alliance, and is trying to protect its market and is, in fact, the same emphasis as the forward-to-do company leaders. It is always as dramatic to hear those who are the leading opponents of the Agency who want to join the European Union, for they enter the entire fantasy country of protective policy when it comes to business, not just by agriculture, but by trade in general. This is something everyone knows who wants to know, and it's the natural problem now because of the TTIP interview, which is a discussion between the European Union and the United States. The problems are mainly due to the European Union's Protection Policy, which makes it possible for a more dignified president, for example, that the European Union does not want to inform Iceland or any other EFTA state what is going on there, we need to get the information from the United States. The United States wants to have the agreement open, allowing others to, but the European Union does not want it because the European Union is a protective alliance that wants to protect an old-fashioned toll alliance and is totally incomprehensible to talk about involvement in the European Union in the context of business freedom. That's why there were words. A senator said it would be so great for Icelandic agriculture and Iceland to be in the European Union completely incomprehensible. And another contradiction is that sometimes when you hear members of the Member States who want to walk in the European Union talk about a change in agricultural policy, it's as if they don't realize that if we walk in the European Union, we have to pay such a net of 10How15 billion or something in the EU fund. This has been taken out of the National Institute of Economics of the University of Iceland and others. The sums of these all go primarily to European farmers, so that such amounts would have to be paid and, in fact, much higher than those paid in agriculture today. We'd have to pay it to European farmers. A respectable president. I think it's very important to consider this and other suggestions that could lead to a national competition, promoting innovation, and taking advantage of our opportunities. But I just don't see how anyone can think of talking about freedom of business and the European Union at the same time. I also don't understand, Mr. Honorable President, how anyone would think of talking at the same time about not wanting to contribute to the agricultural but wanting to walk in the European Union, for it is perfectly clear that if we walked in the European Union, we would have to pay a very large amount of money to European farmers and much higher than we pay now to Icelandic farmers. It's all there is, and they can look into it if they're interested. A respectable president. These suggestions should be taken seriously. I also think we should look at things like that when it comes to the contracts we have with farmers, we should focus more on quality, i.e. We are to reward the more productive producers, and we should set the goal for such production. Much of this has been achieved, even with factories coming out well in comparison with other nations when it comes to salmonella and Campobakter and so on. We should have it as a goal when it comes to domestic food production, whether it is agriculture, no matter what it is, or the fishing or any other food production, when it comes to quality. We won't, and there's nothing necessarily desirable, being here with the cheapest production if we compare ourselves with other weather countries, we'll never be able to compete with it. It is also true that in many places, there are very few requirements for food production. We should not compare ourselves with such things. We're supposed to set the goal when it comes to the quality. Then, as a respected president, we should try to have the most active competition possible in all areas. That is why we should consider this and another similar suggestion, but let us not forget the big picture. I think it is very important that we speak of the European Union and especially the factors that the members do not want to discuss, which focus on the state of the European Union. The European Union is a tax alliance, an old-fashioned tax alliance, which has not been working on a vacation market in the world, a long way from there. The European Union, I think half of its budget goes to agricultural policy and fishing policy. For example, there we are competing in the fishing field. We make huge money from the fishing road. There is no nation that has our kind fishing fees, a long road from there. The nations of the world, especially in the European Union, generally subsidize down and into their fishing way, and we must be members of a common marine policy. That has been confirmed many times. For example, the other day, I was getting a meeting assignment, a respectable president, who was written after recordings, the meeting is then written, asking the head of the European Union's enlargement department the normal question: Don't we need to be a member of the common marine and agricultural policy? Of course, the answer was: Yes. Except, of course. So we need to discuss these matters as they are, not in some wishful mind of the party. A respectable president. I think it's important that we discuss these issues in context. I appreciate this suggestion, and I believe we should discuss it and examine it and any other ideas that can promote competition here on the country, no matter what level it is. Of course, if the suggestion is to do so, we should consider it seriously.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u120	A respectable president. Here's a law bill on which three carriers are on. The first carrier is a dog. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, who's not in Congress right now, then the man standing here. paritaprevir Brunes the Brynjar of Níelsson. It's very simple. It is determined that the government and legal authorities, which are 51% or more of the government, are obliged to publish publicly broken information on the purchase of products and services over 150 of you. K. In every calendar, except for the regulations of ten C.E. the limited information rights for the public interest are applicable. The information should be available to all and appear in a monthly summary of the homepage of the competent authority or legislator no later than the 10th day of the next month. And the sum of money shall be with a description of the merchandise, and of the service thereof: and it shall be also with the matter of every seller. In very short terms: All accounts in excess of 150. K. let's openly publish so that the public can have access to them. Some might say that this is a radical idea, but it is not radical. It aims to provide public resources when it comes to expenses. It's an eternal battle. There may be ample evidence that this fight is not working so well. The present majority of the budget committees have been especially concerned with what we have to offer on goods and services. Despite the obvious benefits of pursuing outlets and making use of the size, i.e. Publicly, when it comes to such purchases, it is a serious offense, and it costs huge amounts of money. If this were to be done, bills would be public and all available, there is no doubt that there would be more pressure and maintenance for those institutions to meet these laws. There is no doubt that various people, individuals and members of the same service alike, would observe this and provide appropriate resources to the institutions and point out if products and services could be purchased less than currently. Hence, the matter should be a priority, as is the case with any other matters involved in the management and saving of government. This applies not only to the state but also to local societies. To put this into context, in 2012 the stock trade for products and services was about 27% of total income that reached 740 billion dollars. Then there were countless companies in the majority of public parties, but there are also plenty to do. We're talking about huge companies, such as Land activation, camp loans, State Radio, a company that would be extremely important to provide support for expenses. This is not more radical than the fact that it has been going on in various countries that we compare ourselves with. In recent years, there have been steps in Britain to open up government and to improve the financial benefits of state and rural communities. The result is an increase in the maintenance, savings of shopping, as well as land for individuals and companies with new and cheap products and services for public citizens. This I think is extremely important, because the nature of the situation in general does not necessarily mean that the number of institutions that buy into it can always be monitored, the speed of society is like that. Happily, this is an enormous development. This arrangement, as I mentioned earlier, can make it possible for those who bring new products or services to compare themselves with others as well as for the institution A to look at what is going on at the institutions of B; then they can see things they don't see right now. In 2006 at the U.S.A., a law by permission of the president was passed by The Federal Funding Accountability and Transparancy Act of 2006. They made the whole kingdom and its establishment an obligation to publish official information on how government funds are spent. In accordance with the law, a special website, USSapending.gov, was set up, where taxpayers can obtain information on how the government protects its resources. Now have at least 46 countries in the United States opened similar Web sites that provide detailed information on the cost of the State, including some of them. the purchase of goods and services. Many cities and rural areas in the United States have followed suit. In the United States, public and media guidelines have led to the saving of millions of dollars and increased pressure to improve tax management and to reduce waste. The likelihood of corruption is also reduced when the information is available to all. When you go over it, a respectable president, you really ask yourself why it's not like this. Some day it would have been said it was such a big deal, but in a changed world with the Internet and computer technology, it's a lot easier than it used to be. The current government, the highest. Secretary of finance has taken steps this way by opening the site a government bill. It will also be easier to monitor the budget if we agree to the top bill. The secretary of finance for public finance, since then we can also see the development of institutions, how this has been about the budget between years. You can do nothing now except by special means and special work. A respectable president. There is no grammatical argument that would argue that we are going this way. That's not a technical argument. True, we can argue that homepages, computer systems, and so forth are needed to make this as accessible as possible, as will be done in a financial account. Is there any doubt that the cost will not be returned? There will probably be an expense when it comes to this. We're gonna do what we're gonna do. The legal committee has pressured us to follow up the reports, reviews, and proposals that have come from public institutions since our entry. We made that clear in the majority sense. We called on the State's pay to cover how things went according to the political emphasis we've had on the more part of the legal committee and the board. We did that this week. Then we were introduced to the highest level of work. The secretary of finance, where there were some suggestions and not just suggestions, was to review it again and again, what we would use little of the equipment we already have on public purchases. I can take one example. The price on board computers, approximately identical to computers, varies so much that there will be more than twice the price on such computers at public institutions. However, there should be cross contracts that make it possible for humans to have access to inexpensive products, but these possibilities are not used. It's not just a good thing, it's absolutely necessary. It is perfect priorities for the public to have access to this information, just as we do with the countries we compare with them. If we do so, we will help the public, the media, the scholars, and the politicians to preserve public institutions. They do not need to dress in a negative way, which will also make it easier for relevant institutions to see how things are going in other institutions and to learn from them. We have differing views about politics in this room and in society in general. However, no matter what government agencies go into, there is no issue to be as careful with money as possible. Of course, it's utopia to say that we'll ever reach the place that it's undisputed how to do it, of course it's not. But if this bill is approved, we'll increase our resources and make it easier for all of us to make the best use of public funds. That means we are also promoting innovation in society. Suppose, then, that individuals would start a small company with exciting solutions - what is better for the individual than having access to information like this, can contact the managers of the institutions or advise them that they could achieve much better results or be made relative to what they were doing if they would shop with this new company? I don't think this is going to only save, I think there's going to be a little less suspicion in society and suspicion in society has become a special national ill. There's a lot about it, as we know. All we need to do is look at the media, blogs, and other things to see it, men see conspiracys in various corners. Now it may be there, I can't rule it out at all, of course, something like that must be there, but I don't think there's anything out there to the extent that you can distinguish from the various websites. As more and more such information is available, suspicion is less likely to occur. And although it would be a bad way if some institutions just had to do this and others didn't, I think it made it possible for people to make comparisons and learn from it if this applies to all the public systems, not only the state but also the local community and I'm not talking about public companies. A respectable president. This bill is a means of making greater use of government funds. That's what this bill is for. This is to achieve better economic advantage, greater savings, improve tax use, reduces the likelihood of corruption, and also contributes to innovation and evolution in society. I think we should finish this case as fast as possible. I suggest that this case be referred to. The legal committee that will review the case. It is totally in the spirit of what most of the legal committees have worked to do. There have been no loud protests against the case, but even though a person may not have received much support from the government opposition when it comes to holding and saving government funds and priorities. I haven't felt any support, but it's been a bit of a mess. It is an enormous stand for government agencies, and although it is said that setting priorities for basic services is important, and so has it not been done in recent years. That wasn't done during the last term. At that time, priorities were set in behalf of the surveillance agencies, certain institutions of the Environment Ministry, individual cultures, and particularly foreignities, but saved when health and education became available. I don't think it's the wrong priorities, but I don't think that's one reason why it wasn't the evils of the last government. There is no doubt in my mind that if the public was more aware of the structure of the money, if the public was more aware of the development of the state affairs, we would be better off setting priorities. Away from politics, I think the public is in that we should set priorities for basic services. Some politicians may think differently, but they do not talk about it publicly. [[The president calls.]] In any case, I hope that we will get a good discussion on this subject and suggest that it be referred to clearly. The budget board.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u121	V.E.G. President. In many ways, I find this interesting, as it were. paritaprevir spoke God - Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson here. In fact, I don't agree with what he said here at the end of his speech, that during his last term, my priorities for basic service had not been set, but I'm not going to make it that the main points of this counter-to-remit are rather focused on the bill which, as I say, I find a lot more interesting. I agree that the State is to support and that the public should have good and accessible information on the financial affairs of the State. I don't think we share at all. In fact, I believe that it is in general with government institutions that the money is handled well, but of course things can always be improved. What I wanted to ask you. The senator is: Why is it chosen to draw the line at this amount, 150,000 k.? Where does that number come from? In case of a moment. A senator might want to explain this to me so that I may be able to better understand and understand the matter that I think is worth considering.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u122	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator before the counter, it was perplexing, as expected. A senator and I hope the discussion will be in that place. Only in the setting of priorities - the reason I'm reviewing priorities is that I just looked at it, I looked into it after institutions, it wasn't there when I started working at night. The legal committee, and went through the state account, and that's why I'm telling the story. It's not my estimate. I've studied the new government spending as well as which institutions have increased most; some have gone up tremendously when people thought they were saving, that's why I'm making this statement. In terms of public agencies taking advantage of money in general, I hope it is, but all the checks show that there is a great need. We've already considered this, as I mentioned earlier, and there are many reports for the purchase of public institutions. The most practical means are not being used, a long road away. That's just the way it is. Either this is it, so it's all bullshit that's coming from Government Reexamination, the New Committee, Kingdom Halls, etc. It has been spoken of in enormous sums of money that can be saved if people make use of the laws on public purchases as they should, and that is the experience of other nations. So it's not a lot of money. It's some kind of savings you'd think it would be easy to join one in. Then comes a question. A senator who's only very good, why 150,000 bucks.? That's a very good question, but when you ask a big question, there's little about answers. Of course, these could be other numbers. If the numbers were lower, someone might say that they were too large or that they were too low; we might be losing sight of the big things and the main things. It's not engraved on stone, it's just one number and it's definitely allowed to look at it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u123	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. I have to admit it right here and now I haven't covered these data, these numbers and these documents as yet. A senator referred to public purchases. But I can say that I was at a annual meeting of the Land Hospital and that it considered how the hospital has developed a system just in an effort to reduce waste and use money and all its resources. I could not see anything else, but it would be accomplished quite a good job. I just don't know what it's like with others, but I think something worth looking at is worth looking at. I have, as I say, not dive into these data in the same way as the what. A senator, who at least showed me that in this field, people are thinking about making the most of what they get. Thank you. A senator for just being honest with the fact that this figure, 150,000, is not engraved on stone. I'm sure it would be good for the upcoming committee work to know that this figure is probably a reference. It will be interesting to see the progress of this matter in the implementation of the Senate Committee. [[The president calls.]] I look forward to seeing how this angers, for it's about a lot of interesting things.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u124	A respectable president. Hv. A senator mentions an institution that I find very interesting to discuss, that is, the Landspians. I know that case very well. When I was a health minister, the Landskeeper was the biggest problem in the government business, which was 10 years over the budget, an average of about a billion each year. There was nothing popular at the time to deal with such factors, but I did. I made some sort of committee, and then it was advertised by a professional manager; it was the first time that a professional executive hired that the Land Hospital, that was, in my time, as amazing as it may sound. There were some practices that were introduced that were unmistakably behind them. And I think it was extremely important, especially after the shock of the bank, that it should be done. It's true, a respectable president, that there was saved in little things, because many small things get very big -- of course, there were saved in big things too, but there was a need for saving all over. In my experience, however, the staff of the Land Hospital were found to be quite one of them. It wasn't completely out of the blue, it wasn't. I think there's one of the reasons why the Land Hospital was unhappy, that people felt that they were taking seriously while they saw other companies and agencies of the government not perform the same way. They were doing things as they were supposed to and I think it would be different if it had walked across the line in general. Thank you. A senator for saying thank you for being honest with me. In my experience, telling the truth is the best thing to do. I don't have enough memory. It's just that we don't know everything, and then it's just best to tell about it. I think that's something that everyone understands. [[The president calls.]] I'm getting support from what's going on. A senator and I hope that a party of left greens will be on the same line as a whale. A senator, for it is a wise voice. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u125	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a synopsis of the establishment of the Council of the Land, which I shall bring with my voice. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, Magnúsdóttir Electric Rafney Magnústir, Róbert Marshall, Oddný Harðardóttir G. Hardydurdóttir and Birgitta Jónsdóttir. The proposal is to assign prime minister to order a group of representatives of all political parties to prepare the legislation for role, order and field service of the National Council, National Council. The staff will submit their proposals to the minister no later than October 1, 2015, and this date is, of course, underlined by the legal process, will have to take the course and provide the prime minister with the National Council legislation until Council 145. The thought behind this issue is that members of the Parliament will be seriously examined to see if there is any reason to harmonize with a work that is actually being done in the community at this time, how we can better measure our moral standards for daily living and working. Of course, we know such committees, especially in health science. We have in our community a National Institute of Health Research, and it is very often associated with moral issues designed to produce stem cells, other studies that might violate personal protection and so on. Then the hospitals have standards and ethics. The university has ethics and ethics. We have the National Institute of Morality, which is some kind of research institution, but we also provide advice and information on ethics and morals. The thought behind this proposal is drawn from Volume 8 of the Allied Research Committee, the leading cause of the fall of the Icelandic banks in 2008 and related events. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ This shows that the problem is widespread, profound, and systematic. The work group's workgroup report on morals and practices sums up the need for moral reform in a number of areas in Icelandic society. Then it says: ▪ From a moral point of view, it is increasingly important to trust democratic infrastructure and strengthen the system of government; to improve business practices, government and work practices, to promote professionalism, and moral values. The situation must be strengthened by the moral reasoning of the citizens of this city regarding their common interests. Courtly designated community responsibilities must be emphasized, and it must be contrary to the unique and narrowness of individualism. In particular, the industrialisation of Icelandic society should focus on strengthening these factors, and it is a long - term project that requires a contribution from people in all areas of society. Mr. President. This is actually the suggestion. It is not semiasak and is based on role models from Denmark and Germany, however, i.e. to form such an issue independent of advice, both of which have the responsibility of taking initiative in matters that are discussed in society and that require moral opinions to be taken into consideration, but can also be advice to governments so as to consult such advice on the moral issues that arise. It is so that the institutions we have for which we have a good job, each one in his own area, deal with specific matters, as I have come from earlier times. I'd like to use the opportunity to report that Denmark is a moral adviser, Det Etiske Råd, as it is called in Danish, by permission of the President. It was founded in 1987. Its role is to be the Danish Parliament and the government organisations for counseling as well as to create a platform in the community, especially in the affairs of biology and genetic engineering. The current code of Denmark's ethics is Lov O Det Etiske Råd of 9 June 2009. It was the birth of the first children in Denmark who decided to set up this counsel after a discussion with the community about what was right. The Council serves in close contact with the Danish Parliament, where they meet at least once a year with the special ethic committee of the Parliament, as well as with needed meetings. The members of the Council of America are 17, of which the Council of Moral Affairs appoints the Nine Committees, the Ministers appoint eight. They are appointed three years old at a time and cannot sit for more than six years. It is interesting to consider what this advice has been doing. This results in a significant deal of personal protection issues. This is one of the things to consider, for of course, we have a special legal institution. It has been a child protection law, about stem cell research, about the rights of disabled persons in the community. It has discussed localisation and administration of oocytes and has considered palliative and euthanasia issues. The other example I would like to cite is the German Council of Morality, which is arranged in a very comparable way, on the other hand, ministers are appointed by the Council of the Union. It is therefore designed to be a communication site on ethical issues and on the other hand, a consultant for the government and the public. The main focus in the work of the German Council of Morality is on ethical, business, medical, and legal matters specifically related to the application of biomedical sciences. Furthermore, there are other issues related to this in some way but also independent issues. In both of these cases, there is an independent and independent public setting of qualified ethic professionals who are expected to be counselors but also to take the initiative for discussions. For example, in developing countries, there is the moral responsibility of the Western world, including the German code of morality, to make possible the availability of drugs. Furthermore, if I take up the issues that have existed in the past few years, it has been about how and what moral values are around him, including genetic issues. There is also the pattern of death under discussion there, and in recent years there is also one of the subjects of the German Council of Morality. Like what? People hear the subject of many, and the thought behind this suggestion is that we take the discussion more to the public site, into the council. Perhaps this also comes from my belief that the council should long ago have worked on its own code of ethics. I think it is very important that the council take the initiative in that subject, both in the preparation of our own rules but also in the discussion we will need to take in the days ahead and miss. We have here a bill that needs to be discussed in detail by these standards. I hope so. With an open mind, members of the four parties at the council took advantage of this matter and used the opportunity to promote a public discussion of ethics and general issues related to moral opinions and to bring up the issues that we can combine to be professional and practical. According to this, I suggest that this proposal be made after the 1st. Let's go. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u126	A respectable president. It's about 1st. An important bill that we of the Congress Team have given high priority to. This is the bill on planning and man-in-the-house activities at Reykjavík Airfield. All the movers are with me, all of the House of Booths. This bill is, in effect, about whether the entire nation will be represented, not by some, in order to make a decision about the future of the city of Reykjavík on whether the city's airport should be in the Watermur, or not to be taken in the Council but not in the city of Reykjavík, and the future will be determined in a chamber. Reykjavíkur Airport is one of the nation's most important monuments. I think most people can agree on that. I have not heard anyone contradicting that the airport is a national interest. Now, the situation is that the Cheflavor airport is under the state and the government. It is not within the power of a rural society or a single rural society in the South to decide the right or the future of the Keflavour Airport. Nor have I heard anyone contradicting the fact or wondering whether a special rural society is a part of the future of the airport. Smokeports are represented at the General Assembly. Of course, they will be taking care of the interests of the nation, but we members of the Parliament are being made to care for the interests of the entire nation. But without going very closely on the bill, which has been given some publicity in the media, I'd like to say one thing. Hence, the discussion made it clear that the organizational authority was sacred, or sacred, as perhaps more people are now saying. However, if humans look only at the laws and rules that apply, they will soon find that the means of organization or its so - called organizational duties are far from sacred. It says in 1st. 78th par. The Constitution: ◯Investigators shall control their own affairs as the law determines. So it is in the power of the legislature, or General, to decide which lawsuits are being heard by the rural communities of the country and which litigation classes of the state. The decision is always made by the General, not by the rest of the community. This law, however, should prevent partial involvement with something on the team's table. That is a natural arrangement. But if the council will change, the Council will change. And the Council changes regularly. The bill points out that there are not only such preparations of Keflavík airports but also various national parks that severely limit the planning of rural society. The laws of nature require that there be many formative conventions, and I know, for example, that the rural society around Lake is highly bound by law. For example, the Council of Transport is organized by the General Assembly, and this is not the way the State's road will take place in Reykjavík, the country's society that does not interfere with it, which is the way it is conducted around the country. We are already discussing the so - called electronic system. In fact, it has been suggested that not only would it be an all - out body of authority in the country but also a national network. In fact, some people feel that they are too far off, and I have, in fact, agreed with them. This does not mean that we should respect the authority or duty given to our communities. That is why the bill emphasizes that the city of Reykjavík should be represented at the table, designated as Smoke, Council and Ministers, and that the city's construction representative is responsible for granting leaves and other activities. That's normal. All consultations with the city of Reykjavík should be assured in this matter. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that if people agree that Reykjavíkur Airport, along with the Cheflavour Airport, are subject to national interest, I believe that the Committee, Environment and Transport Committee, will have to consider seriously whether our backup airports, both in Akureyri and in Egls, should not fall under the same category or definition of national interest. I have noted that in Sweden, Sweden decided that many means of transportation, roads, bridges, even squares, and airports would be placed under this national interest hat and that it would always be the Council, or Riksdayens, Sweden, to include the major factors, i.e. If they were to take up an airport or park ferrying or something like that, it would be up to Riksdayens, the council of Sweden, to make that decision. This is of utmost importance, Sweden has taken 30 airports, including the Brommma Airport in Stockholm, and they say it's the cause of the council, of course. I would like to remind you of a bill submitted by the former president of the Generals, Ásta Ragnheiður, the daughter of Jóhannesdóttir. She wanted the planning to be taken off Reykjavíkurburg at the so - called General Assembly. I'm sorry, but I don't think that's enough coverage for me, but I think it was just from the former President Aldulis to make such a suggestion, because it's not just national interest, it's security. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] It is of utmost importance for the State to have something to say about how organized arrangements are being conducted around the Assembly, and it is also about security. In fact, from the terrorist attack in Norway, many of the other North countries have traveled on that road, which also led to the acts of terrorism and killing in Outy, as most of them know. A respectable president. I suggest this bill be approved. I think it's extremely important that we get the business of the Reykjavík airport involved in this process. The matter has been in great trouble. Much of the nation's population has declared on a poll that they want the airport to be in the Hydromosis. 73% of the Smokelanders have said they want the airport in The Watermies. However, former mayor and current city council officials appeared, declaring that the means of organization was in Reykjavík and that the country had nothing to do with it. It was claimed that some from abroad had been involved in the telethon, so they would not have been taken seriously. It's a knot we have to solve, a respectable President. We can see that now by means of an emergency route. In fact, I think it was put in a very bad way by Istavia when the risk assessment group was dissolved. I have called on the large part of this case to arrange for a foreign party to take out and assess the risk assessment. We must be 100% sure if we have to make a decision on an emergency route that is not a safety issue for an airliner and what those patients who truly need it at Reykjavík. My hope is that the Minister of the Interior will accept it. I'm sure she will, I know she's a supportive guy that the airport will stay in the Hydromosis. I am convinced that there will be a way to stop this emergency train from going. The situation is now such that the city's main and shared organization of the city of Reykjavík is set aside to set out in 2022. The passing of time is fast and much faster than people realize, and soon it will simply be time for them to park at the airport. That is why it is very important that this bill be approved sooner than later. I'm not going to extend this discussion. It's a complicated story, the whole history of Reykjavík International Airport. Many ministers have published declarations and meeting laws that have been unrecognized. I specifically mention an agreement as the then Minister of Minister of Homeland, Mr. Algmund Jónasson, made for the construction of transportation centers as well as for the former secretary of transportation, Kristján L Möller, if I recall correctly. Smoking, Reykjavíkurburg, on one occasion, declared that she was not going to respect the transport structure agreement but then repeatedly points to this meeting law, which I consider completely unacceptable. It's completely unacceptable. A respectable president. In view of national interest, in view of the normal democracy because of the decision made by the national representatives of the whole country, I suggest that the matter be referred to an Environment and Transport Committee and then made legal by the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u127	V.E.G. President. The first thing I want to say is that Reykjavík's airport isn't a smoking business. This airport in Reykjavík is mainly the airport of all the people of the country and the link between our country's settlement and our capital, Reykjavík, and especially with important institutions, such as the Land Hospital, the Government, and many other things. Before I go any further, I'd like to come in for a little bit. paritaprevir Þór Höskuldur Þórhallsson's speech spoke a great deal about in his speech, i.e. State and community planning. The importance of community planning cannot be minimized. Like what? paritaprevir The Höskuldur of Þór Þórhallsson to them is the state that sets that limit, and when we're talking about as nationally important a link as Reykjavík's airport, I think it's right for elected members of the country to take care of that airport like Chefjordur Airport. The bill says that if we do not have a faster transport between Keflavík and Reykjavíkur, it is quite right in the near future - and I believe that in the near future, in the year 2020 - we will be in some form here in Reykjavík. Then I may draw up an old idea from one of my teachers in organizational studies at the university, that the airport could be in Lönar granars, and that if it is in the water, it is in large cities that live abroad. I'm not selling it expensively, but I bought it, but one of my good friends said that he had already calculated it out, and it was more practical to sell all the land in the Emmit and build an airport in a country filling, and we still have a considerable bit of money left, even so much that we could have a new building in the Land Hospital; but it was such a funeral. I don't see how Reykjavíkur Airport will be anywhere but in Reykjavík, at least for the next 10, 20, 30 years, because until train, bullet, or other transportation means we'll be able to make it very fast and safely between Reykjavík and Cheflavík Airport, there will be no practical option. I don't think you can cut this thing off without anything else being replaced. According to this, I'd like to express my opinion that in the near future, after a certain number of years, there will be a Keflavorian airport if we can even expand more openings into the country. In very large cities, e.g. in Stockholm, more than 40 minutes from airport to downtown. So it's not unusual that it takes longer than I think it would be unnatural to pull the airport out of the Watermur without anything else being replaced. I agree with what. paritaprevir Höskuldur Þór, son of Thorhol, Þórhallsson that we need to set things straight. This has been an issue for some time and has been in the care of many transport ministers. I believe that by this suggestion, it will be successful, if we are to achieve the goal of making certain peace in the airways, making peace between capital and national, and setting things straight, which would last for a certain time until something else and better comes in place. To say that I am glad that this matter has finally been established and is also delighted to be able to deal with the bill of an environmental and transport committee. I'm not going to extend this discussion any further.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u128	A respectable president. I'd like to start by wishing. paritaprevir The Höskuldur of Þórhallsson, the 1st member of this matter, is to be congratulated that the matter is finally settled here at the council. I would like to encourage him, as chairman of the Environment and Transport Committee, to take the matter into consideration when this discussion is completed. I'd like to say that this is one of the most proud things I am of being with an importer here at this legislature, and I'm also proud that the whole body of the Agency is a member of this case. It's so, so we'll only start with the political bitch first, before we go to the material discussion, that there's only one political party in the country that's completely complete in wanting the airport to stay in the water swamp here in Reykjavík, and that's the forward party. The panel does not have one opinion in Reykjavík and another opinion in the country when it comes to this matter. The forwarding party is absolutely clear on the intention of having the Equatorial airport, and this is agreed with the direction of the pack. It is not so, as we have witnessed that here in the past, and in the last few weeks, we have seen that, among other things, the number of classes in the capital is to be headed, and so are the local council members of the country from time to time sent up to the platform to beat themselves on the chest and say that they want to have to keep on the water marshe; while their companions are busy working to move the airport out of the watermy and to press it every year. That's what I wanted to say in the first place. I agree with what. paritaprevir The Höskuldur of Þórhallsson's spokesman, when he says that he has great faith in the highest measure. The Minister of the Interior State of Ólöf Nordal wants to arrange for the airport to remain in the Hydromosis. For one thing, it is presented in a transport program at the highest level. Minister just offered up. I'd like to encourage you. paritaprevir And in Höskuldur of the son of Þórhallsson, if there be any landing, let it come to pass before the spring. The head of state and the city of Reykjavík, as the United States, the left, the green and the warm future of ships, which aim to ensure that the airport will continue indefinitely in the dierent - to make use of this matter by a environmental and transport committee. It's a little weird watching the politics. As we look at the fact that those who now appoint the city's city of Reykjavík speak acquiesce and sacred about terms of reconciliation, debates, and so forth - only when it suits the cause and group of these individuals. The situation is that much more of the nation wants the airport to stay in the Hydromosis. Twelgis of signatures were collected to support the airfield in the Watermur. All of this is thrown out of the window, and all of this is ignored because the reconciliation and the negotiations are only relevant when it is convenient for the given cause. It's been traced here by reason of reason. paritaprevir The Höskuldur of Þórhallsson's son and why. paritaprevir Haraldur Einarsson, the importance of the airport in connection with medical flights, passenger transport, etc. There is now much discussion about a new hospital. They talk about the importance of building a new hospital because there is a great need for a new home. I'll agree with this. But I'd like to say there's something special to watch that even the same people talking about building the Land hospital where they're supposed to build him want to move the airport away from him. It is fine to note that every year about 600 medical flights to the city of Reykjavík, 600 medical flights every year. Every day, there are nearly two medical flights in the city of Reykjavík, which will take patients out of the country who have to go to the Land hospital next to the airport. I find it amazing to observe when people talk about, and even the same individuals, that there will be a fast construction of a new land hospital and there will be no slang of location at the same time as they say: The airport must be removed. 600 medical flights every year, and if we examine the time we spend driving from Keflavík to Reykjavík, this time may make a big difference in the case of a medical flight. The second thing I would like to include in this discussion is how the city of Reykjavík has been involved. The radio committee was on the move, and she was supposed to consider these matters. Reykjavíkurborg ignores at the same time completely, violating the agreement that had already been made that man would try to achieve a far - reaching reconciliation. Building contractors are being started at the same time that this reconciliation committee is working. This is yet another sign of determined willingness to close the airport despite much of the country's population and much of its city population wanting to keep the airport in the Hydromosis. A respectable president. Reykjavík is the capital of all the people of the country. This involves a great obligation to the capital, a duty to all the people of the land. Hv. paritaprevir Einarsson mentioned earlier that it might be possible to move some of the airport to Lönarkrút, that the funds obtained from a heat store in the Hydromese could pay for that airport. But it must be clear and absolutely certain, when it comes to such calculations - and I agree that, of course, any solutions aimed at maintaining an airport as a center for the international flight - the government does not have financial costs for the building that would be at the same time as the city of Reykjavík would earn money from the sale of the property. Certainly, in part of the country that is under there, the city of Reykjavík is ready to participate in the expense of building the airport on the Longsacks, or is the city of Reykjavík just going to earn its income, the income of selling the property in the Waterstain, and then going to the state to build a new airport and take care of what is available there? It has also been said that there is an opportunity for a bullet train or another such as Cheflavík, which could lead to an airport being there. But is the city of Reykjavík ready to participate in that investment? I think the city of Reykjavík is going to take that investment. I'd like to encourage you. paritaprevir Why, in the months that Þórhallsson's son, the 1st merchant of this matter, will not be in the future in the airport affairs in the next few months, putting this matter into the council so that it can be legal before the assembly return to our home. That is when it can explain who really wants the airport to stay here in the Hydromosis. As it is laid out here - and it has been highly critical that the situation is to impair the planning of a rural society or other such by the fact that Reykjavíkurburg would take over the land where the city's city was in - would be an absolute emergency but would certainly be most fortunate to the city of Reykjavík and the city city city city of Reykjavík to see a proper time in trying to listen to the vast majority of the capital people who want to have the airport there, seek a solution instead of always working against all these matters, working against when the Rackcomputer's committee, implementing action, and the like it. If it doesn't last spring, I'd like to encourage you. paritaprevir Why Þórhallsson's son, the ancient man of what? The Environment and Transport Committee, to put this issue on top of top priority, we must not allow one year to pass without being addressed. I studied earlier that there are about 600 medical flights per year in the field, and these are all considered in a paper that goes with the bill. But there are also about 400 of you. Each year, passengers through the airport play an important role in tourism, in various types of service in the area around the country. There are a lot of people who have to attend service to the capital. Here's the largest part of all the public institutions of the country, here's the management board, here's the Ministry, here's the General, and there's a lot of departments, companies and others who have to attend this service. It is of utmost importance to these people around the country that it is possible to do all the same day, i.e. To go to the capital and to attend meetings, to do certain business, and then to return home. That's just what I said before. Being a capital is not merely a right; there are certain responsibilities. It is impossible for people to talk about it in one sentence that most of the public administrations should be in the capital area, in Reykjavík, in all public institutions, and so forth, but then those living in the country are not made possible to attend the required services. A respectable president. I hope that the political groups that make up more part of our national capital, Reykjavík, U.S.A. A bright future, the United States and the left movement offer, sees its own dignity in securing the future base of the Aviation Airport in the Hydromosis, ensures that the airport will be in the Hydromes indefinitely so that this stroke can once and for all time be built up accordingly. I fear, though, that a person will continue to squeeze to the airport, about one hole every year, and he will be unable to drive where he is - and worse. þm. Þorsteinn reminds me not to forget the Pirates, and of course I'll add them to my speech. [[Don't forget the Pirates.]] But I'd like to say it, and repeat it again and again to the what. The Environment and Transport Committee, that it should put much emphasis on speeding up this matter, trying to get what is moving back into the council, so that we can witness who really wants the airport to stay in the Hydromycin, or if, many of them, are planning to stay outside two and even three policies on this matter. There are too many politicians in this country who say one thing when they go to Ísafjörður, Akureyri, and other things when they get here to the capital. This is an enormously important case, and we are supposed to unite that the airport will be in the Hydromosis indefinitely. He is a service for the whole country, for the capital. I say like what? paritaprevir On one occasion, Páll Jóhann Pálsson, a member of the Convention, said: "What next comes to mind? Perhaps they will start shoveling into the harbor as well as opening up coffee shops in their country fillings. That men who control a capital should think of moving the airport out of the capital and not wanting to have all the connections around the country - a respectable president, it is amazing to observe this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u129	A respectable president. I want to thank those who spoke about this discussion. I'm not going to extend it much, but I just wanted to make a few things happen. We on the Environment and Transport Committee, if it goes through, will, of course, try to resolve this matter quickly and safely, but the matter is presented to ensure that representatives of the country are allowed to decide the final location of the Reykjavík airport. That's what's important in this large context. I think it's worth reviewing that in the second world war, there was the British that built up a Reykjavík airport. It was the British who gave the Icelandic nation the airport and it was Ólafur Thors, then prime minister of finance, if I recall correctly, that took over the city's territory of Reykjavík. I think it's a sign that this is the whole country's transportation edifice. The reason me and Ásmundur, Haraldur and others are fighting for the airport...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u130	The president would like to remind you that it is proper to address all members of the council by full name.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u131	- What? paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason and what? paritaprevir Einarsson, I quoted their good words. The reason we're fighting for the airport is because the region needs its capital. The region needs to believe that there is a powerful access to the hospital and also to the university, that there is a powerful access to all the administrative institutions in it, that it is a powerful access to the General Assembly, and to all the culture and good things that the city of Reykjavík has to offer. It is a bit unusual for those who are in the country to have to stand out in the only way that they can get in the best and most practical way into their downtown city, into their capital, because of the fact that Reykjavík is the capital of all the people. Our country is now here, so the center is here, it's in the Watermelon, it's here at the Tiranna, it's right here on the east side, and this area is supposed to be the territory of all the people, not just the capital city. After that, I hope that more members of all classes, local council members, capital council members, whatever they come from, will read the bill well, settle into the position that has come up, and this is the best advice to bring this important issue to justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u132	A respectable president. The bill is simply about the publication of the posts of ambassadors. The general rule is this about government positions and offices, as defined by the Treaty. of law No. 115/2011, the Council of the Management Board of Iceland, to advertise posts, for example, when appointing to the Ministry and Office manager, to advertise those positions and to be given the opportunity to apply for them. This has been the development of the public that positions are advertised, but under the law on Iceland's foreign service, it is advised when it comes to the order of ambassadors. According to that minimum, the posts of ambassadors need not be advertised. The bill simply goes on and off. The fundamentals, therefore, are simply the same principles, since public positions are generally to be advertised. There are reasons for equality that simply involve giving to all who may be interested in having these places applied. It must also be obligatory in the treatment of public power in an application procedure, for certain obligations rest on the government to support its findings in a professional way and meet all the demands we make on such decisions. Now ambassadors are appointed on the basis of this law simply by the decision of a minister, a minister appoints the ambassador. It's pathetic, and at best, a child of his time. This is an extremely old - fashioned concept of official power and, in fact, a potential form of healing for abuse of that power. If men have this uncircumcised power to bring the good that may be involved in being ambassadors somewhere, they can easily abuse it in the present state and simply use these positions as bitings. I'm not saying it's done, but there's nothing in the arrangement now that's stopping it and that's bad. Such public recruitment procedures should be open and transparent and characterized by professionalism. There are no special reasons why ambassadors' positions should be left separate. I've been informed that in other parts of the North countries, there is some kind of fixed process at the appointment of ambassadors. In Norway, when it reminds me, it is not customary to hire an ambassador from society or from outside, they are usually somewhere within the foreign service itself, which is advertised on the State Department's website, a closed web with employees, and they can apply for it. That's where they come from. I understand that in this country we both want to hire ambassadors from the foreign service, after some development system that I think is part of a people, and also to be able to hire ambassadors elsewhere. It's all good and blessed, and it may well be possible for this community, but it must be done as with other government posts after an application procedure where everyone can apply. Relatively recently the values of law, a law that states that the office of the Ministry should be advertised, for example, and the Ministry is at the same level as the ambassador's office, so now that the Ministry's office has to be advertised, the evidence is reduced that the posts of ambassadors are not to be advertised. It's a perfectly comparable situation. This is an urgent issue based on views of good and careful management. We want to do something like that in the country. One form of it may be that these recruitments have not been sufficiently involved in the law. It is simply a subsidiary of decision - making ministers at each time, how the sex exchange is on the posts. During 2014, 28 men were ambassadors and nine women. This is, of course, an unacceptable sex ratio. But if there were a commercial or advertised, these positions would be more necessary and more demand to hire more women for the ambassador's position because they require sexual equality in public recruitment procedures than this process is completely excluded from such demands. It's just a picture of how pathetic it is. This proposal has recently been made very interesting and important to the team. A recent report by the United Kingdom Accounting Office, Management Board, and Office of Iceland's emissary, is strongly requested by the Ministry that the posts of the ambassadors be advertised as other government posts. Actually, the Ministry's answer is not very important, I think. It says that on the one hand, ambassadors come from the foreign service, and if they come from the foreign service, they have at some point applied for the position and went through the recruitment process. Then they go through a process of progress and enter the ambassador's position. As long as the progress process is clear and clear and clear and clear, and everyone gets to compete on that basis, I don't see that this bill, which me and us in the Bright Future puts out this process in the ambassador's position. There may be marches within the Ministry as long as there has been a period of application for jobs in the foreign service and there has been a recruitment process. On the other hand, the Ministry says that it was also customary to hire people from the community, as we have two recent examples, of which the Ministry says in answer to Government Accounting, by permission of a president: U.S. government ambassadors, e.g. from politics, business and cultural life, have experience with comparable jobs, have rich knowledge of international affairs, and are a good addition to the human resources of the Ministry. This is the only reason the Ministry has not advertised these positions, all of them so good that the Ministry has chosen and is therefore not likely reason to advertise. This, of course, is a very weak support for that arrangement. Why, then, should we not use this evidence in general to advise government officials? That the political authority, the advisers, has grown so successful in recruiting that it is absolutely unnecessary to have the recruitment process contrary or based on some rational principle? Of course, there is no reason for this exception. But it seems to me that there is a clear requirement to the court that this exception from the state-of-ential service of public employment will simply be canceled. I believe only the case has a clear route through committees and the high Council, especially with recent and highly decisive support and the claim of the State Accounting.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u133	President. I would like to recommend a bill to correct a change in telecommunications law, No. 81/2003 (delivered data storage) 1st par. It reads: 3 mg. 42rd. The law says: "Service companies should inform users about the record preserved at 1st and 2. " and how long they are preserved. Communication companies should inform network users when the requested data is deleted and made anonymous. 2.g. It reads: This law already comes into force. The effect of data on privacy. Dataymmd is, in fact, a pre-enforcement source or in the human language of a premedical intelligence source that poses a serious threat to privacy. Few have described what data storage is doing as well as Edward Snowden in an interview with The Guardian in July 2014. I mean, what he said, by permission of the President: In reality, all the data, in fact, are not the result of its being drawn to the contents. In people's mind, there are all the details related to a certain phone call - when you called, who you called, how long you spoke, and so on. Their motive is then the content, what was said in the conversation. As a spy, you generally have no interest in what was said in the phone call until very late in the spy process. You're interested in the data primarily because they don't lie. When people get involved in criminal behavior, they usually lie in all phone calls. They use passwords and talk about things. So you can never trust what you're listening to, but you can always trust the data, methadone. That is why we can say that they are more uncomfortable, cruel. We can describe the data in such a way that they are similar to the very little thing the detective learns in his research. For example, a private investigator might escort you into a restaurant where you meet a friend or lover. He sees who you met, where you met, and when, and he could even find out what you were talking about, so much, but not quite. He could never know exactly what you were saying. He could not position himself close enough to you, of the danger of exposing himself, in order to hear all that was said. - We can describe the data so that they are similar to the entire range of activity the detective finds out in his research. ▪ The result of all of this is that the governments of the United States and Great Britain, as well as of other Western countries, have actually employed private detectives to monitor every citizen within their borders and beyond, as well as the most irresponsible governments around the world. And all of this happens automatically and precisely and then is stored in data stations, regardless of whether or not it is needed. President. Does anyone here associate with the word data storage, and what does that really mean? I don't think so. This has little meaning for most people because that word does not accurately describe what it means in the real world. But data storage simply means that a digital shadow follows you, much like a shadow: I have a little strange shadow. Usually, you don't think much of the shadow, because it's impossible to grab and hold it. On the other hand, the digital shadow of us can easily be shared, whether between government or private companies, between countries or spies. That is why it is so important to have a clear, undisputed code on which to grasp and store the digital shadow of us. President. Today I proposed the following inquiry to the chairman of the council, which should be associated with the nature of the digital shadow of us, which is called data storage, but it is clear that such a shadow follows all our dealings, whether within the council or outside. The request reads: ▪ How is the maintenance of data resulting from Aldulis's pay on the phone bills made by the Generals on both home and cell phones? Which of the Generals have access to phone accounts and/or public communications data? Does phone accounts include information on the number of the general council members who have called, how long the phone calls are and which numbers have been sent text messages? How long are these data preserved at the council, and how are they being destroyed? President. The law-made defenses do not seem to work, and wiretaps seem to be involved in matters that are not at all serious enough to justify the serious intervention of privacy. This is a means only to be taken in cases of very serious crimes. It has been found that the privacy of Icelandic citizens is not 100 percent secure, and the data cover of the laws of the law has presented a serious threat to the world, but it has proved to be the result of the largest and most serious computer attack in the history of the country made in November 2013 on the Vodafone Communications website. As a result, tens of thousands of customers of Vodafone's personal data leaked onto the Internet. These included bank information, passwords and text messages. The leak included information that does not hear under data storage, such as text message content. This also involved information that was supposed to have been destroyed in accordance with telecommunications regulations. Vodafone has agreed to have made mistakes in the preservation and destruction of the current data. Icelandic surveillance agencies do not seem to have the resources to supervise telecommunications and the obedience of law instructions. If data is not saved, it is clear that a large increase in its implementation is needed and will spend much more money on monitoring institutions for that purpose. President. According to media laws and criminal treatment, the media authorities are under obligation to protect their sources if they wished to be anonymous. The violation of this warrant protection is punishable. Since authorities in the media are very often communicating with media services through telephones or Internet networks, it is clear that sources can be avoided because of data storage. The European Journalist Association has declared that data protection is a threat to the security of sources by creating a situation where statistically it would be easy to identify the source in many cases. So this vast supply of data threatens the freedom of expression by the media and the safety of their sources. The European Court's decision, which fell on April 8 last year, is specifically drawn to two basic European legislations, the privacy and the protection of personal information. This includes identifying the time and location of communication, and determining the frequency of contact between subscribers or registered users with certain individuals over a particular period of time. Furthermore, these data as a whole can provide very detailed information on the individual private life data stored, such as routines, routines, routines, routines, dailys, or other trips, benefits, social and social environments. The Court considers the preservation of the benefit and its delivery to the authorities after incidents to have a serious impact on the basic rights to privacy and protection of personal resources. Furthermore, the fact that data are stored and then used without the knowledge of the subscriber or the registered user is likely to arouse that feeling in the person is the issue of maintaining their privacy. - Who doesn't remember Stasi? In view of the seriousness of the intervention in its privacy and the lack of adequate precautionary measures to ensure that the directive did not exceed the required limits of privacy, the decision was concluded. Prior to the fall of the European Court's decision, the courts of some Member States had judged laws based on the directive because of a decline in privacy. These include the administrative courts of Germany, Romania, Cyprus, Czech Republic, and Bulgaria. After the judgment of the European Court, other countries have joined in, including Austria and the district court in Hague, the Netherlands. At present, an organization fighting for the rights of people on the Internet has raised a lawsuit against the French government because of its data-secret laws. Yesterday, reports were received that the Slovak Supreme Court has invalidated data storage laws in that country that are comparable to those in this country based on a data-exploited directive for the European Union. Since Slovakia's administrative court did as soon as the European Court's sentence fell last year, the collection of data was halted by a preliminary decision. How proud I would have been of my countrymen if we had dared to. This change in data saved was waiting for payment on the Commission and monitoring committee for a year after deciding whether it would be a basis for responding to the European Court's judgment. Unfortunately, the Board of Directors and Commission did not have permission to contribute to this case, there was no greater part on the Committee to do so. With yesterday's sentence, the Court permanently canceled the data cover on the grounds that they seriously opposed the Constitution of privacy and personal information. March 12th. The head of the European Commission declared that the European Commission does not agree to submit new European legislation on data collections in the European Court's judgment. Why must I ask, What are we waiting for? I don't expect this to happen when it comes to the council, coming on the autumn days, but we're going to get on the road to acting like a decent people and making this change in the law. One of the main evidences for data management has been identified as its usefulness in the study of terrorism. It is because of them that data sources were introduced in the wake of the terrorist attacks in Madrid 2003 and London in 2004. However, the Council of Europe has expressed considerable concern that during the legal procedures following this terrorist attack, the basic rights such as freedom of expression, privacy, and a moderate order have not been taken into account. It is quite remarkable to think that the class that has met the greatest challenge to these changes is the Independence Party itself. That's very strange to me, considering the declared civil rights policy of the party. According to government prosecutor information, the data that communications should be maintained primarily in the interest of drug abuse studies. Now many people are becoming aware, even within the police themselves, that this is completely useless information. It takes time for the police to investigate this kind of data, and it's not getting much of it. Criminals have long stopped using the phone to communicate, especially criminals in organized crime, so I don't talk about terrorists. The implementation of data storage is clearly useless, and the very existence of data storage is no one. However, statistics from the German police show that data application has had no significant effect on the number of informed cases, especially on the number of reported serious crimes. A study conducted at the University of Erasmus in Rotterdam found that in 65 cases it was possible to obtain sufficient information about communication in the data stored by a communications firm due to internal accounting without special data storage. A report published by the European Digital Rights (EDRi) showed that in Germany, 6 million crime studies of 6 million a year were less than 0.01% of subjects that significantly changed the research because of lack of stored data. Similar data have not been received from the State Marshal's office despite an attempt to obtain them. According to the Access Info Europe, governments have not been able to provide sufficient evidence for large and stable waters throughout the European Union, not to mention over 300 thousand people. On average, each European was registered for data storage - and now listen carefully - once every six minutes in 2010. This has indeed increased. According to Danish statistics, on average, every Danish citizen is registered 225 times a day. The bill suggests that telecommunication laws on data disposal will be removed, and communications companies will no longer be required to preserve the credit report on telecommunications travel for six months. Despite the decommissionment of data sources, telecommunications companies have continued to preserve communications traffic data in order to deliver communications and communications data in support of accounts. The preparation of the bill was considered to define exactly which data to preserve and for how long. Upon closer examination, it was not advisable to go that way, but it may be very difficult to list it in the lyrics of the law. Communicators can have different levels of activity, and then the landscape in this sector can change dramatically. So it is not proper to place telecommunications companies too narrow a law code to decide how they operate their accounts and records. President. Transporters feel that it is right to continue in verses 1 and 2. 42rd. The law that telecommunications companies preserve only the necessary data on the one hand and on the other, a billing and delete such data as they are no longer needed. To ensure that a communications company will follow these requirements, they will have to inform users about the source data provided at 1st and 2 mg respectively. 42rd. and the period they will be preserved. Communication companies will also be obliged to inform their customers about the destruction and destruction of data. It is suggested in the bill that instead of the data issue a new 3 mg. 42rd. the obligation of communications companies to inform users of the data preserved by telecommunications and billmaking and the duration of the data. I'd like to finally, Mr. President, only to cover the sister bill with the data storage bill. It is very important that there are laws at the same time. I know that there is in general a great deal of support for this change in the Council. That bill suggests that police access criteria will be met. If this bill is legal and obligatory to telecommunications companies to preserve communications data for the police, then the decision remains to be taken whether the police should have access to the data that companies themselves observe, e.g. On account of the billing. It's 80 p.m. The police can request these data from the telecommunications agencies. However, the requirement for the police to receive such data is seriously faulty in the current criminal treatment laws. In the European Court's court of Justice, for example, the availability of this information is not dependent on the serious crime involved. The criminal treatment laws allow the police to demand access to communications data only if they feel that they benefit from it, regardless of how it breaks down. Thus, with this bill, a bill has been submitted to these views. In a bill on a deck. 1129 submitted by this bill is suggested that communication data can only be accessed if an investigational fraction can be held in prison for eight years. I certainly hope that members of Parliament will study this matter. We have been greatly reduced by many countries who have decided on the effects of courts as well as the administrative committees and councils that this violates the general rule of privacy. This is, in fact, much more intervention into privacy than was possible before communication and communication. I wish for a good coverage of the bill in the Committee to which it will go, but I don't think it will be considered now that the Council is about to be completed, but I would like to be accepted into a General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u134	V.E.G. President. In the absence of the first transporter, my ass. paritaprevir I speak for the assembly of 42nd in the midst of the congregation, the Össur of Skarphéðinsson. 42 About the Continent of the Ice Age in Lake Þingalval. I'm one of the movers of this council arrangement, but it's moving along with us. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson. The members of Jón Gunnarsson's son, Katrín Júlíusdóttir, Páll Jóhann Pálsson, Páll Valur Björnsson, and Algmund, son of Jónasson. The proposal suggests that the General concluded that the prime minister would be inciting the survival of the ice - age world in the lake system of Tingalval Sea. The task group should be as suggested by the proposal to be four: 1st To evaluate whether or not to improve re-establishment centres where strains are considered to be ill, have disappeared, or where attempts to restore strains are slow. In this regard, among other things, there are special references to the proposed areas connected to the islands in the southern part of the water of the Ul Sea, the Upper Sea, all of it, as well as the Outfall to the mouth of Ephra-Sogs. Before its activation in 1959, the largest and most powerful stocks in the lake were spawned there. That stock was destroyed, but by the resolution of Generalis, which last year was approved through the dam, there is a situation that will create in an attempt to rebuild that part of the structure. However, in the Upper Sow, as well as in the Outpost, the latter was swept away by the great festival day of 1959, when temporary dams broke and the flows of water were absorbed through the newly formed stimulus and into the lake of Ull. 2. To determine the experience of previous releases of the summer stocks and of the year-olds and the digging of fertilized eggs in roulems in order to suggest methods most likely to strengthen or establish new directional strains, especially in the Outposts and Top-Sogi. 3. To explore ways to strengthen the spawning of microchips, such as before the Nesjahun and the Fireburg test. In this regard, it should be noted that the river water is special in that the bottom of it has large cracks, from which great fountains spring, some of which have been found on the shore table with a wide range of spawning roots. Although this is not known outside Iceland, as a North Eastern monasteries senator, I would like to show that in one other place, there is an example of the alcove from fountains, through rivers of lava, and in Lake Moriscos. 4. To see if proper fishing protocols are to be established for all the Lakes in the United States. The Parliamentary Committee, led by the current U.S.A. The Environment and Resource Minister who is also the chairman of the Parliamentary Committee, deserves special commendation for setting strict ground rules for hunting that require that only the prey be caught on fly and that all fished products must be released. Recent information published publicly at a conference in March. Confirming that there was a significant increase in the population of spawning in the Axes River following the decision of the Þingalval Committee. The reason you suggest that you go to the highest level. Prime Ministers ship the staff, but not the highest. Environment and resource minister, or highest. A Minister of industrial activity, however, to address the issues of the National Park as well as the protection of Lake Þingvalala is to the custody of the Ministry of Presidency. Hv. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson, who is the 1st traveller of the case, as previously said for 25 years, has regularly delivered a judicial case in connection with the restoration of the ice age, writing in its great book Urrudan, which changed the knowledge and attitudes of people toward this unique fish, which is likely unique in Iceland's environment. It is safe to say that there is a struggle. A senator's main role was that many measures were taken, which gradually seem to have cleared the edge of a danger zone. For one thing, there is the fact that there is already trouble. 1st flier first began to monitor the spawning tunnel in the Olaza River about 1990, only some years ago were seen in the spawning area, under the bottom of a drinking hole. In the year 2000, they were followed by a release of the bills from the Odefesian strain, which was 2,700,2004, as far as it was concerned. 1 strategist encouraged, along with various other members of the council at that time, e.g. The Guðni of Ágústsson the son of Augustus, and Halldór the Blöndalur. As the number continued to increase, it reached an eighth of the hundred when the Parliamentary commission laid down its rules to hunt and release in 2013. Then, in 2014, large marches leaped upward, and last year, more than 1,100 in the river. So this is a transformation of the state of the root that many thought would simply disappear and that it would hardly be possible to save. This is especially due to a number of measures that can be attributed to regular discussions of action in order to restore the population. 1st of the case used himself before, and many members of the council with him in later years. However, the institution is still small, and, for example, another scientist, Jóhannes Sturlaugsson, who has been funded for years for observation and the study of the plant publicly, is saying two years ago, that the spawning stock in all the water may be less than 1,500 adult fish. Since then, the trunk has grown, but it is clear that there is a need to improve and increase the number of spawning stations. Scientists'experience shows that it is relatively simple by adding a more suitable roulette to the spawning sites, and those areas are just listed in the motion. Then you can ask yourself, " Why does the Allied Council deal specifically with water's life in this way? ' In this connection, I stress that the Council has a special role when it comes to protecting the environment of the Lake Tingalgam, and so on. According to the law, the Allied Council votes for a member of the Þingalval Committee, made up of seven members of the Parliament, governing the national park, covering the northern waters and the Öxará. The Parliamentary Committee, commissioned by the General Assembly, not only directs the park's affairs as it has created by its own creation to this day but also the welfare of the environment in the Lake of Þingvalala and the rest of the plant. There are various reasons why the Council has used measures to strengthen the waste and has considered it reasonable to discuss the situation repeatedly in its sales over the past decades. In view of these links between the Council and the Lake of Þingalva, it is only natural that its subject is discussed regularly in these sales. In fact, the history of theurran and of the Generals is a pleasant thing to do. It may be as if in a paper with the synoptic proposal that his most important spawning grounds today are in a short chapter just below a drinking hole, a microdose from which the General Assembly was established and stood for centuries. In that light, the Allied council certainly carries out the blood for duty. This proposal is, in effect, a continuation of another action previously used by the General to restore the war that was almost lost in its time. It suggests further action, small and simple measures that could still be trusted and that could increase the urban population in the water. I'm sure the General will agree with her after a normal examination. Hv. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's osstensibly traced the unique nature of the wildest fish in Lake Þingvalla. He is one of the few remaining strains of the Ice Age, and perhaps the only person in the world who has lived in isolation almost from its closure, about 9 of you. a full course. His unique life - style leads him to a long life, so he has a long time to grow at the feast of famed, tiny Tingivalism, and so it becomes very large. The synopsis shows that this is the largest root known in the world. No longer is news of a 20 - pound growling in Lake Þingalva, and in fact two such ones may have been fished since the start of the spring weather exactly ten days ago. Twenty-five pounds is caught every year. I recall that some time ago, during a Senate speech, it was foretold why. 1stporter to this council concluded that within ten years, 30 pounds would be caught. The growled one last year. The Senator's size makes him absolutely unique in the world. Thus, the genotype, the Ice Age gene that controls this vast size, can be said to be unique and sound reason enough to do everything possible to protect the strain. With the advances of technology and genetics, ice - age genes may become very valuable in the future, and no one can predict today. V.E.G. President. In the 19th century, during times of difficult transportation and long before the flights, the Ice Age was known in its own time far beyond those of the landstones and in the 19th century, at times of difficult times, and at times before the flights, still came here by foreign hunters directly to escape the experience of dealing with the big business, especially with the Top Gun, and can claim that they have brought the largest war in the world. In fact, it is remarkable that in the case of these men, there were many services in the Gímnes, where farmers built a special house to house them, and they had fine revenues of selling their lodgings and refreshments and renting them horses and guidance. Today, transport services in Iceland are being traced to this job crisis, and so it can be said that the Parliament industry is involved in the development of organized transport services in Iceland. There is no doubt that it was because of human activity that the roar almost completely disappeared. The activation in the Upper Sow in 1959 led to that, as explained in a detailed report of the proposal. At that time, they needed electricity and activation in Sugga, which involved the loss of almost decades of major fame in Lake Þingalva. At that time, people were simply not aware of what happened to them. I don't think that men both didn't realize what the big war that lived in the Upper Sowi was a special fish, and they didn't realize how important the river was to him. I recall that last year, the Allied Council agreed to have several members of our council proposed that there would be a fish road between the Lake Tingval and the Upper Seas, where still a considerable amount of water fell to build up the old farm population that lived there. There is a good compromise regarding the impact between the plant and the energy industry, since a fish road is at the same time an opportunity to build up a strong stock and to continue using energy from the Upper Sowi. V.E.G. President. As I traced to the beginning, the measures suggested in this proposal are simple. First, it is to assess from experience which measures have proved to be the best way to strengthen the urban areas of the water, and second, to provide suggestions on improving spawning conditions in various areas in order to improve the survival of the Þingalva summer. Finally, I encourage the United States to accept this matter in a moment. The job board has completed its discussion as soon as I suggest that the proposal be referred to. Business committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u135	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Kristján Möller, for his good report on this matter, would like to say in the beginning that I would have liked to see it. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Aphrodinsson, 1st transporterman of this matter, presents the case. I'd like to say that as a great amateur of sport, and trout in particular, I didn't know much about the ice business before I met the dog. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson. When he handed me a magazine to talk to him about the work that has been done in Lake Þingvall, and why. paritaprevir Kristján Möller was very good at this, and I became more interested in it. We're gonna go for a second. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson is gonna talk about this a lot, including The possibility of whether the ice age could survive in any more waters I'm about to come in after. I also agree with what. A senator may not be impressed with this, but when you look at the ice age scene, it's like a dog. A senator who has survived all these years is remarkable. I would like to read from the report that describes this very briefly, with the permission of a president: ▪ The Ice Age of Lake Þingalva has a unique place among known larvaments. It is the last remnant of a large roar that appeared at the end of the last Ice Age. The defense of unremarkable falls in the Soginian region has survived in isolation for nine thousand years, and it is never mixed with smaller rivers that later covered northern Europe. The Ice Age has unique genotypes that are mostly of advanced age, late puberty, and other things that I didn't know until then. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson, the 1st traveller, told me. The ice - age world takes a break for the most common species of trout. After several spawnings, he pauses for a year or two. It's a theory from the dog. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Aggressor, which he wanted to deny, was going to prove, and I have no doubt about it. What I wanted to come in and encourage a professional committee to look into this matter has happened. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson a couple of times. I'm saying that I'm not an expert on this field, but I encourage that there will be a check on the possibility of finding more lakes with potentially comparable conditions and water, i.e. have a pair of pink powder that has large amounts of small pink, have natural spawning conditions that can spawn, running rivers or fountains, which are looked at as the ice age will be released into more water. This was done in an experimental program in Lake Surgeon in 1974. A small pair of pink and horny stems, like the Lake Tingalgay, were then in Lake Suriname, small and thin pink. Agricultural conditions are present, running water and may be available for the spawning process. Then, in 1974, a spawn of the Ox Sea and the sea was taken from the province of Skaftfells and released into the torrent valleys. This should have been just a strip from Lake Þingalva for observation because this growling is a unique population, like a dog. A senator described, which becomes enormously large and is the only population in the world that reaches that size. For Icelanders, we have water that we could possibly use without threatening ecology in salmon rivers. These waters need to be carefully selected to see if there are four, five, six, seven, even water in the country that could be self-sustained with ice - packd stock and that could collapse there itself. This must be a lake that has not been released, it must be pure pink water, it must be closed water areas so it does not threaten natural salmon fishing. I would like to have the specialised group proposed in this council resolution to be established, or to be consulted on the Committee whether it is possible to add 5 more in the Senate resolution proposal which would include considering whether there is a reason to do so, in view of the fact that we have the virtues that it is possible to distribute it, as well as a number of other lakes to ensure further spread of it. Just like what? A senator came in earlier, I am convinced that the ice age will become extremely important in the future and can become a very valuable resource. Iceland and I have committed ourselves to domestic animals to protect biodiversity. We are here, and we have made a commitment in international agreements to protect the Icelandic goat population, the Icelandic cow, the land mines, and, of course, the Ice Age should apply the same thing. There must be evidence that further water could be applied to the ice age cycle. I'm not going to extend this any more, but this is what I wanted to come in here. I certainly wanted to have this discussion. 1st Transporter, Össur Skarphéðinsson, but I'd like to say that if we do modern technology to increase it, we'll get from each spawn about 5 of you. I'm sorry. It doesn't take many spawns and many chickens to get it started in more waters, and that's what I want to go for. I'm looking at a pro board. This is the case with what it is about to happen. paritaprevir Kristján Möller, sitting on a pro board.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u136	V.E.G. President. I agree with it. paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason said first, with all due respect for the author of the case, why. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller, I would have loved to hear it. paritaprevir Össur Skarphéðinsson is talking about it. I come up as a member of the Parliament Committee committee and think I speak for most members of the Committee when I express my joy in this matter. The present committee and my predecessors in those jobs have given much attention to the concerns of the great crowd and have been very concerned with them. There has been no change, and hopefully there will be no future change, no matter what categories of people on the Þingalde Committee. It is true to say, the Ice Age in Lake Þingalva is an unbreakable part of the diversity and marvelous life - styles in the Lake of Þingalva. It's probably something special in the world. The Senate Committee has used special protection and increase in the abundance of the ice age in many ways. For one thing, it is news that hunting was not permitted in Lake Þingvall until April 20, and no doubt many have been waiting for it but among other counterpriests taken up by the Parliamentary Committee, only until June 1 are allowed to hunt him off. Thereafter, traditional fishing is permitted. This began in the spring of 2014 and has been successful. I would also like to mention that since 1999 a great deal of research has been made in the forest under the leadership of the fisherman Jóhannes Sturlaugsson's son. If I remember correctly, we spent $2 million on a research scholarship to him last year. It's nice to think that earlier in this month, PGE gave 14 million for research on the life of the Lake Tingval, and that makes Jóhannes more than 8 million study the way of life in Lake Þingvalala. This is well and hopefully supports what the motion is about to be called. Also, I would like to assume that the present government and the General have taken quite seriously the importance of this species of fish, while the 1st Shipping puts to the then environmental and resource minister, the highest. Minister Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, asks if the operation to protect him has not made a difference. It's probably undisputed. Finally, I thank the movers for this proposal. It's a fine thing to do for a member of Congress Committee, and I assure you that she will continue to use herself in this case as yet.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u137	V.E.G. President. I would like to recommend a bill for a change in law No. 41/1979 on land cover, economic history and land base. In this matter, we suggest that we pick up a so - called relative belt. It is, in fact, a simple change in the law. Its substance, in simple terms, is defined as being so - called adjacent to a belt in the sense of 33. the United Nations rights agreement. It is expected that a new chapter will be added to the laws in which an adjacent belt will be defined and the rights established by the Icelandic government will be fixed in the adjacent belts and will be set up as it is done on the terms of economic history and land base in I.◯III. the part of the law. This means that the definition will be that the adjacent belt is an area of non-pollutation, which is separated from a total of 24 miles [24 km] from the base lines of land immunity, i.e. We are adding the territory 12 miles [12 km], extending the jurisdictional history of the Icelandic government regarding the 12 miles [12 km] allowed at 33 C.E. the United Nations rights agreement. Throughout the years, the Icelandic government has been unafraid and unafraid to take decisive action and to set the highest standards for ocean rights and relations with other countries on that matter, but we have not used the possibility of expanding the jurisdiction of the United States. The discussion of these rights may be said to have actually fallen only after coastal countries are authorized to take up to 200 miles of economic history because the adjacent belt is, of course, in the financial law, but it is not the same rights that come with it because the rights of economic law do not include the classes that follow the adjacent belt. It's all defined in the contract. If the bill becomes a law, the number of lawsuits that the state has custody over in the region, but this is the case with the coastal state may be responsible for avoiding violations of law and rules on customs, sheep, immigrants or health care in the country or within the country, and on the other hand, to punish the violations of the above and the laws committed on land or within the land barrier. By doing so, the D.A. would provide additional sources of supervision for these important groups, and this would strengthen our position in avoiding violations of law and rules in this area. V.E.G. President. I believe the matter is simple enough to explain itself, but I hope that there will be a good consideration in the Foreign Affairs Committee, where I would like it to be referred to after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u138	A respectable president. I'm an importer on this bill. When this was discussed, I felt that I would be the only one because I've been talking very much about the resources of the country, a respectable president, after I sat down at the council. I'm speaking for Congress later on on, about the same subject. But this is the very thing that we must take into account because we have the right to be a state of international agreements. A pilot, a w. paritaprevir Unnur Konráðsdóttir Konásdótsdótttir, checked out what this adjacent belt is going on and what its role is under international contracts. So I want to thank the senator for putting this matter to work. The case made its decision last year, and this type of bill was decided to be carried out to make this adjustment to the law No. 41/1979 on land cover, economic history and land base. It is important for us to ensure that the Kingdom and us as a nation most of all in international rights, and a part of it is doing so in this way. It's actually adding 12 sailors within the 200 miles of legal history, which we have the more right to defend as a leading authority went over. I am happy that this matter has been established, and I hope that it will be well established in the council. If you don't, I'll encourage the manager. paritaprevir Brá Konráðsdóttir Conspiradó, to move it right here in the fall of the new council, and I also wish to be a associate of that bill, for this is something that we must remember that in the constantly changing world, we will not talk about what it is particularly important to protect ourselves from the efforts of other nations in our jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u139	A respectable president. I present a proposal for a resolution of the definition of Iceland's resources, it's about time. I'm gonna move my case out of the council arrangement itself so that this time it's about to be read. A new legal science is closely related to environmental rights. In accordance with the nature of the problem, the resource rights apply to the rights for the management, use and management of resources. A healthy policy on resource use has not been developed to a significant extent here. One factor that contributes to responsible environmental behavior is that natural resources and the right to use them have merits, although in some cases it may be difficult to consider them to be valuable. Resource is closely linked to the use of natural resources. The right of nations to enjoy their resources is protected in national rights. December 14, 1962, at the UN General Assembly, no. 1803, which deals with national independence in order to assign natural resources. Among other things, it says that the use of natural resources should serve the interests and prosperity of people in that state. This rule has been established in the international agreement on civil and political rights and the international Treaty on economic, social, and cultural rights validated by the General Assembly in August 1979, as per the advertisement of the Government Department of C, and became valid here on November 22, 1979. Two. 1st par. The two treaties put it this way: It does not violate any commitment that results from international economic cooperation, based on the principle of mutual gain, and national rights. It was so in the year 2000 that the Committee for Resources, known as the Council, produced an opinion. The role of the Committee was to deal with resources that are or might become national property. Among other things, there are all the valuables at sea and at the bottom of the economy, as well as in the general population, rights and other outlanded countries, mines on earth, energy in running water, and body temperature. The Commission insisted on developing a consistent policy and control of the use of natural resources in Iceland, which created a well- formed legal frame for the role and responsibility of the State for the disposition and use of natural resources. A respectable president. I call attention to the fact that since this inspection was made in the Committee of Resources, 15 years have passed, and it is time for this to be done quickly and well, and that is happening. As I said in my speech in the previous language, this is especially important in view of the growing and more attendance at our resources. After the turning of a resource committee in 2000, the country around the country has appeared, on land, on a new resource, on the macro, so it is time that these steps are up to date. As we know, the macrol treaties with our neighboring nations have failed, so this is exactly what we are ensuring our control as a nation of resources, such as the U.S. The macro when he enters the jurisdiction, that we will be sure to have authority over him. So it's time. I'm just going to go here to see what the term "Vain Resource" is, but the concept is wide and includes many aspects of society. It is thought that all aspects of the earth, biodiversity, water, sunlight, and air can be considered to be natural resources. Resources can be defined as national property, such as Fish stocks. However, the government's involvement includes many resources other than those directly considered national property. The community itself has taken steps to help protect important aspects of the environment, such as the purity of the atmosphere and set rules on the use of animal strains and other aspects of the environment. Natural resources can be said to be a direct part of consumption, e.g. The outdoors and hunting grounds for wild animals. The resources that are not considered as natural resources are the nature of the problem, e.g. man - made, knowledge systems, databases, and other similar tasks created by man himself. Thus, in the possession of the resources, social debates have been made in many ways, often in many cases. It is said that debates about it often arise each year and that, of course, I refer to the fishing system and, now, the last macrorill bill put forth here at the council that many oppose, so there is an ongoing debate at the council that is lost on how these resources should be handled. A report by the aforementioned resource committee of 2000 was proposed to include a new constitution in which natural resources, not dependent on national rights, would be declared. This has been followed by its party resolution that natural resources should be placed in a constitution. I'd just like to review the arrangement proposed by the Committee, the Resource Committee, which is as follows: ▪ Resources and national rights not dependent on private rights are national property as detailed in the law. Directors of legislation and executives are taking custody, possession and provision of this resource and rights for the nation. The natural resources and national rights of the land must not be sold or permanently given to individuals or legislators. However, they may be authorized to use or use these resources and rights for spending, provided that they are temporary or may be reimbursed as the law is more specific. Such a warrant is protected as an indirect possession rights. A respectable president. I was a member of a board of administration and surveillance committee, and I was responsible for the entire last term dealing with possible changes to the Constitution. There I stressed that the natural resources directive was introduced into a change in proposal for a changed constitution. After much overdue, President, I have come to the conclusion that this is the very best proposal for the natural resources of the constitution to support this proposal. Much effort was put into this law in its time, 15 years ago, when the report was submitted, and it has certainly proved its value and is, as if an article in the constitution should be, has kept true for all these 15 years. So it is very important that the same arrangement be fulfilled, and I know that it is now being carried out by a board of directors who is considering possible changes to the constitution that may then take place in the next General elections. This is a fairly detailed synoptic proposal, as here are sections on the means of resource management, economic assessments of resources and resource rights, as well as at the end of this section, in Section VIII, how nature's resource payment is conducted here, but I'm not going to go over it in my prehistoric speech. I'd like to finally say that this proposal for Congress reads like this, with President's permission: The General concluded to hide the prime minister from the most advanced resource - rights specialists to write a bill that defines in a more complete way what is considered to be a resource in this country and what Iceland's resources are. Artists with me on this matter are why. Karl Garðarsson and Jóhanna, María Sigmundsdóttir. A respectable president. I'll make it my suggestion that the case will be referred to the Environment Committee after the end of this discussion. Is it my hope that there will be a rapid, quick, careful discussion of the Committee so that the interpretation proposal will take effect in us and that it will be accomplished to get our most skilled experts to build a bill where it will be completely met every natural resource in Iceland and whatever it may be, and that will be legally bound.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u140	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you for your background, boy. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, for reviewing the reasons for the contributions of this synonym. I decided to be a associate of it, since I thought it was very timely that there was a clear definition of the resources that would enter the law. As indicated in chapter I of this report, one of the factors that contribute to responsible environmental behavior is to think of natural resources and the right to use them as valuable, although it may be difficult to consider them to be valuable. On the other hand, if we do not want to put a price on them, the cost can be very high. Here we list what could be the resources of national property, and all the resources in sea and seabeds within the economy, as well as in the public and the rest of the country and remote countries, mines, energy in running water and earth, and I think it is very necessary, from yesterday's discussion of the work of the Wild Committee, that it should be completed as early as it would be clearly defined where the resources are. Like what? paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir pointed out that they were 15 years from the publication of the Committee of Resources. Since then, there has been reason to complete this work not only because of induction of resources but also because of a conflict between whether the resources are to be paid and what to pay, whether or not they are using resources for national resources, etc. I'm very pleased to see how well-sustained the resources are being developed in the Parliamentary arrangement. It's good that this is clear, as well as the fact that the vegetation produced by resources is used to sustain it so that we are not walking on it. I'd like to point out VI as well. part of the report on ways to resource management. Resource management techniques include four factors; the property vessel, correction and improvements or so-called green taxes, limits and technical requirements. I count a third past, limits are often forgotten in this discussion, but the first two methods of resource management may be the most economically efficient. However, we've been talking more about currency and control, but I'd like to point out in this context that we have to look at the currency in relation to the distribution of the resources. I think that if this council proposal succeeds, it can help us with more work in terms of Iceland's nature.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u141	V.E.G. President. Here's a proposal to make a resolution on the planning of long-term national interest plans, which I consider very interesting and deserving of a good and urgent coverage here at the General Assembly. The first messenger of the proposal is why. paritaprevir J. Sigfusson's Sigfússon and other transporters have a problem. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson, Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson and Oddný G. Harðardóttir. The purpose of the proposal is to put Prime Minister on behalf of the European Commission to begin planning long-term national interest plans for Iceland. What Prime Ministers are assigned to do is to work to develop economic models and projections that allow long - term predictions of the likely national economy, and where potential influence becomes more likely a national trend. There'll be a lot of looking ahead, i.e. not for years but decades and just throughout the century, and there will be a more likely or more likely development of social, environmental, or demographic factors, which would be a part of such long - term plan. We'd assess Iceland's strengths and weaknesses on nature and environment, land space, geographic area and population to name something. What I consider most important is the fact that there will be an example of possible generation accounts in which the lot of present generations will be compared to the lot of those who will live in the country over a few decades, i.e. The generations that will be ruling and controlling this society at the end of this system of things and even before. Of course, there are generations of our children here today, our grandchildren, and even grandchildren. I think it's very important in a world where the resources in the country and even the resources in the world often run very carefully that we see how what we're doing here today will affect future generations. The concept of the Parliamentary decree is that Prime Ministers ship a task management to prepare this project and call together at this site a broad band of representatives of the labour market, rural society, the educational and scientific community, and public organizations, as well as representatives of the government, i.e. consult and organize. So here it is proposed a very broad approach to how to work, or consider, the preparation of such national agendas. I wanted to come up here to state that I am accepting the objective of this Parliamentary arrangement as described in a report, i.e. to help achieve the long-term collection of data on the basis of national interest programmes for Icelandic society and to work on such programmes and use them in social policies. I want to stress that I think it is a very important task that we look ahead and use the best possible ways to set up predictions and prepare and the generations that will happen to us.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u142	V.E.G. President. I recommend a proposal for a interpretation of growing studies in milk science. Suggestion is proposed to assign the Minister of Education and Culture to employ a review of the preparation of milk studies to ensure that Icelandic students will be made available for such studies. In my report, I review some of the reasons why I bring up the Senate resolution proposal, which assumes a more efficient review of a future study of milk science. The modern system is actually out - of - date and is not meant to ensure that it is the best knowledge in the field here. We have received information from Iceland's Lactologists Association, who made a conclusion that was actually ignored in their industry because they point to a large number of unskilled milk experts, thinking that it could affect both the quality and the production security of this article. There are few educated people who do this work that all too much stress is in skilled people who work in processing areas. This is too much for them to put their arms around it. We have to get going because there are so few graduates in the next few years, and no one until 2018 reminds me, and while more and more people fall out of the article, i.e. I'm gonna retire. It is not the job of the Senate to determine which study people are choosing to study, we should not be directing it, but if we were to take on that role, we should be more concerned with the number of most popular parties in the local college. This country has been interested in this study. It has been a way for the Icelanders to go to it, but it stopped when the Danites changed their laws about the learning of foreigners in that country. There's a demand for study, so I think it's our job to answer that call. According to the U.S. Galactian Association, over 70 people work in the milk industry, but milk experts also do many other jobs. They're working on to-to-dos, farmhouses, i.e. brewery factories, pharmaceutical industry, carnivores, and health care. They not only produce yogurt and milk. Lactology is actually the basis for our work on good dairy products. By having educated dairy experts, we can work as good as possible. We have concluded at the General Assembly not to promote agricultural production and promote a presentation outside the landstones, etc. and I think this is going to hold hands, we have to have people with the right education to be in the production of dairy products, in research and product development. It has been noted on the Iceland's Lactologists Association that studies of dairy experts take place in Denmark, and that country has been our foremost associate in this study, even though other schools exist. For one thing, I have heard of this study in Britain. The educational committee of the milk industry organizes these matters, i.e. to study individuals. The study takes three years and reaches high school, ending in a boy's test. So far, they taught it at Kold College School in Odins. The study is made up of both literary and practical items and is a so - called round study where individuals can stay outside and take something at home and cooperate with dairy stations on foreign soil but also at home. The timing of student contracts differs somewhat, and there are cases that students had to wait a considerable time for the completion of the Congregation Book Study process until finally they reached the test of a boy. There is also a flaw, but the work program is being done at the same time as teaching. Businesses can request to care for the parts of the study and if they choose to do so, companies must be recognized and are special requirements there. It must be done to ensure that students receive training and receive a certain knowledge through education, and the Teaching Committee needs to accept the students who apply for the study. The cooperation between Iceland and Denmark over milk studies over the past few decades is based on the cooperation of the Teaching Committee I mentioned earlier, and Kold College, Odinsé. Three years ago, school fees were collected. They focus solely on foreign students in Denmark. Denmark was trying to control the large number of people from Eastern Europe and elsewhere that were taken over the schools, there were a lot of people, and they were trying to control it better. I think Iceland and I have fallen asleep a bit on our watch to keep our people going to this school through our contracts. These are high expenses and are totally independent of living and traveling. It was also so that students could escape the school fees if they worked for an processing station abroad, but we have brought no Icelandic students into Danish milking. It's been working on this for a very long time and kind of too long. As I said before, there are a lot of people getting retired, and there are also people waiting at home for hope and hope, who have worked within the sector, hoping that one day they'll get the call that they'll get out. Although there is interest and ambition, most people have given up on learning. It has also been observed whether the modern milk industry can and wants to take on the ups and downs in learning costs, but as they escape, they may not see their interests in paying it. Then they may have to wait for maybe four years before students get into the study. We are in a situation where no Iceland has been signed for the past three years. I recently heard about one new contract at the Lazy Continental on milk studies. I think it is important that we immediately have all the ways we can go to solve this problem and make it easier for our students to get into the study and make sure that milk science will remain exemplary in this country, since it has been. Another form of filming or reviewing the agreements with Dani might be considered, unless the United States has another way of solving the problems of high education.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u143	A respectable president. I want to agree with what. paritaprevir Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir and say that I think it's a very positive matter. As a result, I would like to say a few words about education in food production, agriculture, and related articles. At the same time, I agree with the concerns she described here that no student had studied milk science during the past three years. Thus, the agreement that has been made with Danina is a small incentive for the Icelanders to go to school. Therefore, I think it is of utmost importance that governments and especially the Ministers of Education and Culture and the General and Education Committee of the Parliament consider whether we need to expand our education in food production in general, all that has to do with food production. We have butchers, carnivores, and other related branches. I am one of those who share opinions with many people here and across groups who believe that in the 21st century and in the decades to come, there is going to be an increase in the rise and massive application of food exports in the United States. This is what we are beginning to see, a growing interest in Icelandic food. People are looking to new markets, such as Asia, Russia, and elsewhere for meat and fish, with dairy products, lamb, and more goods, many parishes there. And if we just look at how population developments are turning out to be in the world, the world's population is growing by less than one country every day. At the same time, the world's groundwater supply is shrinking very much, and the water supply in the world is getting much smaller. More and more frequently, we see reports of droughts, forest fires, and crop failures in some southern parts of the world. All of this suggests that Iceland's competitive position to produce high quality food is good because Iceland is living in the conditions where there is one of the most pure air in the world, and we have the purest water in the world, and we have an enormous means of reaching large amounts of food production, and then with exporting in mind. For this to happen, we must expand agricultural education so that those attending are ready to meet the challenges and the changes needed to make agriculture possible and to grow on land and to become a powerful export, just as the fishing industry did. We also need, just as the bill shows, and it was so well described by what. paritaprevir Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir, promoting education in the workouts, milk sciences, meat processing, and marketing, such as winter. A senator came in. All of this relates to one another, and in the two areas, we need to take action if we are to get our feet in this area as food land. Many now talk about, and it's been part of the discussion that it may be possible for the fishing route and agriculture to go together and be marketed as food from the north, ◯arctic fish, or something like that. And if they're going to do this, they're going to have to look to the future, especially the agriculture, because we're getting a lot ahead of ourselves in this. Here we see the most powerful corporations in the area of fish development, Marel, 3X, Roft, and other companies in which there are becoming high - tech and exporting precisely because of this food industry. I encourage the committee that causes the matter to look at whether there is a reason for further discussions as well and whether we do not need to go beyond all the education involved in postproduction, marketing, development, technology, and other activities in the food industry. Lactology is certainly a part of it. Like what? paritaprevir Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir came in, of course, is concerned that people do not get enough education. At the same time, and I'm not going to belittle it, hundreds of lawyers graduate from law every year, business experts, etc. All of these are important jobs in one nation, but we have access to food production, and we need to see more people educated in that area. I don't think it's wrong for governments to try to get more people on that path and to learn about it, milk science in this case, because in the long run it's extremely important. Iceland's got a lot of malnourished land. Iceland has a lot of water, it's a good facility for production of high quality food, but we need to care for those working on that branch, processing, and so forth. This motion is what it's all about. The senator aims to do so. I want to congratulate the senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u144	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying something with a what. paritaprevir Ásmundur The Einar Daðason, thanking him for his support in support of the council decree I made here. The reason why it is difficult for individuals to learn from foreign lands about food, processing, and development is that it is a great awakening to other nations in these matters. It has also been shown that people here are ready to produce food and that we need to create an environment for people who are prepared to process their agricultural products. So maybe I'd like to ask the senator if he can predict a greater chance of cooperation between school in the country on agri-environmental education and whether he can provide them with the same potential for modern development and development as he has been in the fishing road. Recently, I saw the ideas of agricultural students at the National Farmer University of Iceland, where they were building not only tools and tools to use in various farmings but also designing themselves. So I believe these ideas have gone a little further with us. All we have to do is create an environment for this to come true.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u145	A respectable president. Yeah, I want to say the word. A senator of what was presented here. For food and agricultural education, I'd like to see a huge increase in the focus of the Icelandic government. That's why I like this suggestion. This needs to be looked at, and we need to increase the basic education of those who want to work on agriculture, the making of food. We also need to expand our education and research by those who want to process the work done in this article. Iceland can become a model in this area in agriculture, such as fishing roads. Agricultural agriculture in the broad order of time, and the climate conditions here, can become a model for many areas in North America, northern Europe, Mongolia, and norther parts of Russia. In these areas there are tremendous opportunities for food production. In the agricultural environment we live in here and in the weather conditions here, the long winters and short summers, we are supposed to be number one in the world in technology, technology, education, farming, and all of this. That's what I think the Icelandic government should be planning, but that's why we need big extra food production and big extra education. The key to reaching this place, being this powerful food export and being able to build up the same way that the fishing road, is to educate people. That's exactly what this suggestion is. A senator assumes, and that's why she's so positive.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u146	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir for putting up this matter. It only expands the field of view that we senators have to look to, as shown in the Sermon on the Mount. paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason. These are ways we're supposed to go, so few people in such a large country, to attend education abroad. In the past, two or three individuals annually went to Denmark to study milk science, but this proposal for Congress suggests that this has not been the case in the past three years. It's very shocking, especially since Iceland can do so much better, both in agriculture and in gardening. V.E.G. President. I'd like to inform it here that I've been a spokesman for a study that very few practice but is available in this country, e.g. Study of floral decorations - I have put them into a budget board and elsewhere - be sure to check whether it is possible to negotiate with foreign schools, Denmark or Norway, for example, where the trade is very early, and purchases equal to two or three student levels and therefore put them down here on the country. I believe it is extremely expensive for the Icelandic government to pursue a study that so few do. I could further expand this in the garden. We could send out hardworking, powerful people to study forestberrys, Arctic strawberrys. There are so many things going on now that Iceland and I can go to produce if there are ideas. For example, on how Icelandic gardeners stand in their place, after the 2008 collapse of the bank, when all the crops of farmers'crops had been cut down, some people who had invested in vast greenhouses went to grow forest berries that had not been done before in the country; and there are countless possibilities. I would like to refer to the members of the Parliament's Education Committee to use this interpretation form, however, only if it was for a discussion at the Committee on the question of how to look at other ways, as suggested in this proposal of milk, and thus review the field, how we get the best knowledge into the country by making negotiations with foreign schools, and especially those that are designed to produce in milk, meat, in the ocean road, and in the green sectors that turn to plant crops through the green industry, i.e. In greenhouses. So I rejoice with this suggestion because it is always a pleasure to see forward policy issues appear before the council. They must be used to the full, to open up the discussion and think outside the box. There are far too many people trapped in not seeing the opportunities of this marvelous land, and the grandest human creature living here has to offer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u147	A respectable president. I'd like to recommend this case, please. 647, the bill on sharing information and protecting informers, which is a total law. This is the third time the case is brought here at Congress, once during the last term and twice during this terms. It has matured, making some very positive changes during its lifetime, as it were, of the life span of the bills and the paints. So it was during my last term that I brought this case along with ten or eleven former journalists who were then employed at the General Assembly. During this election period, after some changes, it has been brought together by a group of British future members and Pirata. The first donation has been made into account by the reviews and comments received, and during the last winter, in fact, until now a change has been made, so that the situation has made a very positive change in this process, making it possible for us transporters to accept it very well and to feel that it is well handled here at the council. Protecting a informant if one of the tools needed in the bank of a democracy. We are here talking about the cornerstone of democracy, freedom of expression, and the ability of individuals, groups, members of society, to communicate information. It is sometimes referred to as a measure of the health of public discussions and media whether there is any possibility that anything that happens in society will come to pass, that all stories worth saying in society have a way of communicating the truth. Of course, the media is one that, of course, is very important, but then it is simply the tools and tools of individuals to communicate what they think is important. In some cases it may be something that others do not want to do. In some cases it may be that it is information that is directly relevant to the public and that violates the interests of certain enterprises or institutions or managers. To prevent such stories from being covered with silence, it is necessary to have legal provisions that guarantee the legal status of those who have some need to communicate the truth. Me and him. paritaprevir In order to support this matter and the need for it, Birgitta Jónsdóttir will explain the subject's contents of this article. A respectable president. Our report says: The freedom of opinion and expression are of the oldest and most important rights of the citizens and are indisputably one of the foundations of a democratic society. This points directly to the work done in the administrative field and is one of the underlying points of work on a new constitution. The freedom of opinion and expression is protected in 73rd. The republic of Iceland, as well as its protection of Article 10. The European Convention of Human Rights and the 19th paragraph. The UN International Convention on Civil and Political Rights The importance of the protection of freedom of expression is undisputed and greatly weighed in the Icelandic government. The Lawgiver has strengthened the right to comment on more and more matters, and courts have repeatedly recognized the protection of expression freedom on a judicial action. Freedom of speech also brings responsibility, and it can be limited, e.g. for important personal or social interests. In general, however, freedom of expression has been viewed as more readily available in terms of issues relevant to the public, such as political, social, and social discussions. If lawgivers or courts go too far to limit or restrict freedom of expression, the so - called cooling effect can prevent people from expressing themselves on issues that are relevant to the public and in terms of public interest. Social benefit is to prevent conduct that involves error, investigation or, after an incident, inform the public of such behavior when it concerns public interest and even damages the public interests of the world. An important factor in gaining this social benefit is the fact that the Member States, including those who are in a legal position to investigate such wrongdoing, to be informed of it, or to be given the opportunity to respond to it, including the following: in order to take action to prevent the damage caused by such errors or to punish those responsible for such wrongdoing and the damage it may have caused. It should be noted that for decades informers have played a significant role in providing information about the errors of an investigator or even the media, so that the public is informed about such behavior. Many well - known examples from abroad, such as Mark Felt, who became known as Deep Throat, informed journalist Woodward and Bernstein of the errors of Richards Nixons while serving as president of the United States. There were Karen Silkwood, who accused the Kerr-McGee energy company of environmental anomalies and died soon thereafter. Sherron Watkins held a key position in the U.S. energy company Enron. When she announced to the director of the company, Kenneth Lay, a major accounting error in the company, she was reassigned and retired a year later. The most recent international examples are invented by WikiLeaks and Edward Snowdens's informants in the summer of 2013. Snowden discovered the extensive personality profile of the U.S. National Security Agency, the NSA, and the U.S. Intelligence Agency, the CIA, both in the United States and in cooperation with European government. He is now on the run and staying in Russia, but the U.S. government wants him to answer to the charge of the exposure in his country. In this context, the suggestion to provide a political refuge for Snowden was sadly dropped here by the majority of the council at the beginning of this terms. In Icelandic society, informants have also played a vital role in providing information on damages to the public interest. These kinds of issues are regularly discussed in society through the media. Such issues may be of urgent interest to the public, but less has been discussed on the results of the discussion for the person who shared the information with the media, i.e. ... forthe informant. It is common for an employee to be a partner in a company or an institution or a person in other ways closely related to the work involved each time. It is also very common for an employee to be paid for the exposure, such as the loss of his job as a result. A respectable president. It is interesting to review in this context one recent subject that we as a community have gone through, and politics is being dealt with as a very positive way. It's the leak problem that I want to link with this subject because it is of interest to consider the elimination of a former police officer in Reykjavík, the son of Stefán Eiríksson, who had left work in the middle of the leak case but could not explain why. On the other hand, he gave a reference to the Beatles who had a fragment of text that somehow sounded so as to have entered the bathroom window with a silver spoon in her mouth. You may read that something has happened with the police officer in Reykjavík and the former U.S. Marshal. Minister of state. Of course, it is difficult to make direct interpretations, but it is also known the following and what has been learned about the relationship between the former sheriff and the minister. It has been observed that communication that was, in all cases, highly abnormal and that was altogether relevant to the public, i.e. the understanding that appeared in connection with the minister's office of the Ministry, which she conducted, conducted a study of her hands and her application of political authority, in her Ministry's political office. As a result, the chief's method of bringing this matter to the attention could have become quite different if we had legislation that would directly protect a person who had a similar position. The concept behind the code of law presented here is that it cannot be bitten on a person, that it go, and that it accepts the informant's position in a matter of public interest. I'm going to start reading the report that disappeared before I particularly discussed a recent leak problem that we've been through here in the Polish, Iceland. The previously identified consequences of exposure to the informer, and others worse, have the nature of the case according to the effect on the exchange of information as these, since informers must hold back from presenting information for fear of the consequences. They are also also often bound by legal or treatalized confidentiality and silence to their employer and may also be at risk of being exposed accordingly. This may be the case when the law of silence or confidentiality is violated. For similar reasons, the protection of informants at the scene of international institutions has been emphasized, as well as the fact that many countries have already changed laws or have such a process to protect informants, with the goal of urging individuals to share information about error. In international agreements involving the fight against corruption, one of the most important factors in removing and informing of such practices is to help protect those who share information about corruption. Among other things, this refers to 33 C.E. The United Nations Convention on Corruption, validated by Iceland on March 1, 2011. It also refers to the 9th paragraph. The European Parliament's Convention on Personal Depravity, signed on November 4, 1999, but has not validated, and 22 g. The European Parliament's agreement on the legal rights of corruption, validated by Iceland on February 11, 2004. Free and international anticorruption unions have also emphasized the importance of the protection of informers of the law. The Transparancy International Association provides advice, including to informers, as well as to which they have published government guidelines to look into the contract of law-engineering legislation on the protection of informants. In this context it may be possible that this country operates a newly formed organization, a Data Association against corruption, and that they intend to apply for departmentship at the Transparency International. As a result of the fate of fate tonight, at the same time as I'm measuring this case, I was supposed to be introducing this matter to the Conspiracy of Depravity, so sometimes things can happen. The Council of Europe has repeatedly concluded about the need for increased protection of informants. That leads to the highest conclusion of the book No. 1729/2010 and No. 1916/2010. The first conclusion identifies informers as individuals who call attention to a fault that puts other members of society at a particular risk. It is emphasized that the informants are the opportunity to make the parties bear responsibility in society and arms in the fight against corruption and mismanagement, in public but also in the private sector. The conclusion is that there is a lot of pressure in the fear of taking revenge on planned or potential informants. It is noted that in Britain a recent example of a disaster could have been prevented and that this led to the development of progressive laws on the protection of the informants, as discussed later. However, the majority of European Parliament's member countries have passed such extensive laws as Britain on such protection. Of course, there are conflicting rules in the Member States regarding informers. The Council of Europe's Council encourages in its resolution all Member States to review their legislation in relation to the protection of informers, and in particular the various guiding principles to be guided. The guidelines in this conclusion have been guided by the agreement of this bill in that protection of the informants has been kept to a minimum. The key elements of the decision's guidelines are as follows: The guidelines recommend that a wide range of government and private legislation be implemented. Such legislation should allow the exchange of information on illegal behaviours, including Any violations of human rights that threaten or influence the lives, health, freedom, and other interests of individuals covered by administrative regulations and are taxpayers or even shareholders, employees or clients. To protect informants from illegal resignations, legal regulations must be set in the area of work. Then there must be rules in the field of criminal rights and rights, which will protect informants from punishments for mutilation or violation of the law of silence. Finally, the media rules need to be set for the protection of sources. At the same time, action is needed to prevent corruption. It is emphasized that defence legislation should provide informers with an alternative choice but to keep quiet about their knowledge, as well as to encourage the government and the rulers of an enterprise to set up internal rules for informing. This can ensure that the investigation of errors and that information is transmitted to the more powerful members of enterprises or institutions or even beyond if necessary. The ignorant informer's name should be honored unless the informer himself wishes to be known by his name or if it is necessary to report his name in order to prevent a serious and imminent threat to public interest. The law should protect all who, in good faith, take advantage of internal exposure to possible reveries. If there are no internal manifestations or are not working properly, or the informant has reason to believe that they do not work with reference to the content of the information, they should also ensure a possibility of external exposure, including ... intheSecondStateService. A informer should be counted in good faith if he has reason to believe that information is correctly transmitted, even if it is later revealed otherwise. Then the informant should be counted to be in good faith if his conduct with the exposure is neither illegal, illegal, or incorruption. To protect their interests, legislation must be given to informers and correct any wrongs against any informer who is brought to light. It will also serve as a protection against accusations made by wicked faith. Second resolution of the Council of Europe, No. 1916/2010, includes the Council's recommendation to the Council of Ministers to provide guidelines on the protection of informants. At that time, countries are encouraged to check their existing national legislation and to determine whether it will meet the minimum conditions set out in the two conclusions. At the same time, the international agreement for the protection of informants is encouraged. In April 2014, the Minister's Committee agreed to agree on the protection of a informant. The Council of Ministers directs them to the European Parliament's Member States that there is a national system designed to protect individuals in a special working relationship who are reporting or informing about information that is relevant to the threat or danger to the public economy. Further, the directives follow guidelines, similar to those presented in the resolution of the Council of Europe No. 1729/2010. I'm not going to go further into this report and assume that. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir here will take the rest of this matter, for we have both borne the heat and the weight of it as well as the employees, especially the members of our body, to make it as well as it is now. Finally, I want to stress that we have done a lot of work here, not just ours, but in other areas of society. Organizations, public organisations and companies have sent in reviews of the bill that have led to its improvement, and that is why continued work has become very available here at the council. That is why seeing it only a few days ago will make one a little Spanish to see, a respectable president. The secretary of finance is putting up a case here at the council, which may include... This includes examining the need for laws on informers and the changes to be made in the Icelandic legal environment, such as the work being done here, which is complex and extensive has never occurred. Of course, that's a concern, but at least Published that this is a complete bill of law, a universal law on the protection of informers whom the Council shall address. It would have been very desirable if we were to do so. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir could have stood at the same time here on the platform and made this case, but since it can't be done, we've split it between us in this way and I'm giving it over to her.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-30-99.u148	President. First, I want to thank you for the tremendous good cooperation between these two groups, the bright future and the Pirata, in this case. The members of the Parliament certainly have much to say in these reforms on the bill, but it was good for me to say. I think there's got to be one of the priorities of Porta and Bears the future that the bill will be done at this council. It is imperative that the collective legislation for informers become valid, and I hope that other members of Congress are concerned with this matter. I'm going to continue reading out a report that is very useful and interesting to those who want to study these subjects in detail. I'll pick up the van where it went. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall left him: The European Court of Human Rights has also discussed freedom of expression by informers, both as employees and from media sources. In the case of Tillack against Belgium from February 27, 2008, a hot journalist published articles based on confidential information obtained from the European Commission on actions against fraud (OLAF). The European Office suspected the reporter that he had bribed a government employee to hand over the information based on the branches and began an investigation of the leak. When this study proved unsuccessful, the European Office charged the authorities with investigating the leaks and alleged bribes to a government official. This led to a search of the reporter in his home and office and to provide information. The action against the reporter was considered a violation of his freedom of expression by the European Court of Human Rights, as stated in Article 10. European Convention of Human Rights. In Guja Guja Moldaviu's case from February 12, 2008, the prosecution's accuser was a member. He sent a newspaper copy of the letter of the Council of Congress to the prosecution that discussed the case of police accused of hard work, who had requested that the council not be charged with their case. In that letter, the chairman of the council had even a member of the council. Ask the prosecutor if he was in a fight against crime or the police itself. As a result, the newspaper published an article on the efforts of the chairman of Congress to influence the work of the prosecutor and the treatment of the case. For MDE, the defendant claimed that the resignation was a violation of Article 10. The Convention of Human Rights. The Court was particularly concerned with the need for the boundaries of the prosecution's expression freedom of expression in a democratic society, but it was clear that it was measured in the law and was aimed for a legitimate purpose, i.e. to prevent the spread of confidential information. The Court stressed that an employee handles confidential matters with the employer, but for the sake of his job, the official may be able to find out the details of his job, which would be relevant to the public. In evaluating the need for limitation, the court felt that certain things needed to be considered. First, see if a informant could otherwise have communicated information, e.g. by looking first to his superiors. Emerging information to the media should be an emergency strategy if it is unrealistic to consult with superiors or other relevant parties. Second, the Court looked to see if something was clearly identified for the sake of public interest. Third, whether the information revealed was reliable. Fourth, it would be necessary to consider the loss of an employer from exposure. Fifth, see who the impulse of informers was, i.e. whether he identified information in good faith. At the latest, the seriousness of an employee's work would have to be evaluated. The Court used the same method in the case of Heinisch v. Germany from July 21, 2011, which involved a dear nurse who worked for a company in caring for the elderly. The company belonged to the government. A boyfriend repeatedly made comments to the company's manager on the lack of ability to care for patients, including ... witha lawyer. The company rejected the prosecution's charges, and with the aid of a lawyer, she filed a complaint against the company because of fraud, i.e. where it did not render service according to its presentation. When the company became aware of the charges, it responded by disfellowshipping the accuser. In Guja Guja Moldaviu's case, the Court sought to make rules on how to report failures, as well as to show no sign of willingness to act on the behalf of the chairman of Congress. Therefore, it was justified in bringing the information to the media. Furthermore, the Court stressed the interests of the public in the public with the exposure, but it is important that the prosecution uses independence in a democratic society without political influence. Thus, public interests outweigh the prosecution's interests in maintaining confidence in the community. Then the court pointed even. that a complaint's resignation could have a serious effect on the level of cooling. In the Heinisch case against Germany, it was apparent that the accuser had repeatedly tried to reach the ears of his superiors, but in vain. So it was justified to report the case to the police. The Court then felt that the public's interest in getting information on how a patient's equipment at the government has outweighed the business interests of the company and its reputation. In both of these matters, the court concluded that it was a violation of the freedom of expression of the prosecution, according to Article 10. The Convention of Human Rights, i.e. that limitation had not been necessary in a democratic society. Then we review the situation in the countries around us. I don't know if time allows me to cross all the countries, but I'm going to review the situation in Iceland, but I encourage those who are interested in these matters to read the whole report in Norway, Britain, the United States and then Iceland. While a case was previously proposed where it was tried to ensure the reality of the informants'rights, such as the case of the Bryndís Hlöðversdóttir of 130th legislation of change of law to protect a confidential relationship between the media and their sources and to protect employees of state and rural society through information in the interest of the public welfare (Yir. 41, 41 C.E.), no one in Iceland has been responsible for putting total laws to protect the informants until now. Legal protection by the informants of the Icelandic law is largely directed toward those protected as media sources, but media officials are not obliged to report the names of their sources. A law has to do with the permission protection of the media is found in Article 25. Law on Media, No. 38/2011, as well as the Testimony Codes Act on Personal Opposite Opportunities, No. 91/1191, No. 88/2008. The principle is that all those who are invited to do so are under obligation to bear witness to the judgment. At 53rd. Treating private and 119th par. The law on criminal treatment, however, provides an exception to the principle. Based on a team 2.mgr. 53. g. Personal treatment guidelines are observed, e.g. A mediaman, refusing to report who is a source, unless the person involved grants him permission to do so. A similar provision is included in the a-team 2 mg. Ninety-one. law on criminal treatment, although the protection of sources has certain restrictions on the treatment of criminal charges. 3 mg. Ninety-one. We can conclude that if a judge believes that a witness to a decision is able to determine the outcome, he may decide to testify to certain questions, despite the regulations. mg., for the benefit of the answers to the questions is greater than that of confidentiality. Also under criminal treatment, there is a warning about the use of forcedness when it comes to men as a rule on the exception of witnesses. Therefore, researchers cannot reveal who is the informant and hence a source for certain media news stories by e.g. add to data containing 2 mg. Ninety-one. The treatment of criminal cases, compares to 68 C.E. Same song. From the above, it can be noted that when informers do not have the same protection, they do not have much of their own work or home. The protection of a informant in Icelandic dishes could also be seen in Article 13. a Track No. 70/ 1996, on the rights and duties of government workers. It says that it is forbidden to have an employee pay for it to separate appropriate laws from lawbreakers or violations of practices that he has come across in his job. According to law, the next head of the Ministry or State Office, which is not involved himself, is referred to by an appropriate member of the staff. Or the emissary of the Generals might fall under the term or, after, some other office under the control of the administration. The law has not yet been tested in Icelandic courts. However, the representatives of the General Assembly have discussed the increasing focus on public administration, both in the country and abroad, and the status of the public employees in that respect. In view of the efforts of the secretary of state to the chief of police in the capital area (Second No. 8122/2014) states: "My opinion on this matter and the response of the Minister of the Interior to the entrance of the Allegorate, until the letter of my former Minister of State, to me, day after day. On January 8, 2015, I have a reason to remind you that in recent years, increased transparency has been given to the public government, both in the country and abroad. Official employees who believe they have knowledge of law violations or other matters that have not been in accordance with the rules and procedures of the administrative administration have been encouraged to inform the relevant member of the organisation. In particular, it has been discussed whether to enter law or otherwise provide protection from communicating such information with a legal entity without later being bitten. In this regard, the government has suggested that these employees as well as others have the possibility to consult the local councils in which they are active and that it is the agency to evaluate how to handle such indications. An important factor in the development of such a trust in the government is that, for example, the judges of the administration will do so. not paying the head of the management board to provide such information to the health care provider. As we have considered, there is a need for Icelandic law to match the international emphasis that is placed on the added protection of the informants. With a bill this, the plan is to respond to the need and suggest that a legal law be passed on to protect the informants. I'd like to take a quick look at the goal of the bill, by permission of the President: ▪ The aim of these tracks is to: a. contributes to sharing information on errors or prevention of errors, b. ensuring the protection of informants and linked contacts, c. contributes to the access of public interest information and public information. The law is designed to act in such a way that when an informer exposes the information about errors such as corruption and other illegal behavior, he has a measure of protection that he may need. If the sharing of this information violates confidential or confidential law, this law states that the prosecution against informers should be rejected unless the public interests require a lawsuit. Second, because of exposure, personal appeals against informants will be prohibited. Third, it would be forbidden to require a whistleblower, or one aid in exposure, of damages to the reference. Fourth, it would be forbidden to allow the informants and members to pay the price if he distributes information by divulging, ripping, or otherwise ending a contract with him or by reducing his employment salary in another way. Fifth, it would be forbidden to allow any informer or other member related to it to pay if he distributes information by resorting to harmful actions such as discrimination, persecution, harassment, defamation, or public identification without his consent, or other forms of vendetta action. A sixth informer should then have the right to damage the person who causes him economic damage and misdemeanes him because of his criminal, inaccessible conduct, actions, or inactivity directed to the media, according to II. section of the bill. I want to finish these words by remembering Chelsea Manning, perhaps the modern informant who has influenced the discussion of the need for informer's laws and protection. I'd also like to request that this case be taken into account in the General and Education Committee and be discussed. As I said at the beginning of my speech, we view this as top priority and wish it to be paid off by this council.
