ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-14.u1	The president has received a letter, dated September 25th, from Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, 3th. Southk, where it resigns as the Second Vice President of the Generals.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-14.u2	Borist has a letter from the fourth. That's the north side. "J. Sigfusson's Sigfússon, "that he will not be able to stand for Congress in the near future. Today, therefore, at Council II, a deputy on the left of the movement's left is a green bid in the district of I Ingibjörg Þórðardóttir. Þórðardóttir's Ingibjörg's suicide letter has already been investigated and agreed, but she has not taken her place before in the Council and is therefore to sign her vows to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-14.u3	Ingibjörg of Thordddd's Þórðardóttir has signed her commitment to the Constitution and is welcome to serve at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-14.u4	The president would like to announce that this morning at a meeting of a welfare committee, October 5, Páll Valur Björnsson, was elected 2nd President of the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-14.u5	There have been four letters from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs that request an deadline to provide written answers to the following queries: That's what I'm asking for. 89, about the transfer of the housing bar according to the 110% route, from the Vigdís Hauksdóttir, the inquiries for covering. 107, about the blackout of a country partner, from Guðlaugur's house of Þór Þórðarson, a petition for a spell. 108, on the tax-free provision of special property, from Guðlaugur's watch of Þórðarson and on the question of threshing. 109, on the property and income of the people of the land, from the Árni Páll the son of Árnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-14.u6	To answer, Prime Minister, financial and economic minister, health minister, social and housing minister, Environment and Resource Minister, Foreign Minister and Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-14.u7	Mr. President. I'd like to speak to the highest. Prime Minister on climate issues. V.E.G. The prime minister gave a thunder speech to the United Nations in which he described the goals of Iceland to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 40%. News of this was received, and the chairman of Iceland's Natural Protection Association was especially glad to hear it. The prime minister would have gone beyond the proposed reductions in greenhouse gas emissions programmes. Something was drawn along with it later in the day and discussed the cooperation of the European Union and Norway as previously explained by the highest power. Environment Minister. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister, because it is important for him to speak here directly to the Council and to see how this 40% reduction is thought of, whether this is Iceland's contribution alone, or whether this is done in cooperation with others. Second, I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister, because this is a huge issue, how he anticipates that this recession will be achieved, each he considers the most important factors to be involved in the contraction of greenhouse gas emissions, e.g. In terms of transport transport and energy exchange; whether it is considered the industry to be immune to the efforts of Icelanders to achieve these objectives. Yes, it is the same atmosphere, although its systems are different. I'm waiting for the highest. Prime Ministers to make us delegates aware of how he envisions these goals, what we will do to get them, and what news we will be able to bring to other nations during the Paris climate convention in December.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-14.u8	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for having an opportunity to review this case if there is still some misunderstanding about what it involves. But there was no such misunderstanding at this meeting of the United Nations, where all who were gathered there were to discuss the so - called SDG goals fully understood what was meant by this 40% goal, since it is well known, and I now believe that it is. A senator knows it too well, and those who have made a remark to this, to what is meant. This refers to the common objective of Iceland and other EEA countries to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 40% by 2030. It was presented here on June 30 this year, if I recall correctly, that Iceland wanted to participate in this and therefore the expression was specifically referring to Iceland's recent declaration that it was going to take part in this 40% target. This didn't make any sense, that I think, in New York, even though people have seen an opportunity to misunderstanding at home, but it seems that it has become a permanent process. I remember no better than that in the same field last year that I declared something - I don't even remember what it was, a respectable president - and the same man as now, the former head of the Natural Protection Association, has chosen to turn out of it in the same way as in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-14.u9	Mr. President. That's hard to deal with. That's right. The SDG targets, which so easily rhyme with prime minister's initials, are the sustainable objectives of the United Nations, which were adopted by the political goals as I have understood. This may not be directly related to whether Iceland intends to achieve a recession in greenhouse gas emissions alone or in cooperation with the European Union and Norway, so I think it is important that it be presented here if it is the correct understanding that we will do this in cooperation with the European Union and Norway. The other question that I posed up earlier is how we are going to achieve those goals. Whether we are alone or in cooperation with others in order to reach the UN target, we will need to take considerable action. We'll have to make some significant changes. One of the things that have been discussed is the energy exchange in transport I mentioned earlier. We've been talking about the big business. Many factors have been mentioned in the past. If we are going to achieve these goals - as the situation is now for the Paris climate conference, then we are not going to be able to keep the warming at 2°, but we'll be up to 3° if we're all on our side, and we just hope that it's gonna be so -- then it's important that we get the best of ourselves here at the General Assembly on how we're going to achieve our goals. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-14.u10	A respectable president. I'll agree with the last comments. Senator. Icelanders, as reported on June 30, plan to participate in the so-called umbrella targets with EEA to reduce emissions of these gases by 40%. It is important to remember that reducing the use of fossil fuels where possible is extremely important or reducing at least the increase in its use, but making more of renewable green energy. The people of Iceland stand no better than they are, and that's why they listen when the Icelanders discuss these matters. As a result, I believe that we can have very good input into Paris, in addition to sharing in this umbrella goal, since in the field of the environment there is no nation to sustain Iceland's rotation. As a result, we can set a fine example for the other nations of the world. I agree with what. A senator to the next step, one of the big steps that we are currently facing, is switching energy into transport. We start with automobiles, of course, but as an example, it is not far from possible to engage in the same kind of effort on ships and even on airplanes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-14.u11	A respectable president. September 17th. was here an excellent talk under this part of the program. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir and the Top of the Year. Prime Minister Ólöf Nordal on the use of the Order of Dublin. Recently, we saw in the news that the Supreme Court has decreed that two men are now being sent to Italy to make their case more material. Iceland has decided not to take their case on material matters to determine whether or not to provide asylum, but to send them to Italy. During a discussion, the highest was said. Minister of the state that she believed Italy, Greece, and Hungary were not safe. I think that everyone in this room and though more people are looking for them, they agree with me. So we must ask: What do we do now first send these two men out of the country that we know is uncertain? We know that they will come to live in the street, literally, digging in the trash can if it goes well, i.e. if they are not sent back which would be the case if Italy had the opportunity to handle their case. This is already happening. It's clear that there's a violation in the system. I wondered, " Am I making the highest stand? ' Secretary of September 17th is still the same. How's the big one? Minister, is the system working already? I'm also wondering if it's the highest. The minister intends to use us to legalize these problems and start taking up other matters for the chemical treatments and to stop using the Cypress rules, I'm going to abuse her, allow me to say, to send people away without taking their case for material coverage.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-14.u12	V.E.G. President. I appreciate that question. It is true that at the Council of September 17, I declared it that the pressures of the European Union that turn to outer borders were in such a way that people were concerned that it would not be safe to send men back there. I also said it was important, and it is very important in my opinion that our attitude in Iceland was somewhat angry with what men are doing in the countries around us in the face of Dublin's tactics. I have to say, the European Union is considerably involved in these days based on the current situation. Because of the situation in Italy - it is now very difficult for me to talk about special matters, and it is even difficult for me to enter when it is claimed that matters have not been handled materially or that have been done at home materially. Of course, what I was talking about on September 17 was that we are not sending men back to material treatment. I have said this case that it is necessary for us to review these things as we have been doing so so far and to make sure that we do not plunge people into an uncertain environment within countries where men are not sure to be okay. I have therefore requested that she wait to dismiss these trustees to Italy until a proper assessment of how this is now on the basis of the Schengen State, especially in the context of a meeting that I attend in that field this week. However, I would also like to state that then a case can always be taken back to treatment, a foreign agency does. We know of the weaknesses in the Icelandic system, and it is that it takes so long, has taken so long, so unusual, to eliminate these cases that there are examples of individuals who have come into Icelandic society when it comes to deporting them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-14.u13	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister very much for the answer. It is true that the wait here has often been long, and many have even said that it is more inhumane in the system, that people live here for some time because they don't get their way out and can't know if they're going to stay here or not. These are people who have had to live with this for a long time, and I feel that we cannot pretend that they are like the others who have just come on board. We have to be responsible for that delay. We must help people to be paid as quickly as possible. Then I'd like to take a stand and ask the highest. Minister whether his understanding is the same as mine, that we have no obligation to use the Order of Dublin to discard matters that we can take care of here. Does the Minister not think that we should adopt the procedure that there are other issues for physical treatment, and I allow myself to say, " Where the origin of the country is Italy, Greece, or Hungary? '
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-14.u14	A respectable president. Of course, at any time we can make our own decisions. We have. With Italy and Hungary, I believe that this is the way it was so that men have been sending to Italy for young men, but an independent assessment is made of more delicate groups of women and children. It is our decision to work in this way. I'd like to say something about it as much as possible. A senator asks, if we should take a different stand, that I think we have to consider that the refugee problem in Europe is that we make all the decisions we make well considering when we know the consequences and also how such decisions conflict with what humans are trying to do in the continent to deal with this great problem. The other is another matter, and I think it's fundamental that we Icelanders and the Icelandic government must do much better to speed up a trial. [[The president calls.]] Clearly, the weight of this great one is very heavy on those in this situation, and it can cause just such problems that we see today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-14.u15	V.E.G. President. I'm going to cut the same knee as that of a dog. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson. I must say, I regret that the minister's answers have not been clearer and more definitive to his inquiry. The Supreme Court confirmed last week the decision made by the National Institutes of Iceland and Internal Affairs, who had refused to take two men's applications for asylum for the chemical treatment of the country. Not only are these two men but there are other individuals who are now in complete uncertainty about their survival and who are at risk of being expelled from the country. I'm going like a what? A senator who spoke before me to quote the Supreme Court's answer. Minister to ask why. paritaprevir The Steinunn - year - old Þóra's Árnadóttir, September 17th. There, the minister said word for word: The land of Greece is not considered safe. This includes Italy and Hungary; they are also not considered safe countries. It is not safe to send people back there. This is a very clear statement to the minister, and I ask her: Is she not going to follow through these words with the administrative decision at the same time that the European Union has decided to deliver up to 160 thousand of its trustees from Greece, Hungary, and Italy because there are so many inmates there that they are not considered safe there? So we're going to keep sending people out, run away from here really, into complete uncertainty? My question to the highest. Is it true that her clear statement here at council 17 September will not be followed by a administrative decision that no one will be thrown away to these three countries?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-14.u16	A respectable president. I think I simply repeated the words I took on September 17th in an answer I gave to a previous inquiry. It has to be noted that the great crowd that will soon be delivered from two European countries, i.e. Italy and Greece are all individuals who have not received any material treatment. We can have individuals in our system where material treatment was completed in the countries they come from. It's different, but of course it's intertwined in our present discussion because it's so heavy. It's not exactly the same thing, though. However, I noted earlier, and I reiterate that I have asked that these members not be sent back at this time during the ministry's review and the overall context of the shares. It wouldn't be responsible on my part to say anything about anything until I've completely gotten it on how the pot is finished. When that is the case, I can clearly answer that question as a matter of course. A senator wants a clear answer at this point. Then it is very difficult for me to discuss these specific matters. There are all kinds of things that can't be discussed in a council hall, and I don't think it's right for us to do that. I reiterate what I said, this case is for consideration. And I'd also like to say again that what I've been worried about in all this discussion is that, of course, it's not good that we're talking about individuals who've been in Iceland for a considerable number of years before it's over. It may be the biggest weakness we are facing in our Icelandic system, and it is important that it is made up of, that we are helping those who really need help to think it is going fast and safely. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-14.u17	V.E.G. President. I'm not here discussing individual subjects. For example, I used the two Supreme Court judges who died last week, but I also pointed out that there were other individuals who were living in complete uncertainty. It is good for a minister to want to be responsible, but I ask them: " What is responsible for saying in the council at a time that it is not safe to send people to countries like Greece, Italy, and Hungary and then to come a few days later and say that it is still unclear if they are to be done in general with people? Regardless of the status of people, the responsible decision of the European Union, which faces much more pressures because of the European refugee currents, has been made to transport people from these three countries. I'm the highest. The Minister of the Interior State to show similar responsibilities and to show compassion toward the people who have come to us to save their lives and their members and to not send them back to these countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-14.u18	A respectable president. I'm just trying to do it in what I'm doing in this, I'm trying to do it. I just want to say, because these words have often been quoted by me myself, and I have to apologize for having been answering a much more general question than I am doing now, that it has been so, however, when it comes to young men, they have, at least in the far off future, been reassigned to Italy. Not those who are more sensitive. That's just the way it is. Again, I repeat that the situation in Italy and Hungary, and in Greece is very serious everywhere. I wouldn't suggest that this case be considered more carefully, and I wouldn't be giving myself and all of us here in this system time, unless there's a reason. That's why they're doing it, that's why. What I'm asking the council to understand is that today I can go beyond this particular matter. I know why. Of course, a senator was talking about something else in this system. So we're talking about whether it's safe to send people to Italy, yes, or no. [[The president calls.]] We're talking about it, and then I say: This is something that humans need an opportunity to examine very accurately before such an answer is finally given. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-14.u19	A respectable president. I'd like to call for a discussion here and a reply from the Minister of Ministers on the Order of the Supreme Court at the Iceland Supreme Court, where five men have concluded that there should be another man as a high court judge of eight men and one woman. At the same time, I call for a discussion on whether equality laws apply to this specified committee. I would like to hear the viewpoint of the Minister of State, whether this is the correct understanding of the Committee - although it has certainly given some perspective in the media, I would like to bring it up here at the World Council - and whether it envisions to alter the order of this committee so that it reflects more fully the diversity of these two basics of mankind. Similarly, I would like to request - without any personal concern about the individual members of this case, although, of course, they have a name and social security number - to be told if a minister has made a special decision that she is going to apply herself to reconsidering this decision and she will then enter here on the council table.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-14.u20	V.E.G. President. It is quite clear in the law of the courts that a minister appoints a member of the committee. It was decided at the General Assembly to make as much political decisions as could be done by stating this clearly in the law, for two had not been considered as suitable. If that were to happen, it would eventually have to be determined by the Ministry's findings who would be appointed to the office. Then there is the road. A senator mentioned, handling this case before the Council, which in many ways is very difficult. It would soon have to go down there in a great political ditch. I think that's very difficult. What I have mentioned about this matter - let us understand that these orders have been now for five years, the Supreme Court has been appointed on the basis of these regulations for a few years - I think the matter requires that we look over again and more about the order of judges. During the Ministry of State Congress, there has been a bill to legalize the level of interjugation. It has reflected on whether any such rules should be on that bill. It is also possible to take this matter on a specific basis and refer to the way the committee is appointed with a view to having a certain width of the issue in view of its views. A senator mentioned, as well as one of the ecstatic factors that are always appreciated by human experience and employment. There were also others who applied, including the third candidate, without our having to be precise about it. I think this case gives me a reason for that, and I'll take advantage of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-14.u21	A respectable president. I'd like to thank you very much. Minister very much for these answers. I'm glad she plans to do it. I find it hard to believe that with all the variety of fables we have here by qualified people, regardless of how they may be measured at any given time, there are some views that they can never go that those who are finally the most valued in this process are women. I refuse to believe that we live in the reality that only men always stand out as some kind of winner in such a food process. I encourage the minister to change this because I think it has a lot to do with the respect given to the Supreme Court in the community and elsewhere. I also think it's important that we look at it here in this room to continue the progress towards the progress of recovery, the recovery of the sex ratio. In 2015, I feel ashamed that we still have to face this fight. In the meantime, we'll just do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-14.u22	V.E.G. President. We agree that in the Supreme Court, of course, one of the most qualified individuals must be chosen. I am convinced that there can be different sex - sex candidates so that they can be completely clear. I don't have much else to add, but I think it's important that these rules are clear, and they don't need to be discussed. It always ends in some level of assessment, even though the rules are perfect and never will be. It's just a question of where that assessment takes place. In 2010, the Lawgiver's firm desire was not to be measured on the part of a minister. That's what's happening. That's how the law is now. But I think when you're choosing this, it always ends because you have to have room for some food.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-14.u23	President. I still want to ask the highest. Social and Housing Minister on a change in law No. 9/2014, who are about the people who choose, or who have the only option in their financial problems, to go into bankruptcy. This law would provide $250,000. The strength to do so, for it requires asking for bankruptcy. In the case of a married couple who go bankrupt, it is 500,000. that they have to make. I asked the highest. Minister of last year or the end of the last council on this matter. Then, with the permission of a president, she replied: So I'm planning - and it's going to come to a local Senate file - to bring a bill and to introduce it to the government, to change conditions that involve both payment and bankruptcy. A respectable president. Now I've been through the Constitution and I don't see anything suggesting that it's not to change this law, but it's the highest. A minister may be able to tell me more about that. This was clearly shown in the inquiry I made last year, and I think to nine months in 2013 that this option, as in law No. 9/2014, don't work, it just doesn't work. I now have a inquiry inside all year last year and half of this year, so it's gonna be interesting to see it. I'd like to follow it, where's the bill that's going to change it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-14.u24	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for her interest in financial support in paying bail for bankruptcy costs. We are in the Ministry to shut down a written answer to a question. The senator who goes through the applications and reasons for a revelation. I hope I can spread it now this week. It is true that the senator points out that this matter is not in the Constitution that was placed here at the beginning of the council. But we've been working on the case, but it wasn't a costume that I thought it was the right thing to put on the Constitution as it was being distributed this fall. But if we see that we can finish this, including the information we have been getting for reasons of rejection, we will, of course, update the Constitution accordingly. In view of our mutual interest in this matter, I would like to say that we have been considering just what we can do to meet this group. What we have learned from our research is that about half of those who receive a demonstration get it based on the opinion that a credit agent is not using any of the existing financial provisions that are available and then from an agent. We're following it now. Then perhaps it could be possible to meet people by ensuring that they will be helped by other means, especially by adapting, to help in a difficult situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-14.u25	A respectable president. I'm now close to close to what's going on. It was said here to be full of feet - I think it was in May or if it was shown in June - that the case had been presented in the government and it would be held in a Congress sheet in the fall. They're not here yet. They're thinking there at the Ministry of Health. I've said it in the past that there's a lot to think about in the Ministry, but less done, unfortunately. It does not help people who are in such trouble that officials and ministers blow their heads in. These people need some answers. They're people who are really bad at heart. There must be other measures that will benefit these people. V.E.G. A minister had not been patient here four years ago when the people had not received his improvements. Now she's been at the helm for two and a half years, and there's nothing going on.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-14.u26	A respectable president. I still thank the senator for his inquiry. We're working on this. It has been clearly stated, and it says in the budget bill, that there has been a significant decrease in the number of legal cases for a credit agent, which is part of the reason that we are making a great contribution to the Agency. I think it's reflected in the latest figures that were shown about the domestic financial status that the Habitat was publishing about how things are so much better. However, it is this group that I and the senator agree that we especially need to consider, and we are doing it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-14.u27	A respectable president. The concentration of motorists plays a key role in securing freedom to those who are confined to a wheelchair or otherwise restricted to motor activity. From the last century onward, such strength has continued to dwindle, causing us to miss out on the scale of this system of things. However, the number of motorists that increased after a crash was probably one of the larger concentrations of 1 billion. K. into 1.2 million. K. and may show how urgent and urgent the problem was that in the emergency of public finance immediately after a collapse, people decided to raise them a little strength. The situation today is that the lower the strength to buy cars that are cut off by motorists, including motorists. Because they probably have to purchase more expensive editions of cars and place more costs on this scale, 300 yards. K. He also studied 300 yards. K. In the last century. He has simply not raised a dollar for 20 years. There is no other group of people who suggest that such sums do not change. All of this takes on public prices, benefits, strength, payment, and subsidies, all set up on prices from year to year, except for this strength, motor strength. I think we can all agree that for the council, no one is worth it that these levels are especially not valued like others. The higher strength was 1 billion. K. in the last century, before the year 2000. He was then, as I mentioned earlier, up to 1.2 million. K. Because it had become so shamefully low in 2009, and they expected that as soon as the year of government was in progress, people would take on unstealed matters to increase that support. Although the amount has increased from 1 billion. K. into 1.2 million. K. it is likely that the price has doubled during this period of time, so this small increase does not make much of it to right the object of motor impairment in this respect. I had some hopes that the minister of this staff was appointed here to review this grant in January 2014, but now it's Christmas 2015, and it seems to me that by the financial bill, there is no increase in this strength but, on the contrary, in terms of reducing funds to this point, at least As far as I'm concerned, about 50 million. K. between. It may have to do with the compensation and some revenues in it, but the suggestions of the staff appointed themselves by the minister were very good, I think. They were about to correct part of this atrophy, absorb this concentration by half. That would be the cost of over 200 million. K. For a trust fund on a team that hasn't gone up into all this time. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Why does this not take place in the financial bill being presented?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-14.u28	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Hjövar's Hjörvar has directed me to a verbal inquiry as to whether I intend to use myself for an increase in automobile companies to motorists, in line with the motion group's suggestions for reexamination of motorists. In a report of the work group, which is large. A senator went through just his speech, suggested some suggestions that I consider worthy of all attention, and did not merely increase the number of sponsors in the seminary. For example, there are ideas on changes in litigation and regulations on the law of high motorists from automobile purchases and about buying large and modified cars, and that the health insurance agency is pleased with their implementation. It is also suggested that you take up so - called transport resources that favors all those who have been assessed as motorists regardless of automobile property and replace them with improvements due to motor - related vehicles. The evidence for this change is that people who are evaluated as motorists who do not have cars are not supported by the State to meet extra costs for their motor inhibition. Many of these proposals require considerable preparation, as the senator discussed here is discussing the important interests of these people. If part of the case is to be taken to the health insurance agency, it must be done in consultation with health - care ministers and the Agency itself and in the workgroup report, an increased link between the health insurance agency and the health insurance insurance in Iceland, for example, when it comes to choosing a car to ensure that the car is suitable for the vehicle or equipment that needs to be placed in the car. This I think can be done without the law, but will support it and bring about the necessary changes to the current Regulation. In terms of the main content of the council inquiry, regarding the possible rise in reformation, the staff suggested a 50% rise in them and, in addition, a special payment would be paid to those who are first supported by automobile purchases. This, of course, is a major increase, and it is clear that there is no financial warrant for such an increase now or in the budget bill. It should also be noted that in the work group's proposals, the concomitant growth of funding will be expected to be the time between the budgets now five years, extended to six to eight years depending on the type of boost. This was thought of meeting expenses. So I've decided that the duration between granters will remain unchanged for a time, i.e. Five years, but will use me to raise the amount of money needed to buy cars by 20% at this time of the year. I believe that this will be to a considerable degree the suggestions presented in the report, which explains that the budget given to the seminar is limited and that it is not realistic to expect all the suggestions to be carried out on a single board.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-14.u29	V.E.G. President. The suggestions given by a group of workmen to improve the capacity of all to participate in the community. It's a very expensive group of paintings. paritaprevir Helgi's Hjörvar went well over the fact that he was slightly added, but it's far from enough. Now it's the highest light. Minister over the fact that she's going to go up to 20%, but that's not part of the budget bill. So I ask, Will this rise be the case? Then I'd like to point out that the changes proposed by the proposals cost 210 million. V.E.G. A minister says we can't afford it, no, because we need to lower taxes. This is one fine example of who pays for their tax reductions. It is shameful that the social and housing minister should not use more aggressively in the litigation group. Rather, he tells us here that it can't be done because of lack of money. They do not lack money but lack political priorities.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-14.u30	Mr. President. I agree with the last words said here. You see, they lack political priorities, not just in this particular case, but in so many other matters, when it comes to the welfare services as we know it. They discussed this with members of the council who are now in charge during the last term, and it was strange that this was the best time for them to join this group, so it became, as we know, that we had to deal with the aftereffects of the crash. We have been repeatedly reduced income farms despite evidence that this is not the right time, because our rural society tells us that this is not the right time, the elderly, and the poor, to tell us that this is the wrong time. That's why I say again and again and agree with those here who speak that surely it is a pleasure to hear that the Minister is going to add something to the jury, probably at 2nd. The budget, but it has to be done so much better. Now it's better in the community and you don't understand that Iceland's government allows itself to perform this way, i.e. to lower income farms instead of improving the welfare system.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-14.u31	V.E.G. President. I'd like to blend in with the discussion, because I've recently spoken up when discussing a matter of access, and it's certainly a big deal when it comes to access. You see, it is not enough to get into some buildings. It is also necessary to get between individual buildings, and we all know how the public transportation system is when it comes to motorized people. Simply put, vast numbers of motorized individuals must be on modified private cars. They are enormously expensive, so I feel very sad that although a working group has been at work that produced a much better report on support systems in order to facilitate the movement of people's movements, they are not taken to any further notice than to be found in the financial bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-14.u32	A respectable president. A 20% increase in these might be a good first step. But I ask the minister like others here, he has guaranteed the government's support and the budget of the 2nd. of budgets in the next few weeks? Second, don't the minister agree that this is only a first step? Must it not be self - righteous and natural that they are fortified with the same price - worth value and the same benefits that all others are given in the public system? We're going to reimburse all agricultural subsidies for filming. Of course, we raise the entire pay team far beyond that price number with a reward perhaps about 3% more per year. We'll go up to class. There is an automatic calculus in donations to the State's institutions for rising prices from year to year, and thus it could be counted for longer periods of time. Is it not the minister's objective that although this 20% increase was taken at 2rd? and she's secured funding for it, so we'll get this back to the level it was before that dramatic decrease in strength began?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-14.u33	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion. Before I come to the question that has been addressed to me, I would like to reiterate that in the 2016 budget, the priorities for welfare matters are just what I want to do. Sets are 11 billion taps. we've got 2.5 billion who are going to meet our most wealthy families in the rented market. What I said in my reply was, and I'll just repeat it here, with president's permission: ◯ So I've decided that the duration between granters will remain unchanged for a while, i.e. Five years, but will use me to get money to raise the amount of money needed to buy cars by 20% at this time of the year. - Not on the budget bill for next year.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-14.u34	Mr. President. I want to direct you to the highest level. Interior minister for use of shrinks, or fragility levels, which are sometimes referred to in Icelandic language. The question is, what's the highest? A minister intends to apply national legislation or guidelines for use, whether from public authorities who may wish to use these devices or from private sources. The reason for the inquiry that I actually made during the last assembly but did not give an opportunity to answer it is really that we see the drawings, or the fragility, increasingly in general practice of employment, where people even imagine that their means of transporting people will be short - lived instead of men, and we will see that even other services will be performed by the logs will be accomplished. The Amazon Corporation is very interested in using this technology and sending shrinks between packages and packages. I'm not going to discuss how this may affect the general economy, which is a much larger debate. But what we've seen in Iceland is that the public is starting to take advantage of drawings. For example, we have seen a shrink hovering across into a cultural night. I spoke to someone who contacted me this morning and told me that four of them were going to the top of the Esia, where he was walking this weekend. The Constitution Committee has set up rules for use within the Þingalva National Park. There were reports of the drawings being on the air outside the window of the Penitentiary Bank. It all sounds like some kind of science fiction, but it's still like this. Several citizens have contacted me, pointing out that perhaps, as the news is already happening, exciting technologies that can be done great things are being used in all kinds of things. Drones have been seen on a balcony where people are lying in the sun or outside people's windows and are taking pictures of people and thus walking across their privacy. I reiterate that this is an exciting technology that will probably have a lot of impact and change our social life, as many countries have started to make rules about it. The French may be best known for their very extensive regulations, e.g. much was used as a professional in France. I give an example: Vegetarians use drags to monitor their wine fields. There are very clear rules. There are rules in Germany where both government rules and private and professional living can really be found. The Swedes now have their rules. In France these rules are quite high, since they are well - known regulations, and they set, for example, certain conditions for who can fly. There's a certain need for that, at least if they have a specific size. In many places, such rules do not indicate that flight levels are expected to fly above large crowds. In many areas there are restrictions on specific spheres or delicate areas, that it is not normal to have a flight value on a regular flight only at certain times. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This time is far too short to discuss this vast issue. Honorable President, I'm asking the highest. Minister: Will we expect such a rule in this country? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-14.u35	A respectable president. Hv. A senator here asks about the phenomenon that is drawn up. That's what happened to you. paritaprevir Of course, the Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter is a manless vessel that can be controlled, programmed, and led to some extent by her own senses. We know that the drawings are now widely used in Europe for civil purposes in the civil security assessments of infrastructure, photo shoots, and other activities caused by disasters and are also used in Europe, we see, in agriculture. There have been questions about the more extensive use of equipment. There have been questions about the safety of air space, security of people on earth, and, of course, what is worse. A senator came here, questions about privacy. It is important to balance the benefits of these devices with the restrictions they may need to be used. Air travel laws allow for unmanned air travel regulations. So there is no need for specific laws to be considered on this subject. It is possible on the basis of the law to issue a restriction and flight value and, as I say, no need for legislation. At present, there are many programs designed to shape rules. The European Air Safety Agency recently introduced a strategy for unmanned air travel. In 2016 the European Union has established a valid value, but it has been observed in the European Union that prior to employment it is important that national trends are consistent as if there are another flight. As to this particular matter, we have put ourselves in touch with the regulations of the drawings I've been watching. As we have seen, this is a very, very fast case, and you need to wonder how far you're going to go with a great rule in this field. For myself, I have not established any fundamental position in this case that can be based on an opinion in any other way than that, because I think that we are making an immediate presentation on the Ministry Department's Web. It will be done this week. In this Regulation, there is a maximum limit of the allowed limits, weight limits, 30 kg limits, not requiring permission for those below the limits. There's a law on urban areas and close-to-houses, something about other safety issues, I think there's something about the flight as well. There are also limited rules against prisons, that are not being drawn to prisons. So it is such an experiment in these regulations to have some kind of size. I think the next good step is to get into presentation with both stakeholders and the public. As a result, it will be taken into account whether the Regulation, or the current uniform, is suitable for publication and payment, or if any further adjustment is necessary. I feel that we should be careful to adjust our regular needs, but so we have very clear privacy guidelines and, of course, security reasons when we look at these vehicles or french values, I don't know what to say. I may not be able to add much to this at this point, but I reiterate the fact that I publish these regulations.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-14.u36	A respectable president. I wanted to thank you. A senator for recording this case. As all of us love technology and technological advances and the changes they bring - I think these so - called chains are excellent in many ways - there is still much to be avoided. I think it's best for everyone to try to put some restraints on this as everything at first so that the more we start using the shrink, the more we're going to do it, the more we're going to do it, the more we're going to do it, the more we're going to do it. Of course, there must be clear limits, but not too rigid. The best thing to do, then, is to put these things in place as soon as possible, get as many people at the table as possible to use these technologies and to want to use them, as well as those who work with law on personal protection and other laws so that there are rules as soon as possible. I think and I hope we're going to use this to a greater extent for a longer time, but then we'll have to do it wisely. Then it's time to set limits right away.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-14.u37	President. Like others, I want to thank for this discussion. In some ways, this matter comes behind us a little bit. We obviously don't have any legal legislation in this. I wanted to mention two opinions that are involved and that have not been mentioned in the discussion before. First of all, it may be the discussion that has been conducted with a review of nature protection law to set a legal rights there to take special note of the confounding effects of framing in environmental protection areas. There's something to look at. Then comes the other side of that coin, so to speak, because it has also been very controversial about the fact that those who are motorized and confined to a wheelchair can enjoy nature with just the help of drawings. There is evidence that this discussion may have some aspects of it. When people are mobileized, nature may be disturbed by some of the others in the area who are being drawn, causing them to get irritated and to interfere with the natural experience for the person.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-14.u38	A respectable president. I come up here in part to thank you for the discussion, in part because of the fact that I would not be able to take part in this discussion. Drones, or french values, are certainly one of the modern - day technological revolutions. The lawgiver and the government are often far behind when it comes to evolution. At least I think it's in good hands. I look forward to reading this regulations. Fortunately, the basis for flying levels is relatively obvious. There's a personal protection policy, there's a safety point, etc. However, the use in many parts of society is making this much more complex. The exact way this is to be done must be discussed in detail. So I welcome this discussion, and I also trust that the matter will be well covered. I'm not particularly concerned that there will be some terrible rule around this. I'd like to say, though, when it comes to new technology, people tend to be a little scared, normal, but I still suggest we don't set rules unless we see a reason for that. The opportunity lies where we least expect it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-14.u39	Mr. President. This is a need and a good discussion. I agree with that with the highest. Ministers that there must be rules around this new technology, but perhaps a question of how detailed that Regulation is to be. While it may not be a matter of picking up entirely the infinite in that material, there are other aspects, such as nature and other aspects of privacy that need to be considered. I'm picturing a chance in this. Since lucidism is rampant in many parts of the world, it would be impossible for them to take advantage of distances in flattery. Now that I'm in the area where it's very difficult to herd, on the Westland, and I know about many people who are walking around in dangerous ledges and rocks, I just hope that this thing can be used, drawn or fly value, to do faunas and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-14.u40	Mr. President. I appreciate this fine discussion. Let me point out, now in my second speech on this matter, that clear rules will be more likely to enrich the use of frenchness and to decrease employment than the rest. There are examples from France, which was, as I said before, kind of the first state that went into setting rules on use of drawings, and they have been used a great deal in many circumstances, in mines, I called wine farmers, on railroad patrols, and on the other hand. There are endless possibilities. I agree with the people here who have spoken of flattery and other work that there are great opportunities. Keeping clear rules is important. I'm the highest. As shown in her case, a minister is impressed with the presentation rules. It is also important that we consider that there is a security point, that we consider that privacy and that such rules not only apply to the private person's use of the attractions but also clearly which authorities will be able to use drags. I'll go to the police as well as I can. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson has at some point made publicity here, if I recall correctly. We know that technology can be good, but it can also be bad. The news came by this weekend that Pakistan is now the fifth state to lead a pulled-out as killing machines. There are 25 other countries that are considering the use of the lamps as killing machines. There are 30 countries all over, four countries have already gone on this mission. I'd like to use this opportunity here in the end and remind you of a matter I've made and I haven't been allowed to measure yet. It is very important for Iceland to take a clear stand, since those at the top of this field of research also know that the legislation is far too often behind technology. At times, we simply miss the train when we discuss such matters at a assembly. I'm going to go to the top. A minister to the memento of these materials, like I'm going to make the most of it. Minister of state when I have an opportunity to talk to him about other and negative aspects of this technology.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-14.u41	A respectable president. It is natural that all such laws are not more original, so it does not come up with anything special in technical progress. It's always that the system somehow hangs around, but the thinkers are at the front of the class. I'm just taking it with me as we've been through here. I'd like to say what may be a sign that you are now very immature when discussing this matter, that I have considered this Regulation, but do not trust me to determine whether this law should be in your home or something else. That's why I think it's very important for the public to see this, that we just show it to everyone, both to those who are interested in it all, to private people, and to others, and to others, in general presentation. Because of what? paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir specifically mentioned people who were disabled, I was asked earlier today if there was anything about it in this Regulation. I don't think so. I'm still going to make her come out the way she is. I suppose I'll be given a suggestion that I need to see such factors, and then it will be done. I see no reason to wait to show these things, then to have a personal opinion about how this situation will be handled. I think we should take safe steps, don't go any further than necessary, think very carefully about privacy and, of course, security reasons, but make sure that the principle of order is not inhibited by individuals and professional life. We do not want that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-14.u42	Mr. President. I wanted to ask the highest. Minister on his position on a subject that has only been in the recent discussion, that programming becomes part of the obligation of Icelandic children. This matter now makes me think that we're all very aware of this room, especially when we've just discussed fragility and reduced commercial and social standards, that technology is becoming an increasingly important part of society. I remember when I sat on a conference on education with other OECD advisers discussing that the best thing that could be done when it comes to education in developing jobs was to give the children old machinery and teach them how to reinvent it to make them sustainable so that they would not just be recipients of new technology that comes at regular intervals but could help them develop new technologies themselves. The thing that came through my mind was that this likely applies not only to those living in developing countries but also to us who live here in what is sometimes called a developing kingdom. Of course, it is important to make ourselves more independent and to increase our knowledge of the technology that surrounds us throughout our daily lives. Programming is part of the task of forming a primary school course, i.e. Part of technical, but what I want to ask the highest. A minister to see if there is any reason to make this trade higher under the head so that it gets more important. It is part of a technical education program that everyone has to take at some point, but it is a reason to make this subject higher and to some extent associate it with the study of locks to the highest level. A minister has recently spoken of the matter? A doctor is also involved in reading modern technology. We're watching that more and more people do the daily affairs of life revolve around our dealings with tools and tools. It is important that we know how to communicate in our mother tongue, and it is important that we know how to communicate. That is not necessarily so, and there is not necessarily a large part of our fine school systems and fine educational skills that will teach us how to spend time with technology and discuss it. That's why I'm asking about programming in particular, but if it's the highest. A minister has time to discuss the matter, and it would also be interesting to learn about his overall view of these matters. It is my opinion that just how prominently and extensively the technology has become in our daily lives makes it important for everyone to have a foundation in scientific philosophy and science lock, i.e. So we can better appreciate the potential of technology than how we might do it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-14.u43	A respectable president. I'd like to begin my case with thanks to you. A senator for the inquiry. I also draw attention to September 17 of that year. was a programming program in elementary schools for a discussion at the General Assembly during an unprepared question period. It was the premise that they were at ease. paritaprevir Brynhildur S. Björnsdóttir pointed to me for an inquiry that was then submitted in half a row. Parliamentary Parliamentary Parliamentary proposals for this matter, i.e. Programming school programs. On that occasion, I said that there was a serious problem in the school system that students would have the ability to select themselves systematically from real and technical fields, and that choice then affects the combination of university education in this country because of a considerable amount of study being driven by the demand of students. This is what worries me, and this needs to be changed. How important it is that students get the opportunity to get their way immediately at basic school to do research in the field of technology, information, and science, as there is a need to ensure that the school system prepares students well for the future! This is one of the reasons why I speak for knowing that reading supports all other study. On the same occasion, I also said that I would look at it very carefully whether, how, and in what way we should examine programs in elementary school. The 2011 primary school textbooks made it clear the importance of programming for elementary school and were responding to it. As in a previous primary study registry, information and technology are defined as a specific field of study, which ensures that students have the right to the minimum amount of time in their school education in that area. Special driving criteria are set up within information and technology, and they contain the following criteria, with the permission of a respectable president: At the end of the 10th grade, a student can use software in programming and sharing knowledge in a variety of creative ways. So here it is that at the end of elementary school students should have the ability to program. In addition, in many places it is said that students should be able to use different programs at the end of elementary school, e.g. On audio and image processing, configuration of essays and web layouts. The answer to the question "Minister's list of programs to be part of Icelandic children's required schooling is thus: Yes, the study is already according to the primary seminar of basic school a part of Icelandic education. I'm of the opinion that programming plays an important role in student duty and is one of many in the field of information and technology. It is important that students learn how to work on computers, as well as how to work with computers. Perhaps there is a need to sharpen its importance in the primary school syllabus and it will be considered, however, I believe, as noted earlier, that the main curriculum already states which skills students should have had the opportunity to obtain in the field of information and technology at the end of elementary school. However, the application of the teaching itself is in the hands of teachers and schools themselves. Then, in the spring of 2013, I'd like to say that programming was first included in the articles of the main seminars and that schools are expected to have three years to implement the main course. For the past two years, the Ministry has strengthened the fund, which has the responsibility to promote programming and technical education in elementary and higher schools, including by promoting programming courses, using school equipment, promoting training, and re-educing teachers. A respectable president. I have a moment, and since there was a question addressed to me about the total thought of this, I'd like to say that I think it's done pretty well in the syllabus that we've been working on. Of course, it is always considered at any given time how much of the student's time is spent on a unique scale. Follow the goals and plans of the syllabus as well as what is in a fine connotation proposal. A few days ago, members of the British future, which requires that we give special attention to this matter, I believe we have every chance of doing this well. I think we have a good chance to do that. The technical level in general is high in the schools and the children's interest in this area. As a result of computer lock and a variety of other locks, I would like to say that I do not focus on the use of that term, but at times I feel that the term "read " is something far - reaching when understanding is really what is really involved, i.e. to understand the subject. You may call that a lock of understanding. Is it natural to understand nature? Is there an understanding of computers and computer technology? It's all a matter of opinion. But I think it's important to be careful that terms don't completely lose meaning. I don't think that reading should just be defined very narrow, but I would like to warn that it is applied to all things, where understanding can be replaced. It is very important to have accurate understanding and skill in the field of information, to be able to understand information, to work with it, and then to change it. It is vitally important and important to our young ones and young ones'ability to handle the challenges ahead of them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-14.u44	A respectable president. Because of lack of time, I'm not going to turn myself into anything that has been said here. Rather, I'm going to offer a rather brief argument, if I can, that programming should be basic subjective. The teaching of programming should begin very early in education. The question always arises: Is this a professional or political question, and I suggest that we apply it to something like reading or some kind of education about democracy and human rights? Yes, it can be called professional decisions, the distribution will always be professional, or you should think, but the question about the place this place should play in our country's basic knowledge is political, at least In some ways. Maybe it doesn't matter everything, and maybe it's just that I think it's possible. If we're going to lock it in general, I'd like to point out that we're reading and reading the information that communities do. Inevitable communities are more primitive than modern civilizations, and politicians have often made an effort to read in general. I suggest that it is exactly the same when it comes to programming, especially me in these times. Unfortunately, I would have had more time to discuss this, more dignified President, than to finish my case here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-14.u45	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion. I think it's a very important matter that's being discussed here. We've been asleep a bit in this regard. It has been a long time since we knew that there would be demand for people who had power for computers, programmers, and other such people, but somehow we haven't managed to have a policy that aims to graduate more people in this study. For example, the University of Akureyri had to offer programming or computer science to cut them down, that was before failure, because school had to be saved. That's too bad because today we're stuck with the fact that we need a programmer. It's really weird. You look at your children in the schools that know how to use Facebook out and in and everything that has to do with community media, but if we watch excel knowledge and setting up essays and other things, it's often not that much. I think the schools in general need to be much better.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-14.u46	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister and minister. Councilmen here have spoken. This was shown in the case of the highest. Minister, as in the beginning of my case too, that this teaching is to be expected in the main course. When discussing these matters, you may at times feel that you should resolve all issues by putting only more into the main course. I'm not necessarily convinced of that, however, I believe that there is a need for extra work to take in that goal being followed, just so I say. This calls for a teacher's ongoing education, a higher study course, and a better access to the children so that I give them the highest priority. Minister to the honor of it. As I say, things will not necessarily be solved by writing things on paper and putting them in the direction we have, but by the way we bring in what has been put on paper. I'm sure there's a great deal of hope in working on this matter in the school community. As I mentioned earlier, the evidence is heavy, and it is, of course, about how our life is being developed in increasing numbers by technology that is important for us and that we are within the reach of most of us. One point of view is that men in much of the majority of those who have mastered this article are often men. It's interesting when women are very successful in their computer and programming sector. In this regard, we should remember that women will be as much a slave as men. V.E.G. A minister has talked about the reading skills of boys, another factor that would need special consideration for the equality of the sexes. I'm not going to talk about this brief period of time about whether we're using the word of understanding or reading, but no matter how much we look at it, whether the word we choose to use, I think we need increased knowledge, increased understanding, and increased research on technology in general, how we use it, and how we should associate with it. We see very faster technological advances at this point in which I believe, as we have previously seen today, that in some respects the management and lawgiver do not follow this rapid trend. It is important that in school we raise generations that are exactly capable of taking that power into their own hands and having the necessary knowledge, understanding, reading - whatever we call it - to take over that power.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-14.u47	A respectable president. You're absolutely right. One is to write into the main textbook of certain emphasis and another way to introduce it into the school system itself. In this regard, how they succeed in the classroom, the interest of teachers, knowledge, and skills are important. That's why I can say the word "what." Senator, former U.S. Marshal. A minister of education who was just ahead of him for the curriculum that is being worked on is that a teacher's re-education is important. [[Up front.]] I think that, in particular, this case needs to be considered. When we look at these factors in the main textbook, i.e. in general information and technology education, it may be necessary to consider the amount of time assigned to that curriculum in 2011, 2.68% of the total number of times. Then you might wonder, " Does that amount of time reflect the importance of it? ' Senator, former U.S. Marshal. Minister, has been pointing out the importance of these factors. I agree with what. A senator says it's very important. What I will do in the wake of that council decree. Senators of the British Future proposed, and some time ago we were discussed with us in this regard. In view of the emphasis as wind. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, mentioned earlier, wondered if this is an abundance of time. I'm not gonna read about it here, but at least I think it's worth looking at. I also draw attention to what I said before, a respected president, the Ministry in the past two years has given special support to the fund of future scholars, which has the special role of promoting programming and technical education in elementary and advanced schools. Part of the induction is to draw attention to the students by means of, among other things, strengthening this fund. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-14.u48	Mr. President. I'd like to talk to the highest possibles. Ministers on high school matters and disability. The question, then, is, Does a person have financial support on the part of the government to attend higher schools, who he is if he is, and whether he or she is relevant to daily and telecommunications? As we know, there is an ideal disability, many of them at least, nothing to shout at all over. Here, boys and other things have been read, but we are faced with young men and young people being released from school, people with all kinds of problems, and others who are desperate for mental illness, so we do not rely on taking part in daily school but even want to work on distances. Remote therapy is rather expensive, it may not be expensive, but for example, if eight units are taken, you may need to rely up to 54 points. K., which is a lot. The main thing that can be done, as I know, is to look to society or other parties at them. I'm talking about younger people who don't have a trade union support or anything like that. We know that studies show that the lack of education has a negative impact on the job of disabled persons. It has been found that as soon as we educate people, they are more likely to go into the job market. I think, unfortunately, we are faced with the fact that too many individuals who consider themselves to be desperate, who want to go back to school and who have only finished their basic family do not have the thirst or economic grounds to do so. That's why I'm asking about it. Then there is the advantage of the telecommunication, which often suits these people much better. For example, those who have mental disorders feel that they can study in front of the computer at a time when it is suitable for them instead of having to sit in a schoolroom and even be among those who are unable to handle it badly, whether they are in the form of waking up or not for long, etc. This prevents many from going to school, but most of all, the cost is involved. The cost is certainly not the same in all schools, far from it, it differs greatly, but I ask, Is there any strength on the part of the government?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-14.u49	A respectable president. In the beginning, I want to thank you for what I said. 9th. That's the north side. "Bjarken Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir for this inquiry. Hence, it is first to say that disability do not enjoy direct government - oriented financial skills to attend high school or high school. On the other hand, in order to balance the right of all students in high school, I would like to trace some of the advantages of microchiping in studying to other high school students. God's Word, No. 29/2003, the equation concentration of 1st par. In the sense that busa causes a student to have a number of financial problems or to become a user, he or she makes it difficult for him to study. The same law states in Leviticus. that provisions are residence grants, scholarships, or special scholarships as a learning committee are permitted to provide color - colored students. In this way it is emphasized that students'position for study should be balanced wherever they live in the country and whether they live under strong or weak economic conditions. Law on High School, No. 92/2008, please report to Article 34. It should be noted that a minister can grant permission for any particular training course for disabled students. Such courses, called career courses, exist in most of the country's high schools, and pays the Ministry of Education and Culture for Railroads with a special contribution made by applications from the schools. In addition, the Ministry pays a specific amount of money with disabled students outside the field of practice according to schools applications. In recent years, applying this kind of service has greatly increased, and high school has tried to provide students with the appropriate service according to an individual schedule. I'd also like to mention that the Ministry of Education and Culture pays for the sign - language services of students who need it in high school regardless of what they study. Finally, it can be noted that the disabled are driven by local rural areas and that disabled students in high school have the right to drive to and from higher schools according to local rules. According to this, the government has a rich obligation to give students the proper service and support in high school, and it is endeavoring to make all students as high as students for the benefit of all. A respectable president. I'd also like to add that I believe that the fine inquiry of the why. The senator gives us thought to a subject that has actually been discussed earlier, which is the integration of social services, and on the basis of the systems of education. The lines in between can be somewhat vague. I believe that it requires greater consultations between those who are in charge of health and health care on the one hand and those of us who are in charge of education, however, because there are often measures that can be very effective, which can include. reduces the health and health costs of the system if the educational system is properly and well handled. Then, of course, it always comes to where we put our money and how we organize our ministry in this regard, i.e. how much money we have to defend on these matters. I think they need to look at the bigger picture. This is yet another reminder that came to us. I believe we can do better in this field and could mention a few examples in the school system where it would be most desirable to have better cooperation between those in charge of the classes I mentioned and the education system.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-14.u50	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. You see, it's quite right, what he ended up saying, it's a matter of priorities. I agree with him that the integration between these groups has become very urgent, that conversation. I can immediately think of one subject that we are discussing every year, entitled Hostage School in Akureyri. There's a clear example of this. We're talking about people who are even 20 or 25 years old, so we pick them up again. Perhaps at some point they have slipped out of school because of problems in their younger years and are trying to get back in, but they have no confidence in it. As I said before, it lacks both the courage to get back on track, and that's the cost. I've been getting inquiries and phone calls from people who just don't trust themselves to pay for this study because most schools cost their telecommunications a lot more, I think at least 30,000 bucks. from the Academy of Education, otherwise the cost varies from school to school. I'm primarily thinking this from that group. I worked in a career, and I know the support and all that, but I'm more concerned with those people who want to get back into the job market but who, of course, want to get an education first to get out of a situation and not see how to do so because of their financial situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-14.u51	A respectable president. The subject of that group as a boy. A senator's talk is very important. We live in a small community, and each one of us matters. The education system is without doubt the best way we have, the best tool we have to make it possible for each individual to be a good and good member of society. We know that it is a problem in the system that a large percentage of our kids drop out in high school, and much more than they do in other places, and learning progress is much slower here than in other places. We have a problem in this system. One thing we can see, too, that I believe must be faced. Looking at the withdrawal from high school, it is found that the largest proportion is in the 20 - year - old and older age groups. Of course, this points to the study arrangements we have developed for the group. It may not be that the same system they emerged from is necessarily the best system to come back into ten years later, with the same emphasis, a system that is actually built up for another age group. A large proportion of students at this school are at a certain age. It can be a big deal for an adult to start going back to school and sit down with teenagers there for study. Once again: The numbers speak for themselves and show that this is the largest death for those 20 years of age and older. We need to be more ambitious in creating and developing study options for older ones than just showing them into schools designed for those who have a basic background in the age range of 16◯20. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-14.u52	Mr. President. I'd like to let me pick up the fan where it's at the highest level. A minister let him go here in a conversation with what. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir. I must say, Mr. President, I cannot grasp the question of argumentation at the highest. A minister who runs the point that the largest leaving is in his 20's and begins to make it more difficult for those in their late 20's to get into school. I wondered if it's up to the highest level. Ministers to improve the statism by making schools less accessible than they have been before. Then we come to the questions I have to the highest level. Ministers and teachers in high school. It has been reported in the news that this new Institute of Education, now rather odd, has been given an assignment from the highest level. Minister to start planning some kind of audition into high school. Because of what's been discussed in the community, I want to ask the highest. Minister, first of all: What analysis is fundamental to the decision to initiate the test carried out by an audition in high school? Has there been any consultation with the level of rural management to begin with, the administrative level that has been in the elementary school? Second, what was the discussion with the Iceland School Championship and High School Teacher on this decision? Third, please. What is the response of a minister to the fact that the chairman of Iceland's Schoolmaster Society has expressed concern over the persistent instability of the highest. Minister has invited the U.S. High Schools to the remainder of the term? V.E.G. Recently, a minister has reduced one - sided high school by one year down to three years with a decree above, closing his high school for 25 years and older with surprising arguments, as just below, and then when schools are adjusting to this reality, i.e. with 25 years of age and older and the shortcut, the latest story comes from the highest. A minister of education, who seems unable to leave the school level alone by developing according to his laws and with his experts, taking up plans for the application of tests that are completely new in the discussion. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Does this mean anything other than a consistent high school dosing test and the fact that it is still closing the high school stage for young people in the country? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-14.u53	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the inquiry. First of all, because of the last word. A senator about closing high school for the young people in the country would like to refer to a 2008 high school law that clearly establishes that all children 16 through 18 are entitled to secondary education. It is, therefore, never that there is some way to limit it. Of course, it does not exist. First, the question of which analysis is the basis for the decision to start a test course into high school. Now, I would like to state, more dignified President, that I consider the question to be a few signals that there are some grounds in the discussion and then ask questions about them. But I'd like to take this opportunity to mention before I answer her that there are some suggestions in this matter. In 2011 a general school syllabus was released. There are letters and a new assessment system. It actually came with the decision made in 2011 for the new primary curriculum. Since then, there has been an induction process and consultation on these new tests. The point to consider is that with a decision made in 2011 regarding performance criteria, a change in testing had been decided. The tests need to be adjusted for this new approach to the main course of study, both the assessment system itself and the aspects we are going to measure, etc. It's the debate here regarding the test of fitness. Thus, an education agency has not been directly assigned to do an audition in high school, but it is not. On the other hand, this has been discussed, and these tests need to be adjusted, and this aspect of the matter is being examined at the very least. I've said, of course, that I listen to all the comments that come, including, you know. from the school champions who have been concerned that the assessment system developed since 2011 may not provide enough information for them to participate in school. I'd like to state that a few schools are in that position. If so, it will likely be possible to see if there are any possibilities to fulfill their specific wishes. They have not been assigned to prepare an audition as an oral test into high school, so it is completely clear. Hence, the answer to a different question is why. A senator on meeting Iceland's School Masters and High School Teachers on this decision simple: Since this decision has not been made, there has been no consultation. In view of the mass discussion, with regard to the head of the Schoolmasters, they are understandable. We'll go over these matters thoroughly with school champions. But in terms of high school instability, I just want to say it, a respectable president, that more than a year ago, it was presented a target for high school that all university institutions had defined. This is of great importance because when it comes to the shortcut and how it has been won, then, of course, it is fundamental to planning this three - year study. These standards have been successful, and much more of the schools have cut down on their student courses, and that project has gone very well. The discussion here that we're talking about is not going to touch that job. Once again, all the kids in Iceland, all 16 - year - olds who complete high school test leave if they want to go to high school. As a matter of fact, 98◯ 99% of the children do so, and there is no change. Thus, it is in my opinion overhistory that we have a special instability with the shortcut, since some schools that had been running for a few years, some of whom, had already had an excellent experience in the program. A respectable president. Then I'd like to say about getting involved in the school system. Yes, I can, as you can quite admit, I do, but I think there's a reason. There is reason to interfere with the school system in Iceland that 30% of boys and 12% of girls cannot read for their benefit at the end of elementary school. 27 to 28% of the students up from high school enrolled in general high school, and their outcome is that 70% of them are not completed when they are 22 years old, one of the most poor academic careers in OECD at the high school stage ending in that the average age of BS, U.S.A., is 30.6 years, which is the highest known, which means that the average person who lives on the average is an education market. Yes, a respectable president. [[The president calls.]] There is reason to take action.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-14.u54	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Swavarsdótir's Svandís Svavarsdóttir for the inquiry and for bringing up these factors in the high school system at the highest level. The Minister of Education has attacked and proclaimed without having adequate consultation with the council. He has not set up any high school policy for a discussion here at the council. In many of the school and elementary school systems, you also hear a lot of concern about creating a new system of entrance exams in high school to serve a small number of schools that want discrimination on the basis of the raw knowledge criteria but without having some overall idea behind it for study. [[The president calls.]] A man must ask himself, a respectable president - there was something wrong with the clock, I got only 40 seconds for this speech, so I pray that the president will be patient and let me finish his thinking and say: We must be wondering if we have developed a system where a consistent test is no longer enough to give a clear picture of the student's abilities. [[The president calls.]] Then you need to create a new system of entry tests. On the other hand, we have a basic school that is supposed to be based on phone calls, and new tests are constantly being made to verify the knowledge of a student who is constantly being evaluated by phone. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-14.u55	Mr. President. I appreciate this discussion. I think it's very necessary. I just feel like it's a little missing, though. V.E.G. A minister says that there is reason to take action in education, since the results of students and children are not sufficient. I agree that we certainly need to examine it and respond, how we can correct it. The problem is the highest. The Minister has not discussed these matters here at the General Assembly, with professionals and school directors and teachers in the country. There is a need to shape this policy with those who work in the country's education. We have just returned from a week's election, and I heard a lot of anxiety from high school officials in the country, by the effect of cutbacks on the 25 - year rule, but high school is a major source of high - school education. This is due to the fact that during study of books, 25 - year - old students and older students are unattainable. It has a chain effect and does not benefit from education in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-14.u56	President. Thank you very much. Minister for answers as far as they can reach them. A decision to produce an advanced test of fitness, however, points to a change in rate at the end of the 10th grade as a reason for some test of skill. I want to pray to the highest. Minister to speak more clearly in this regard: What is the point of this test of qualifications, and what is the underlying analysis? This is a strictly central requirement over and over again to the highest level. A minister who is primarily forward with one of my mother's things, I am eager to say. There's a reason to take action, says the highest. Minister here repeatedly. Then there's this perfect set of reading boys, lock up girls, what people can do when they're 30 years old, and when they're this and the other thing in Iceland. So says the minister: There is reason to take action. What analysis is fundamental, since the minister finds out about these measures? Why are these measures needed? I must say, a respectable president: I have serious doubts about the Supreme Court. A minister is to be asked on the basis of analyses and knowledge when he says here in the General's symposium that there is good experience with abbreviated high school program. Where are they? Are they lying around somewhere? Is there a good experience of this, and when did that experience come to pass? When did it start? Did it just happen today? When did this fine experience, a respectable president, come up with one - sided and repeated efforts to search through media control, measurements, tests, and screens, and an old - fashioned understanding of what school is all about? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-05-14.u57	A respectable president. As for old - fashioned understanding, I'd like to say that it is not modern or modern to be unable to read for yourself. Also, there is nothing modern about being the OECD that has the most advanced high school careers. And it's not modern or modern, it's not unusual to be the nation that has the highest average age of all when it comes to BA/BS degrees. This means that we are a community in an educational job market. That, a respectable president, is not modern, and it is not modern. For comment as long as possible. Árnason In regard to discrimination against students into high school, I believe that it is not a discrimination against students when high school is faced with the challenge of applying for higher education than is available. Then there is a choice, in which there is no discrimination, a respectable president. About a question from what? paritaprevir (Árni) What questions remain to be answered? Páll's aged Árnason, in order that a test would no longer be sufficient; he asks why all of this is being done. In fact, it has been unplugged, has been taken out years ago, higher schools are not allowed to take advantage of the uniform test taken to examine the student's grades to make decisions as to whether they want to take them into their school or not on the basis of such. I just want to say this so I can't tell you what's going on here. For the discussion of these matters here, I have heard more than once and more than twice in this discourse that no discussion has been made. It must be kept in mind that in 2006, preparation for the legal process began in 2008, including high school. There had been a set of laws, and they are working by it. It is the Council that establishes the law, then the executive is working within them. A respectable president. As for my policies, I put it in a White Book in the summer of 2014, traveling throughout the country, over 33 or 34 open meetings throughout a country where my emphasis, this and others, were set out. At that meeting, there were about 1,500 people, to a minimum, I think, and 500 to 1,600 teachers, where I had a direct conversation. Recently, I have traveled through the country where I have had meetings, talks, and talks with people, rurals, and teachers, because of the reading campaign. [[The president calls.]] I allow myself, a respectable president, to claim that there is a search for equal consultation or as much conversation in education as it has been in recent years. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
