ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u1	Borist has received a letter from the State Department asking for every request in order to give a written answer to a letter on the subject. 371, on the follow-up of a man-selling strategy, from Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir. A letter has also been received from the Department of Economics where request is made in order to give a written answer to a petition for this request. 369, with regard to the agreement of governments and the breakups of fallen financial companies, from Björn Valur Gíslason.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u2	To answer, Secretary of Economic and Economic Affairs, Education and Culture, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Minister of State.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u3	A respectable president. It is quite difficult to understand government policy in the security of the cities, in possession of external borders, and in general security equipment when you read the magazines this morning. This is shocking because there has never been a greater need for clarity in this regard than there has already been a potential danger. We will see in the morning's paper that Prime Minister describes the general trajectory of the Schengen community service. Certainly, it is a very difficult partnership today. It is important to increase the monitoring of the external borders of the cohesion, and it is also very important to be alert to the great danger we face if the Schengen team is no longer involved. However, the prime minister of Iceland is not there, he is the only president of the European Union who declares that Schengen's work is not worth anything. Period. Everyone else is talking about the importance of finding ways to make it work, but the prime minister of Iceland is alone describing the general success and cooperation it has created in opening borders and in ensuring the safety of all of us. I've understood the highest. The Minister of the Interior government will be with us who speak for open borders and cooperates with other countries in these areas. I'd like to hear her confirmation of that. Of course, she's treating this party no matter what. The prime minister said this morning. Besides, I have to ask you a news story this morning about putting weapons in every police car in the next few weeks. V.E.G. Minister has been talking about the police's weapons repairs. Did you not agree to discuss this with the Allied Council? It's a big decision. When should it be discussed? Is that the right news? And when should this factor be discussed?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u4	V.E.G. President. It should come as no surprise to any man that Schengen is discussed right now when so much stress is placed on Schengen's outer border. It is also safe to say that a discussion is actually taking place at Schengen State for the importance of mastering the Schengen outer border. It has also discussed that it is the ultimate key to the progression and the future of Schengen. Nevertheless, we Icelanders in Schengen are behind Schengen, but we must also be ready to discuss the failings of Schengen and how we should react to them. I don't think we should be afraid of that sort of discussion. There is no question that within the Schengen Order, this is important to me, and it may well be necessary for us to have a better discussion of Schengen's adjuncts - they are tools to tighten the borders within the state of Schengen without a change in the system. This has been done in increasing numbers by the state of Schengen. We can see it all around us. Almost every day, we hear of a state feeling compelled to build their borders because of a condition created within the Schengen states. Of course, it reflects the major problem on the outer border. The European Union's men have also described the need to master this outer border. It's number one, two and three. This must be true of humans. I think that's the most important thing. We've talked about it many times in the council sales, I have. I think Schgeren is a very important tool for us, but we also need to realize that in order to achieve the goals he needs to achieve, we need to master Schengen's outer borders.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u5	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of these words. Between me and her, there is no difference of opinion in this regard. Of course, the outer border of Schengen has to be mastered. And of course, it is possible within the framework of the Schengen protocol to temporarily pick up border surveillance in this country if the situation calls for it as well as for risk assessment. What I'm going to do is disagree with the government about and at the highest level. The prime minister is to make general statements that Schengen is not the good, there is no benefit in this cooperation. I'm basically against that, I believe Iceland's made a profit on an open border. I believe there has been an opportunity in Iceland because we've been partying to Schengen and I believe involved in the Schengen database is a fundamental precept for Iceland's ability to dream of welcoming more than a million tourists and building a basic way of building up that is because people move to the country. [[The president calls.]] For example, based on the criteria we had to appreciate the background of people who came to the country before the Schengen community service, it would have been completely impossible to build up tourism in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u6	V.E.G. President. It's quite clear that there's never been such a test of Schengen's cooperation with the state of the world as well as the external borders of Schengen before. Almost all this year, men have tried by various means to approach the challenge of securing the outer border. To date, it has not been sufficiently successful. There will be no time to resolve these problems, and it is important that all the Schengen countries realize it. We also play a role here in the north on the other side of Schengen's outer border, as it were, so this is absolutely important. It may well be that the voice becomes louder in the Schengen states and even within the Minister's Council that there is reason to just pick up border surveillance everywhere as you can, to build the border everywhere as you can do within the rule. That can be done in every state of Schengen. In fact, this is an obligation, a decision may be made, and it may last up to a year. [[The president calls.]] It's fine to have that in mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u7	A respectable president. The newspaper this morning heard that there was a chance that the police were armed with guns in cars, taking pistols, of course in a locked box that cannot be opened but with some code, etc. This is another step in evolution that makes me work again and again on the importance of being on an independent patrol of police in Iceland. It has now been proposed, and it has been called. According to a review of Iceland's police chiefs' union, a good society believes that it is advisable to wait on a case until the charges and complaints against the police give their results. I believe it is important that we discern exactly where that case stands. An ever greater demand is that the police carry weapons, as well as increased authority and so forth. It also requires independent observation on a town, at least on our side of the pirata and on the other hand. There is an ever greater demand for extra funding to the police that I support but, above all, to meet the bounty and the low pay of the police, in my opinion. I'm worried that the money that needs to be given to the police goes on and too early on weapons and stuff before independent surveillance is set up. Therefore, in view of an ever greater demand for weapons and increased police authority, etc., there is an increasingly urgent need to establish the police's independent surveillance. So it is important that the committee submits itself as soon as possible so that we can continue the discussion on this important subject. I wondered when the committee intends to return her findings.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u8	V.E.G. President. I think it's important to learn that the more money that goes to the police, which hopefully will be realized - we need to keep in mind that it is the Allied Council of Iceland who has the legal authority here - but if the budget becomes a reality that I think is extremely positive, it is up to them to be used in certain activities of the police. They are not meant to be paid, but they are expected to go to certain police projects so that they can better care for their duties. These include a number of assignments. A senator knows we've discussed before. Part of law enforcement is always the way the police's protection systems should be handled. It is clear that certain equipment is needed by the law in the country. There must be a man, and there are very rigid human rules. It is important that it be appreciated by the law and that it be followed by very specific rules and evaluate what the police feel the need for them to do in order to fulfill their basic role. It is impossible to overlook the need for the police to have specific equipment. It is according to the nature of the work performed by the police, so let us not fear it, but it is important that there be clear rules and that people know what it involves. Hv. A senator mentions the work that has been going on and the emphasis on the one I also know, i.e. the importance of keeping police work under observation. I think it's very important that there's some transparency when it comes to police work. I think I'll get a report in my hands tomorrow, which is just about going to the police and their treatment. I hope that once that report has been delivered to us at the Ministry, we can proceed with the tips just to increase the confidence we must have in the law of the country and to maintain it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u9	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer and celebrates tomorrow's report. Well, it's more often than not that you have to celebrate the answer. Minister of the state of this town. But I'd like to be perfectly clear that I don't ask in disrespect for the need for the police to have proper equipment and authority to do their job. I'm asking because police work is not properly supervised at the moment. I believe it is important to resolve this situation before furthering up weapons and authority. People are now afraid because of the fear of terrorism, such as related threats, such as hatred of Muslims and other related matters that I don't have time to cross here, and that seems to me to be on the line. I think it's important that we realize that then we're in a hurry to expand our surveillance and, above all, to keep it independent.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u10	V.E.G. President. No decisions have been made on changing the rules regarding police arms, police tactics, or such things. What is being pursued is all on the basis of current rules and within the limits we have already set. How important it is, then, that such changes have not been made! Then it is good that when the report comes to our attention in the Ministry, we review the aspect of the case so that it can play together. But I am stressing that it is important that the police have the circumstances they need in order to fulfill their role and that at the same time they have complete confidence in their work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u11	President. It was a special pleasure here last week, although the occasion was painful when we discussed the reaction of the United States government after the terrorist attacks in Paris. The harmony that appears in the council hall, which in particular I would like to refer to both words at the highest. In that discussion, the secretary of the state and the minister of foreign affairs calmed the people. That tone was important, we were careful and balanced, and we spoke in a voice as we were concerned that we would not allow fear and hatred to take root in us. Now, since then, there have been other voices in the leading community - first to mention the president of Iceland who stepped up and fueled fear and division in society and then the highest. Prime Minister in the Morning Press this morning, saying in an interview that he has never had strong conviction for the involvement of Iceland in the Schengen region, he says it was full-footed. Hv. paritaprevir Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir was in Spatellum this week and thought the event in Paris was no reason to revise Iceland's position in Schengen. It's got the highest. Minister said transfers in Schengen, but I'd like to ask for the highest. Ministers to speak more clearly on behalf of the Icelandic government, on the way in which we are dealing with border control and on the other hand, regarding the position on Schengen.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u12	V.E.G. President. There has been no decision to change the policy of Schengen on the part of the Icelandic government. We are members of Schengen, we are under Schengen's rule, we use Schengen's regulations, and we observe what goes on in Schengen. We are aware of the weaknesses that are now in the Schengen area, of which we are deeply concerned, like any other Schengen State. It is quite clear that there has never been as much pressure on Schengen as it is now, and it is important that it succeeds. That's very basic. The success will have a dramatic effect on the continuation of this cooperation. It's not a worry that just happens in Iceland. These voices are that I intend in all the Schengen countries. It's everyone's concern that the external borders of Schngeren are so broken and everyone wants to get over it. It is a task that must be carried out. It is important that we keep our eyes open to both the advantages and the failings of being a party to Schengen, and we should not be afraid to discuss Schengen's shortcomings even if we need to be aware of the benefits as well. We haven't made any decisions to tighten the border control beyond what is now, so I'm talking about building the Icelandic border. That decision will be made in the presence of a government police official's threat assessment. He can do so at any time or at any time. He closely monitors the need to tighten the borders of Iceland. If such a dangerous assessment is made by the State Marshal, we will, of course, respond. It has not yet come to pass, but the Marshal watches very closely, I reiterate it, and it may come to this very shame in advance, but at this point the decision has not been made to build the Icelandic border.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u13	President. Thank you very much. Minister for making clear, that there has been no policy change here which must be considered of utmost importance in the view of the Supreme Court. Prominently speaking about these matters, the prime minister is not strict. The same interview tells us that the local authorities are inspecting a hard-set border patrol. I think it's the highest. A minister has answered in his first answer to where that work is. I'd like to at the end of my second question to encourage the highest. The minister for the development and development of a new bill to the alien law, which a transnational Senate committee gave to the Minister of the Days and the next step in the matter was to bring the matter before the Minister of Refugees, I would like to encourage the minister to consider the important task of the first, especially in view of the difficult situation today in international affairs. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u14	A respectable president. The bill to the foreigners'law spread in our days, and it will be presented, and, like, as a matter of course. A senator correctly pointed out that it will be taken to the secretary's Committee on Refugees, which will be expected to meet soon as well as to address all the other issues involved in today's delicate times, both in national security and elsewhere, the development of legislation in neighboring countries, etc. All of this is important when we look to the future organization of all these matters. Thus, it will be clear as we continue to do so. I'd like to finally mention that there's something since I've been planning to submit a full security report at the General Assembly, and it's clear that this report will become ever more urgent. I think it's coming to light, and then we can have a much deeper discussion on these matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u15	A respectable president. I'd like to ask a few questions about prison. I have found that this group of people has a slight lack of policy, and I think it is quite clear that he is also funded with financial resources. When prisoners complete the sentence, they are not really accepted by any system, but we have a protection, since very many prisoners can complete the sentence on a less efficient option. I've studied that strategy and I believe it should be further useful. On the other hand, if, for example, prisoners sitting in Akureyri Prison are going to complete a sentence in such a milder amount of resources, they have to go south in protective care. There's no such thing as this in the north. But I know that interest is in setting it up. In fact, even in prisons, prisoners prefer to remain in security rather than go to a less expensive alternative. I'd like to know if there's anything going on in this case. I think it's very important, and even just discrimination from a farm that I don't feel acceptable. I also want to ask about the right prisoners for study. Many things are well done, but studies have been difficult. While many prisoners are interested in toil studies, they need to make time and even accompany them with one of the escorts. It can be expensive here and now, but if we shrink back, it's longer-term savings. Is there a policy when it comes to the access of prisoners to study, to study, to study, or to study the book? I think it's a little random, even going after prisons. It's the highest. The Minister doesn't agree with me that if we manage to educate prisoners and think it's a reform but not a penal staff, it's long-term savings?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u16	A respectable president. It is clear that the reduction in the number of returns in prisons is fundamentally important to us. That must be what we look at the most when we look for abdicating and punishment in general, looking for ways to prevent this routine from taking place, as if we see a lot of it in the Icelandic system. We've been trying to work that way for a lot of years in Iceland. It's not a group of paintings that will be short-lived. This group of paintings has been taken over a very long period of time, and it's just right around the corner. A senator said that it has always been quite difficult to pay for prison affairs. There's nothing new. We can see that both when we look into prison affairs and when we talk about prison space, it's not something that happened yesterday. It has often been difficult to get adequate financial support in prison cases. However, we have taken some recent steps, and of course, it is very important that we are completing the building of a new prison. When it's done, I hope there'll be more tables for other projects. I also state that there is a set of standards in the bill to legalize the full degree of punishment. They are more regarded as reforms and school affairs and to such factors. Although I cannot go to such a short question period deep into the school affairs of prisoners, it is quite clear that there is a willingness to go in that direction, as if to be able to better off a sentence in alternatives to prison. In the present bill for the treatment of the General and Education Committee, there are steps we take in this direction, although there are certainly many who want to do better. They are all a guard on a certain way to achieve our goal of reducing the number of returns to Icelandic prisons.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u17	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. But it's the highest. Ministers agree with me that there must be some means of research, such as Protection in the North as well? I can even imagine that if you're with a prisoner that's why, from Iceland, it might be cheaper to create a special resource, a protection strategy, for one prisoner than to let him remain in a security prison because he may decide that he prefers to be near his family than to go south. Since then, I have noticed something else when I have been studying these matters. I think there's a great lack of psychological services. I don't know how many sociologists work at the Prison Department. In Denmark, each prisoner, as soon as he enters, has been held in his case, where he is heading, what he wants to do, and where he wants to go. I feel like there's a shortage here. I'd love to know if it's the highest. A minister does not agree with me that psychological services and increasing such resources are of good quality. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u18	I can totally agree with that. A senator, a respectable president, is that it is important to consider these factors too. It's probably to inform what I think everyone is aware that we haven't always had enough success in getting doctors to work in our country's prisons, for example. We have been concerned about prisoners'mental health. We've talked about it at the conferences too, and we're now working in that field between recruitments to try to get the system together because it's also important to look at them. It is difficult for prison authorities to deal with such weaknesses when prisoners face emotional difficulties without having someone there to assist them. Clearly, that need to be corrected. They're trying to get men together to get better results there. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u19	Mr. President. V.E.G. The government has for its part agreed to give 400 million. K. ... to back up the local police. Police and administrative authorities are now having problems, and some of them are dealing with a significant exchange. By the end of 2014, it was almost 400 million. K. The highest. The Minister of the Interior Minister has confirmed it here and now 400 million. K. which should be added to the law's management base does not come up with partial or complete tilting? It is very important to have this confirmed that the text is so beautifully expressed in the budget that at the time of analysis of the country's police agencies, there were weaknesses in the work that are critical. They can hardly be shown up next year by paying the angle of the office, can they? The proposed text discusses the distribution of funds based on the results of the assessment of the service and the safety level. The service stage is based on the reporting services, criminal defenses, and studies, but the safety level is determined by the safety that the public can expect to enjoy and the safety that the police can require in carrying out hazardous tasks. The discussion of the proposal of a budget board also stated that the Court's work is the highest priority. A minister stressed the border guard and increased the number of tourists in the implementation of the project. Has the highest. Any idea of the exchange between these factors? Tells you the highest. Minister to 400 million. K. enough to face the weaknesses of the police? But the most important thing is to get clear answers from the highest level. A minister on whether to use the new 400 million to pay the end of the past few years.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u20	V.E.G. President. There has been no decision at this stage how to bring this extra money to the police. It is also quite clear that in order to reach out to the work of the police - and may I put it that way, the commitments on it - you need more than these 400 million. However, they are very important at this point in promoting law enforcement. I don't trust myself to stand here and confirm that these 400 million will in no way be used in any way in order to arrive at a palace due to projects that the police have had to do. I don't trust myself to go so far as to say in this chair in an unprepared time of inquiry how to make arrangements for the money or where they should not do so conclusively. I think it would be unwise for me to do that, and that's not what I'm going to do. But another thing is that it is my opinion that there is a need to add money to a border guard, to tourism, e.g. In the ideal case of both. A senator is the largest international border in Iceland, and it's clear that the country needs to be developed in the near future. In view of the discussion that has only been here in question period today, I think that the number of projects there is least reduced, so it is very important that additional funds go to law enforcement will take place. That's all I'm going to do for this inquiry class today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u21	Mr. President. This is truly news, for the new 400 million people who are going to the police have been given much applause. V.E.G. The minister and the State Department, and indeed all, did not have a problem saying that the 500 million who went to the office because of a proposal made by a Senate committee would not be in the process of paying off the threshold. But in this case it is clearly not expected, so we should be concerned because the pressures of the police have been put on the service of the people. Today, there is an international 16 - day campaign against sexual violence that began yesterday with an international day of violence against women. Violence against women usually takes place within the walls of the house. The locals are concerned that the pressures of the police bring to the fore what the police have negotiated with their rural communities. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to the situation of domestic violence projects, and whether the funds for those projects are cut down because of the pressure on the police. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u22	V.E.G. President. There has been a special campaign for the police during recent losses. The chief of police in the capital area, as well as in the Southnes, has given special attention to this matter. That, of course, involves a certain course, that must be in the way, so I now just answer it in this way. It is one of the police'missions to maintain law and order in the country, including this delicate and difficult case. A member of the body mentions and has made a big difference that the law has emphasized it. I think there must be agreements in any group of people, whether in a position of government or government, that it must be a joy when there is an increase in money to law enforcement. I don't think there's anything to complain about. But they are willing to expand their offices across the country, everywhere because of the work done by the law. I've mentioned a few projects on the force, but this is to promote police operations.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u23	Mr. President. The present government has shown that developing cooperation is not at the top of its priorities, much less. The agreed development programme, which would have been of 0.46% of GDP if followed, is well beyond that; 0.23% of the latest foreign minister strategy which has not been approved, and according to a financial bill at the highest level. The secretary of finance is now down to 0.21%. Governments in Western countries, on the right to left, view evolutionary cooperation as their moral obligation, but it is perfectly clear by the government of Iceland that she does not view it as her moral obligation. The bill here involved in putting down the Institute for Developmental Cooperation and making it a division in the State Department is just the point over the i-i-i-i-i-i in the government policy where development teamwork is pushed into the corner because it does not consider it to be a priority, does not consider it its duty.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u24	A respectable president. In a sense, I agree with everything as easily as possible. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, said above. I'd like to add that we have for these reasons that she declared to be very hard on the matter during the past few days and weeks. Last night, however, we made some offer to the government and to the government to try to reconcile people, and we were having a conversation that promises that these matters and that our invitations would be examined carefully and carefully considered in a committee between discussions. With confidence that we would be standing, that we would be at that job, a considerable number of people decided to take off the rosary to set matters straight, and I hope that they will be successful. But materially we are opposed to this matter, so the Consequences will say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u25	A respectable president. I want to agree with what. Here's what I'm talking about. The lack of ambition shown by Iceland's government and government in developing cooperation is a concern, an overemphasis on the transformation of putting down the modeling Agency for development and bringing it into the Ministry at the same time and it has not been submitted to a developing teamwork program. It is obvious that the proposals for half-achievement per approval of the Generalis of 0.46% of the nation's income are in part a disgrace to all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u26	A respectable president. This issue does not end up with financial contributions for development cooperation, knowing that anyone who wants to know. But I'm sure we'll discuss it. We have two types of donations, one on the other, to the countries called developing countries, and then we place vast sums of money in development aid to the EU. That's what I've been up to, and I hope that's what I do. A position of government will support me and us in that the funds will be given to those who need it more. There's a huge amount of money that doesn't count in percentages during Iceland's development development. However, this is an obvious economy, and I hope it will be useful because it is our job to make the most of the money. There is no doubt about it, and who of us can see that there are great opportunities, and we will follow through after they become new. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u27	A respectable president. This was shown in the case of the highest. Minister yesterday, and what. A senator would have benefited and enjoyed hearing the discussion about this sect, that this was not thought to be a practical procedure. It is a pleasure to see the vice president of the budget for some sort of application, and it remains to indicate that humans are not speaking together in this fine government or in general government. This is part of the big picture. This is a disregard for the whole group of compromises, so it is probably only natural to talk about contributions to developing cooperation at the same time that they are talking about laying down a business agency. Of course, that is to be discussed at the same time. We've been talking about this for a long time, and we've been talking about it for a long time. We haven't heard any evidence since it's a good thing, so we in the VG vote against this case. It's been promised to take the case into consideration by a committee, and I hope it's an open mind. I hope to the highest. Ministers don't interfere with that job, I hope to the highest. A minister does not use his influence to make the committee meeting just a spectacle. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u28	A respectable president. This has become a long discussion over this issue, which is only about to unite a small agency with a small office in the Ministry of State. [[Up front.]] There are ten people who are in an office next door to the Ministry of State, creating a strong and large department, an office that will be involved in evolutionary development, two-sided and multiple-sided. We will get out of this better job, people who can share knowledge with one another and experience. We're going to get a lot more for the money we put in this today. We'll have more human resources, all kinds of supporting services and the other things. Economic economy will not be returned immediately, it is clear, everyone has known, and it has been shown here, but there are other advantages. We have a strong team that works as a team for one goal, and we need to do so much better than we do today in developing cooperation, which we do very well. In terms of financial contributions, we have better time to review that matter later.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u29	A respectable president. This step is being taken in developing cooperation at a time when there is a greater need for a more powerful and professional development than ever. We have an institution with a good reputation and a drawer in the Ministry, there is no saving of the operation, no professional evidence for the decision, and no visible benefits. It has been quite tragic to observe this matter; it is done with such a prejudgence that the treatment itself has been greatly missed during the council, and it has, of course, been a disgrace. It's a disgrace to the council itself, it's a disrespect for the independence of institutions and professional work within the administration and a great deterioration in the category of litigation itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u30	Mr. President. It is impossible to put this matter in the context of the sad performance of the government of this class, which is an infinitely sad and humiliating Iceland, that we, in the third year in a series of times, are improving national interests in the same process, with 0.21% of GDP for development. I'm not surprised to learn that this is the position of the current president of the steps taken by the moveout of the advance agency. paritaprevir Hauksdóttir, the Hawkdotttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u31	...for me...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u32	V.E.G. In contrast, a minister of finance could look to his Brother in Britain, Cameron, who is now more economically difficult than in Iceland. There, Britain's goals meet 0.7% of GDP for development support. It would be a good example, never a habit, for the highest. The secretary of finance to follow in this case of British conservatives. The striking off of the trade department in this field is, of course, symbolic, that's the point over the i-do in this low ríkisstjórn, Sigmundur the Davíð of David Gunuga og Bjarni son of Benedict, which this is, of course, is that Iceland, one of the richest countries in the world, should be doing this sort of thing. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u33	Mr. President. You are not laughing at this moment when this matter is being handled over in the 2nd. V.E.G. Ministers talk about a small institution and a small office inside the Ministry, that it will be all so small and adorable in the future, but I think the ambition of the Minister and the government for this category is very small. That's embarrassing us. We are a small nation, but in this category we can do so much better, and by showing the good work that has been done in Iceland's Development Institute for many years of disregard for putting the Agency and standing up in the Ministry something that no one knows what will bring to shame, a nation that is getting out of great economic problems and has a level for doing much better.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u34	A respectable president. It is a real joy to see that this issue is being discussed in the middle of a discussion because new points are still being introduced in the discussion despite everything. On the other hand, this issue gets a wrong priorities, it's a bad thing, and the Piratars vote against it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u35	A respectable president. There are strange battles in which this government thing decides. This is a very bad case. There is no proper reason for this arrangement, except in the case of high court. Minister would like to keep this group under control in the Ministry, not want professional people to handle this, not tolerate the criticism of those who are involved in these machines and have knowledge. Of course, that is extremely bad. It is very painful that this group of languages, which is so important that it is settled in this way. This has been repeated in the discussion of the last few days to try to find a common solution, a delay in making a validation, waiting for the review, etc. so that the matter can be resolved with a mutual solution. Then some government officials come up and claim that this will catch up with some practicality that has been denied the price. The only thing that has been manipulated in this discussion is the truth. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u36	V.E.G. President. The integration of the European Development Agency with an office at the State Department increases the efficiency of the project and improves and improved professional knowledge. The last government raised one year's development aid in funding to extend its life by means of money that did not exist and is still coming and exasperating. That's perfect hypocrisy, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u37	Mr. President. The situation in international affairs is sad, so the importance of developing cooperation will not be diminished soon. So I feel very sad that one of the world's richest nations is about to make changes in its societal structure, which, like these have been reasoned in the last days, is likely to be lost and transparent. I can't say anything but that I think the case is very bad and, of course, will vote against it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u38	Mr. President. I must agree with the final speaker on the need that is growing even more so than the word. It is important for him to have a unique professional self - image as a powerful modern - day profession. It has proved true. It is important that we take note of Kingdom Accounting that warns about this arrangement. It has referred to the problems of the Ministry as an example of the peacekeeping and school of the United Nations. The evaluations and monitoring that have been highly acceptable and that have not been demonstrated in a comparable way. Professor Jónína Einarsdóttir has warned of this as well as many others. The Red Cross has made detailed comments to the bill the Minister prefers not to listen, that this is not the best solution, and it decided six or seven ministers before the one sitting. Even his fellow members did not consider this to be the best solution. A financial committee has said that it is important for institutions to set down measurable goals to measure the results and quality of the work. [[The president calls.]] It certainly has been done by the Development Organization - but not by the State Department.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u39	A respectable president. As noted, both in the highest range. Secretary of state and what. The vice-president of the budget is here for management, for the promotion of work and the better use of human resources. This is the same argument that we were aware of in the last government during the last term, which she used to use to the unity that they sometimes went through. I don't remember the act being someone else like now. It is not possible to discuss this matter without merely referring to the twin - skind man who is involved in the language. Congress officials of the government, if considered to be the last elected period. The life of the government during the last term was hanging on a thread as a result of a developing cohesion agency. [[Up front.]] Hv. paritaprevir Össur's son's Skarphéðinsson well describes his book how he staked the lives of the government at its highest level. current ministers, Steingrímur J. Sigfússon and Sigurðardóttir Sigurdarddóttir, and then secretary of finance, Oddný Harðardóttir, planned to cut down much into the development community. In his book he went on to describe how he, as he put it, sat like a boy, smiled, and did not say a word; he had his way through. [[The president calls.]] It was now all the emphasis on this party of the last government, a dignified president. Then we bring that twin in here in these cases. It's a pain in the ass. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u40	A respectable president. I often find it interesting, even funny, to watch over what damp people catch when they try to back up a bad language. To bring down the Development Agency, a professional development agency in Iceland, an institution with a high score in all the assessments, now in the debate on the part of the management team, to promote the force of evolution. Can we expect to see more of this? Will the Grouping Room be laid down and added to the Ministry as a department in the Ministry to promote the activism in these matters? Will a Merition Institute be put down and entered the Department of Professional Roads as a department there to promote the arterial force? Will an equal rights firm be put down to enter some department of the Ministry of Health in order to promote the activism of equality? I don't feel like there's a rock standing over a rock in this case. [[The president calls.]] Obviously, the development community, the professional agency for the seminary, should be promoted if it was intended to increase the intensity of the strokes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u41	Mr. President. The figures of the last government in 2012●2013 were how fast we could increase development support, how fast we were able to increase the percentage of GDP. It was a perfect agreement, and the council agreeed that there could be no more misappreciative than those coming out of the chairman of the fifth platoon, why. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson. We're gonna go for a second. paritaprevir Sourstein Sæmundsson I'd like to say that bearing it on the table in this discussion would involve a vote on the last government to raise support to development as soon as it began to subsidize the government's terms is now cheap, or rather cheap. A senator who has a vote for poor people in Africa in Iceland? I don't think that's what I'm talking about. The members of the Þörstein Sæmundsson of Sæmund, and Jón Gunnarsson's son, still go down with a discussion about this series, but their own government performance is well said. Such delicate topics are not appropriate.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u42	Mr. President. I'm here to say that what I'm doing is what I'm doing. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson said that I was in charge during my last term is not true. The debate and the approval of a synonym was published by the United Nations, which is 0.7% of GDP. To say otherwise is not true and cannot be left unspoken in this air.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u43	V.E.G. President. The author and sponsor of this bill, the highest. The minister of the State of Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson discussed this program on a small institution that was being transferred into a small office in a small department. I don't know why on earth I asked for the word from then on, and this came to mind: With little scales in a small town is a small house. In secret Inside a Low Wall is a small mouse. About small rooms going down slow and a small couple, 'Cause little Gunna's short and little Jón. I've left members of Congress changing the last two lines because it's very easy.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u44	Mr. President. The need to keep it up in the discussion is that there has been a huge increase in land production year after year, which has meant that even though we haven't increased the percentage of national productions for development support as fast as we hoped we could, we have put hundreds of millions more in the lawsuit, now with the last special decision of the government, in which we decided to respond to the refugee problem. We're putting about 500 million. K. between discussions in matters that go to the international institutions that take care of things that are developing in sensitive areas. In count of dollars, we are making large contributions, including due to growth in land production and, on top of the government's specific decisions. One percent of the land's production would be 20 billion in this suit. [[The president calls.]] If we are going to set some of these goals, as I would like to feel that there is just no issue and that we are not already there, then people have to make some realistic plan on how we should get into position to make room for such donations. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u45	A respectable president. Something's going to get in the chest at any point. Congress members at the government stand when explaining the history of the problem. paritaprevir Again and again they try to carry Skarphéðinsson's fables. They do not know what is said there, telling it all a lie. I think it's time to go. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson makes it clear whether he was doing a lot of history in his own publication. I'm gonna believe this, and that's how it was only during last term in 2012 that the government's life hung on a thread for handling a budget bill to 3rd. ... andwhat. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, who here with great superiority calls a fool from the hall, played part in this job. [[The president calls.]] He, along with Saint Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, then prime minister, was going to reduce the donations significantly, og Össur Skarphéðinn's son placed the chair before the door and staked the life of the government to the pledge. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] These are just facts.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u46	Mr. President. Because people like to think back on the past and talk about being unrealistically planned, now that the plan I referred to earlier was approved. of the highest. current finance minister, Bjarni Benediktsson, Supreme Minister. current intellectual and cultural minister of Illugi Gunnarsson, why. The procurator of the Independence Party, Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir, and, in fact, of all members of the council at that time, except one, because the people were prepared to set the standards for this class because of the situation. The members of the council felt that this was their duty, even though the priorities for this group of litigators were bad. That's what I think we should be discussing today, how we have priorities, and if it is really not possible to give priority to this class of issues that center on our obligation as an economic state to countries that join themselves in the 20 poorest countries and what our obligation is to them. [[The president calls.]] I'm going to commend you. Councilmen present at current administration, now at the highest level. Councilmen and members of the administrations, for how they voted at that time, because they showed them that they were ready to take over a conflict in national affairs because of the speciality of this sect. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u47	President. Here we are, on the old-fashioned lands, and I want to thank you. Gunnarsson It's been so long since Gunnar's explanation of a book. paritaprevir Acoustics, Skarphéðinsson's son. But the main point here is that we are trying to create some kind of pretentious way of landing this matter so that it escapes the evil soil it has been in, that is, what really matters. I hope that the work on the Foreign Affairs will be such that people can find a common surface on this very difficult case. I would like to think that I was very proud of my own people when it was decided that I would try to get on with the nations around us on the standards we were going to put into development cooperation. Let's try to stay in a more disciplined and professional discussion at the Senate Hall today, please.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u48	A respectable president. I think the discussion that's creating here and the atmosphere in the hall and in the benches is totally unveilable. To count it a reason to tell some five-dollar jokes and throw the fun of having some stupid, Nazi left men take an interest in developing cooperation - I don't have a word for the stunning here in this room and what's said in this chair. People are filming books and trying to bring on those who are fighting here that we are a proud nation of nations and provide powerful support for development. Is this all right with you, dear senator? Do you want to look at yourself and realize that we are among the 20 richest nations in the world, and we are to help the 20 poorest nations in the world as best we can? We're not supposed to throw the fun at it here in the audience or try to make it look like some fool of those who fight for it, like men do here repeatedly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u49	A respectable president. I wasn't in the government during the last term. Also, during the last term, I did not sit in a position of government, and I have an argument about who said them and what was wrong at one time was one of the saddest arguments I've ever heard about doing bad things or making wrong decisions. Here we are discussing a very serious matter, suggest that the world be successful, to the world's most influential societies in the world, and I find it beneath us to take the discussion to this level. It's a matter of respect for the topic, respect for the work and self - esteem of the Generals, and I don't like the discussion here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u50	A respectable president. I hadn't planned to talk about this vote, but the conduct of the board here is in such a way that I like every bit of fire. Here it is informed by the vice president of the budget that he sees an opportunity to save in this category and that this is why basic changes are being made contrary to what has been said before. Here, people with butter - fold methods try to distract from the fact that this administrative part, the Ministers of the Ministers, who adopted a development team plan during his last term, has broken a promise he has made to the poorest nations in the world, although leaders in other Western countries have put their priorities in support of development aid. This is the fact of the matter, the lack of interest in developing cooperation, and the seemingly determined violation of the administrative element to minimize its impact and reduce its donations. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u51	A respectable president. In this matter, the question is whether or not to enter the Ministry of Development. That's what it's all about. As for the financial contributions to development, I agree with the highest degree. The secretary of finance because whatever anyone says in this hall is the centenarian who is working in developing cooperation in these budgets and this year and before 2016 is twice as high as ever. As to this, we can likely agree, though, that the centenarian is much higher than ever before, even though we will be able to discern whether a development agency should be in the Ministry or an independent agency. Let us stop attacking one another for something someone has said or done. Let us at times, and in this matter too, try to discern the difference. [[Up front.]] More than ever before, more crowns are going to be on development teamwork as we understand where the Development Agency is supposed to be. [[The president calls.]] That's what it's all about, and it's the law of the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u52	A respectable president. What will it mean if we can unite organizations? What does that mean? Given its well-being done, we're going to make an even better use of funds. And who will benefit most from it? Those who will enjoy the money, in this case the poorest people in the world, who, fortunately, are decreasing. If people really are interested in it, and I'm not going to do anything else to help the poor, we must also direct the funds that we include in developing assistance to the EU to those who have least. I look forward to receiving the support from what happened. it is to those who are anti-continents. We were once the poorest people in Western Europe, and we would never have made it to where we are now except because we had access to other markets by vacations. [[The president calls.]] What this government has done, including... that to take away tolls is to help those who are poor.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u53	President. I think the debate here in the conference hall reflects the consequences of putting matters in the highest order. A minister makes such a delicate case that he does. In the past, we have repeatedly talked about how sensitive the group is and how valuable and important it is in this regard to trying to achieve a non - interpolitic solidarity in the matter. Other foreign ministers have so far. This has been the case. It is part of our self - respect and our image of Icelanders. Therefore, we need to be careful about him. Therefore, the minister of foreign affairs is to leave the State Department alone at the next meetings. I trust that he will, and that members of the council will help us to see that it is absolutely clear that he does not promote some kind of cross-resistance towards the work of the committee and the work of the Committee will lead to the solidarity that the jury deserves. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So I'd like to say, despite all the figures on the increase rate rate, it's not consistent with an approved development team.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u54	A respectable president. The one we had to listen to from mouth to mouth. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son makes a show of disrespect for this class. This disrespect is also reflected in the trial as it has been in the council, the absence of the minister, and other members of the council from the discussion, the haste, and the failure to rip the matter out of the committee, in other words, in indifference to the sect, and in the absolute inadequacy of the matter. This will be compared to anything but abuse of power. That's a worry.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u55	A respectable president. The compromise in these votes is quite remarkable. It is spoken as if me and the Icelanders are suggesting that we do not pay more for development. Why not come to the subject that this bill is about? [[Up front.]] It's about the transfer of one institution to the Ministry. That's all there is to it, a respectable president. Also, a lot of emotional pornography is being treated and it is said that we are putting down evolutionary cooperation. I've just never heard anything like this, but that's how you keep talking back and forth. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson cannot answer for himself in this sermon because he has had his two votes for an explanation, but he was told that he had been wronged. Then it's the assessment of the government, at least The union and the left greener, that it's a little funky. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson was enlightened in his book. [[The president calls.]] When you read the book on how the purchase took place during the island during the last term, it is very sensitive to the council. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u56	A respectable president. I am glad that a material discussion seems to have taken place on the side of the administrative point, but it seems to take place in an explanation. In fact, it began in a vote on the extension of a council meeting last but not on this particular subject. I find it important to make sure that the debate taking place on Iceland's development contributions is important. It is important to our priorities and to the way the Icelanders intend to handle this issue. Therefore, it is worth discussing in relation to this matter, as in fact, why. Members of the administrative body have helped to comment. It would be wish for that discussion to be done more about the matter itself. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u57	A respectable president. Here we will discuss how we will establish the European Commission and the Development Agency. How did that come about? Yes, in the report of an experienced professional in the seminary, a minister was told that this was the wisest way. We're going to vote for it. Then, in the context of the development community and in the fact that we have not put enough money into it, we are going back and forth. The money doesn't come from percentages. They're coming out of centenarians. The crowns have made it fast. All of us want to do as good as possible and even better than we have so far. Thus, the government, among other things, has invested funds through its refugee proposals in international development cooperation. The government also has suggestions on climate issues that are involved in supporting developing countries. The will of the government and of the government cannot be seen more clearly. We want to do so much better than we've ever done. [[The president calls.]] Here, however, we are explaining our vote on whether this practice should be carried out or not by the way we direct the development team. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u58	A respectable president. The words of the administrative body in these comments clearly show how little he has studied this matter. They're talking about financial management, but it's not part of the bill. It's about moving a small agency to a small department. Ten people's office is not a very small set of Icelandic standards, so I don't quite understand the point. For a little country, that's just fine. Then there is also the question of what it is about. It's supposed to put under one hat two types of evolutionary teamwork, and then it's just a question of whether we want to do it. It's a disgrace how the majority have spoken in this case. Materially, what has been said during the discussions here has been wronged, and it is entirely inappropriate. Minister has treated the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u59	Mr. President. It would have been wish for the administrative body to have participated in this discussion and to communicate with us who have been discussing these matters, but now they did not use their time in a discussion of the votes to present such an insignificant but subversive talk. This case is full of shit, so how can we Icelanders be crawling about something like that? The þingmaður of Jón Gunnarsson og Vigdís Hauksdóttir, bring the matter down to such a low level that it has no place in Aldus sales. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] It is heartbreaking, and all of us are embarrassed to offer such discussions on such occasions. Taking some book into the discussion again, I'm not going to mention it, isn't funny, huh? þm. Jón Gunnarsson. [[Up front.]] I think the government ethic should have a course for some members. [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u60	President. I agree that I find it very boring that when we in the smaller part called after a conversation with members of the greater part and the highest. Secretary of state. We asked a very clear question, but they were not answered. Then they choose the senators now who see their dignity in coming to the voter's pay to answer in a text style, with a kind of text, instead of having a detailed and perfunctory discussion here. This is a fundamental problem of the council. This is how we speak to the public, people who don't know how to talk, who don't want to talk, and we continue in some sort of infinite argument about nothing. [[For example, consider: Who's fighting?]] I'd like to point out what's going on. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir is very prone to create war here with the wind. þm. Jón Gunnar's son and refer to literature that has no greater value than a written autobiography. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u61	Why?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u62	A respectable president. For decades, the political parties in Iceland and the International Parliament have offered good fortunes to meet up with the worthy task of developing Iceland's cooperation with poor countries. This has changed by the highest. The minister of foreign affairs, knowingly, has presented a matter of details in itself, an organization, in opposition to a number of political parties at the General Assembly and a number of council members, completely refusing to meet any other viewpoints in this simple organizational matter. The result of creating the rift is the debate that has taken place here in this morning, which is certainly neither respect nor honor for nor for the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u63	A respectable president. This has always been incomprehensible to me. Last night there was an agreement that this case should go to the State Committee a second time. I intend to pay for it with my vote, but the matter is as incomprehensible to me as it used to be to me. It seems to be part of an organization. This bill has not been used by the candidates in conversation outside of a single genius projector since the day. paritaprevir So, in response to the minister of foreign affairs, Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson stone, so if you're surprised to find that this is the way I'm supposed to keep it this time. I'm going to pay for that case to get to a committee a second time. A respectable president. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u64	A respectable president. I recommend to the Committee to conduct a bill on public financial legislation from the greater part of the legal committee. In the greater part, we suggest that the bill be approved. My co-mates on this committee party are beside me. paritaprevir Gudle Viðr Þórðarson, why. paritaprevir Oddný G. Harðardóttir, on notice. paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason, what? paritaprevir St Brynhildur's Pétursdóttur's hip, huh? paritaprevir Fjóla Hrund Björnsdóttir, huh? paritaprevir It's Valgerður's Gunnarsdóttir's choice. paritaprevir Haraldur Benediktsson. Hv. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir sat by the case and did not sign this opinion. Even so, it is safe to say that on the main theme, a member of that body agrees with the majority of the committee's views, although she did not see fit to be with us on the committee. In the beginning, I would like to thank the entire budget for a great cooperation because this bill has been in the budget since the last election. The first council gave us the bill for discussion, but it didn't leave the budget board, and last week the bill became fairly complete and was taken out of the budget, of course, in more conflict than it is today, but then moved by the Supreme Court. Secretary of finance again at this council and with these results. A respectable president. The work on a budget has been very good, and I am happy with the development of professional and material discussions about the bill. As to the purpose and prehistory of this bill, it is therefore intended, if it becomes legal, to accept the law of No. 88/1997, of the state's income, who are becoming 20 years old and therefore have good reason to revise it. At the time, the 1997 narrative law was a landmark law that made it possible for Iceland to be included in the OECD Member States, especially with regard to accounting and comparison of budgets and accounts. In 2008, after the crisis of the bank, a number of countries have revised legal bases and practices in the extracurricular and financial sectors in particular. Thus, Iceland no longer has a special status in this time, and it is only a small matter of government funding and government policy. In preparation for the bill, the Ministry of Economics was to meet with representatives of the International Cash Fund, and to search for prisoners in many places, as it was to discuss one of the most important bill adopted by the Ministry. The bill has been in preparation since November 2011, which was then in the time of the last government, and I suggest that two governments have arrived at this bill's work, resulting in a vastness of work at which a special control team was appointed. The task force appointed working groups and a total of dozens of employees, government reexamination, government finance and Iceland's Hauspah, as well as a number of advisers, have made up the bill. The bill's votes are intended not only to create a framework for the efficient application of government economic policies but also to coordinate it with the financial policy of the Bank of Iceland. Official financial policy should be made in the long term, and decisions on money matters should be made according to the criteria set out in the long-term government programme. Compatibility of financial policy and money policy is important for successful economic management and stability. Public financial goals are set up in a longer term financial policy that should contribute to the sustainable development of public finance and economic stability. On the basis of the bill, the management team and the financial and financial department based on the assessment of the International Cash Fund based on the development of public funds in Iceland. The fund's staff have followed the report by visiting Iceland, and three times the financial committee has been contacted by commissions of the fund. The bill is the most extensive bill that has been referred to in the legal committees for years. Its terms are intended to include the total financial resources of the public, i.e. both state and community, and it's new. It contains provisions for a wide range of planning and reporting, designed to promote long - term thinking and financial responsibilities as well as to improve the annual budget. The regulations are also designed to strengthen the budget, but in comparison with other OECD countries, the implementation has been in a lascivious across the region. Then you will find a provision in the bill on the introduction of international accounting standards. Thus, the bill considers all aspects of public funds. Last winter the committee visited the Swedish Fundament Committee, the Swedish General Review and the Sweden financial Council. This was so that the committee would have an international comparison between its work and the purpose of the visit was to get the best information about Sweden's experience and legislation in terms of financial matters. After 25 years of bank crisis in Sweden, the state's budget was taken into account in that country and in its legislation and procedure in the Parliament, with the result that the crisis in 2008 did not result in as much a compromise on financial matters as in general in Europe or within the Member States of the European Economic and Development Organization, OECD. In preparation for the Commission's review, the Commission has developed a wide range of data and information from the International Cash Fund, OECD, the financial and economic Ministry, Britain's financial council, and other sources. The bill was first submitted, as I said, in this picture at 143th, and the committee also covered the bill in detail at the 144th Council, as I went over earlier, and now this bill is about to become a law before the year, and I am delighted to do so. During this assembly, the committee has discussed the matter at seven meetings and has brought in a number of guests, as it should be, and this is the result, a respectable president. If we do a little more closely on the bill, the section referred to is divided in light of the extent of the issue, according to the section of the bill. Chapter I discusses goals, fields and definitions, in II. a section on government financial policies, in the III. The budgets of the bill for financial purposes, IV. A chapter on the construction of budgets is discussed, and finally a chapter on accounting and reporting is a special chapter. Finally, there is a conclusion or final outcome. I'm going to go over the chapters now and encourage people to study the contents of the bill, which is the 148th case. 148, take into account the changes made by the greater part and can be found on a piece of paper. 482 in agreement. This is where the 13 teams make some adjustment from the majority of them. Let's just go over Section I, aims, values range and comment. Under current laws on government income, the aims of the law are not covered, but it is corrected in this bill. It is new that the bill includes the entire public body, i.e. Not only to the State and the government but also to the financial institutions of the countryside. For example, the bill was made to include the Norwegian legislature on public financial matters, especially in Sweden. Among other things, the Swedish laws on state funds require responsibilities to offer proposals for the balance of the financial budget in the spring programme as well as the exchange of expenses to a 27 - case field. This shall be discussed in the strategy on the interaction between the EU's financial and economic objectives, the development of income, and the paying of the state and the management of rural society, and the long-term improvement in government finances. Many of these are included in the public financial bill. Il. a section of the bill contains official financial perspectives and policies. The main newcomers in this section face economic policies, financial programs, financial regulations, and the establishment of a special financial body. These documents and baseline financial policies and financial programmes are discussed in detail. The committee has worked hard on some of the articles in this chapter, and most of the questions there may be raised because there is a law code on future policy barriers in public. The rest of the section suggests we're up to 5. The bill, on financial programmes, will be added the following: The aims should also be set for the increase in total total pay and the objective for the proportion of total debt, including pensional commitments, of GDP. The purpose of this is to give particular attention to the need to regulate government expenses regardless of income management plans. In 2008 the years before the collapse of the bank proved that even though the removal of the government was acceptable, the cost between years and years was greatly higher than in the countries that we prefer to compare with. It is also necessary to consider more closely the development of pension commitment than has been done so far. Today, for example, they are not looked upon at at at the expense of collective agreements, although recent government contracts may require an increase in the debt of pensions by hundreds of billions of dollars. This adjustment adds to the need for the public to set the goal of state spending and pension commitment without legalizing it, except as part of a financial resolution. Then we've got 6. The bill discussed baseline financial policies and financial programmes. Seven. The bill is about the conditions. It presents so - called financial guidelines that include a debt limit, the survival of the government, and a process of adaptation, i.e. how fast to pay off the debt of the state. The committee investigated whether a head of the committee was in need of a comprehensive financial rule, as shown in Article 7. The bill. Among the new jobs was the International Cash Fund, which has specifically investigated the use of national regulations. According to the 81 - nation budget, 76 of them have financial regulations of some kind. There are various national rules, such as the Maastricht conditions in the EU, or established rules in individual countries. Iceland is one of only five countries where there are no financial rules. It is most common to set financial guidelines on debt and requirements for a certain outcome, which are in line with what is suggested in the bill. The major conclusion is that there is good reason to validate the rules presented in Article 7. The bill. The majority also evaluated the addition of a so - called budget policy that harmonizes with the direction of the Association of Professionals, and I spoke extensively to the committee. This means putting a roof on the government budget growth so that it cannot increase more than the cost of Iceland's Pentateuch Bank, plus long-term average interest. Experience shows that in the economic crisis, recovery is often difficult. On the contrary, such a fluctuating economy, such as the Icelandic one, can be shocking when it comes to tying it in this way. Since the financial rule of living is not limited to the economic fluctuation corrected economy, it is reasonable to conclude that the aims of paying interest will be implemented in the annual financial programme instead of being legal. There was an intervening gap. I spoke very highly for the spending rule while other members of the committee did not, so I am pleased with the result. A review of the National Review of the bill points out that the calculation of the debt ratio has been balanced and does not require a proposal for a change of 7. The bill. The majority of this calls attention to the fact that the target is now expected to reach a debt ratio below 30% of GDP, which during the last Parliament was of a 45% debt ratio. There's a change between the councils, and we think it's a great improvement. This change reflects predictions of continued economic growth, indicating that it is safe to change the debt rule so that it can lead to a higher level of government maintenance than it is currently. It is desirable that the balance of debt will be revised and determined once the debt of the state's debt has been restored beyond certain limits from the current level. At level 9. The bill, the prospect and development of long - term development, contributes to a change that includes the development of a minister when it assesses long - term prospects, as well as an assessment of the likely effects of recovery, economic status, and the commitment of public bodies on developments in the country, especially on the status of the scattered settlements. At 1 0... The bill, on the review of financial policy, is proposed to change in order to allow for a review of financial policy at least five years, and in certain cases it is permitted to depart for another three years from conditions in Article 7. Instead of two years of age on the bill. With the change, we will have more time to respond if basic financial policies fail that we hope not to do so, that we need to apply this article in the future, which points to the circumstances as it did in the collapse of the bank. That's where we'll beat the abductor to extend the warrant for three years instead of two. In 1 1. The bill discusses the communications and consultations of the state and rural society and has been received by the Commission by the European Union of Iceland, which describes concern for the implementation of financial regulations for the public as a whole. There are already financial rules for rural society under rural law, No. 138/2011, and they have been well - tested, while there is an average of greater financial value in rural society now than a few years ago, although the current year is still worse. The financial rules of the rural society are turning towards expenses and debt in proportion to their income and taking into account both their A-and B-parts. The majority do not suggest a reason to suggest a change in the bill of communication between state and rural society, but it points out that the main adjustment to the aims of financial and financial policies will rest on the budget, even if the rural communities have to contribute to a positive overall balance, an acceptable debt level, and after events decrease in debt. Under the conditions where rural society meets the fiscal rules of government law, the state's budget is completely adjusted. 13th. The bill is discussed on financial advice, and the Committee has been looking for prisoners in many places to investigate fully the activities and activities of the OECD countries. Since the 2008 collapse of the bank, financial advisers have grown dramatically, but up to that time, financial advises have now taken place in three or four countries, which have now reached at least 20. In addition, financial advice can be found at a level of local government. III. This section is about budgets. It's about budgets. In the terms of the bill, a fundamental change in the production of a budget bill is found. Based on the fact that the General Assembly is providing funds for litigation and litigation, as well as a contribution to a general reserve. The budget is not expected to appear in a bill for financial management, but in a follow-up only. Money sources will be broken down by language fields and litigation classes. Today, there are a special subject on the pay side of the budget to be found in a divided section of budget bill 2 and some 900. This change is aimed at paying interest to 34 sectors, which are again divided into 105 lawsuits. The benefits of this change are that the Council deals with larger issues and exchanges in large numbers and long - term policies rather than with financing on individual subjects, which often weigh very little in total government expenses. At the same time, this involves greater responsibility for individual advisers who are responsible for the exchange of funds in fundacies to individual institutions. The chapter contains far more detailed regulations on the content of a financial bill than in the current law, as well as several more novelties, such as the gender of the budget. A greater proportion of these suggests a number of adjustments in the section, but they believe that the main objective of the reduction in budgets, the increased responsibilities of a minister, and the financial resources of a reserve is to limit the budget that is most beneficial to all. It's up to the 14th. g., about the bill for the budget, will be added the following paragraph: Within four weeks of the contributions of the bill for financial gain, the Agency shall give a review of the impact of the bill on urban development. This includes considering the policy of each minister according to Article 20. The bill, for the topic fields and classes to which he is responsible, conforms to the national strategy and application programmes established by the Parliamentary Reunion Directive for a decision-making strategy. The majority also suggest that a paragraph be added 16. g., the format of a bill for funding, as it shows that the numeration of the bill should be available in a computer format and in an open media, and that data is available to all the public for computer development. In addition, it is intended that each year's budget will, for example, be easily controlled with the budgets of the previous year and with the financial bills, but also that financial data will be more efficient for post-production, such as more efficient analysis and implementation. It must be said that, a respectable president, it was met with Porta's proposal to install the transparency principle that the public could work with the figures that appear in each year's budgets. The Commission agreed to take into account the proposal and raise this provision by inserting it into Article 16. The bill. It's a joy, so it's my sincere hope that the Piratars will come to pay their vote to meet this, of course, their claim. They suggest the 19th floor. the bill, the bill of budget-based copy of the bill, will be added to the new number which will be as follows: The management of budgets based on calculus models or specific calculus and the proposed changes to the models or rules. Congress officials have often criticized that it is difficult to figure out how much funds go into these models, such as high school, college, and other factors, so the committees specifically address them. In accordance with the reviews and proposals of the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, it is suggested that the wording of Article 20. The bill, in terms of environmental policies, will be changed so that it will be discussed on the subject of shopping. The change is in good harmony with the importance of selling the State in order to achieve a reduction in shopping costs and practicality. This is a very important article in view of recent years' discussion of the Kingdom's export. More than that, it is noted that the change in budget production can lead to a review of the arrangements and votes for budget management and even a review of the General Assembly laws. It's not excluded. In accordance with financial programmes, the spring is fixed to key aspects of a coming budget bill to be submitted. After approval of this bill, there will be two budget talks at the council, one in the spring and the other in the fall. This spring is laid out from all counsellors, where they stress how much money should go to every lawsuit and then into the cause, allowing members of the council to come a long way earlier to financial debate than the current law. I think this is a great improvement, because it will be reimbursed to the secretary of finance, and it will be shown in the form of a budget bill in the fall. It is up to the members of Parliament's wishes that all members of the Parliament come to the budget, not just ministers of the government, who are once and a financial committee, so this is a great improvement. After this financial program is adopted in the spring, as I told you earlier, it will return and return to the council. IV. a chapter is being reviewed, and now I have to work hard just because time is passing quickly. Chapter V discusses accounts and reports that are unnecessary. All I have to say is that a financial committee requested the financial and economic cost of this bill. In my opinion, the chairman of a financial committee is too much of the prices sent, but it could not be better assessed at the cost of the promotion of this bill. We have stressed that this will be countering the estimated permanent cost of 372/480 million. In between, there is a large interval, but the temporary cost at the induction is estimated to be 438 and 616 million. This is an enormous amount of money, a billion, but it is also our wish and demand that this committee hold that there is an advantage in the system. This is essential in my opinion that, among other things, it is justified in ensuing these laws, although all of us agree that there must be an even greater improvement in the framework of public finances to achieve the discipline in a state of state that we all call posts, to stop debt collections, and to keep the government within the budget. As previously noted, the introduction of the bill takes two to three years. Adjusting the demand for public financial policies and policy-making policies and changing accounts may best test the system. We have to find out. Because this bill is on its way, several people have taken a reexamination, so the work may have gone further than if the bill had become a law in us. What a joy that is! The primary objective of this bill is to ensure the P.R. by trusting the basis for policy-making in public finance. We need a change of viewpoint in all areas, and this is a key to the induction of new tasks. In the absence of this change of viewpoint, the number of decisions on increased and more complex information sources listed in the bill may only result in more business costs but fail to meet the anticipated benefits. That's what we want to avoid in the longest law, a respectable president. So that's why the more part is suggesting that this bill be approved. My importers have already read up. Finally, a respectable president, I'd like to say that I've been delighted to lead this work into a budget all this terms, and now this bill has been widely agreed on in the past two governments. I declare, a respected president, that this is a matter of milestones, especially for the Allied Council of Iceland and as well as the public financial system. With these words I shall finish my speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u65	Madam President. At the end of his speech, there was a reason. A senator, the chairman of a financial committee, agreed that on the other hand, there would be a number of costs for operating or performing the work on the new foundation laid and the cost of the induction. It was natural for a long time before us to talk here both last year and fall. When the matter was discussed, I made it clear that it would be obvious to do a great deal of effort to further each member of the Ministry to control his role in these laws. These costs are not surprising to me, nor are they hard to determine an accurate dollar in it and some price gap there. I'm not afraid of those numbers. On the contrary, if we fully implement this system for the cost of the two, three - year - long period of less than 1 billion, it is well escaped. and then there are figures of this magnitude that can be expected on the extra scale of the budget and the work of recruitment, which is much more responsible in these areas. What I wonder is the requirement. The chairman of the budget board, and it also sounds like vice president, that the Ministry is going to have to adjust to this other cost in its own business. I think it's a strange approach, and I predict that it doesn't work out as if I don't think the benefit of the recruitment is from the special cuts that the same people used to pay for a year ago. I think it's much rather an investment. If we have faith in what I do, this will be a major improvement in the budget, the implementation of the budget, and the management of state funds, we should view this as an investment in better progress and a more reliable statehood into the future. As a result, I consider this presentation to be very peculiar, too. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u66	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon for this answer. Of course, the cost is great, as I went over, and it's talking about the need to strengthen the resources of this amount, but it's also intended to set up a special financial body in these numbers. For example, there is a need to revise the government's property and improve internal refinements. In these numbers, there are also changes and updates on the government information systems and the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, so it is certainly recognized that we are investing in the future by supporting these institutions in this respect. It is wrong, however, for the senator to see that we, the vice president of the budget committee, have asked for practical management in the council cases to the level at which this cost. We are simply warning that the incorporation of this bill will lead to excessive expansion of the system. It is not unusual for us to say that this does not come in such a way into the Ministry and the institutions that the bill affects that one new song is just added to the entire existing system, as has so often happened when something is changed into the government or the council. We simply make the modest demands that the Ministry will be reviewed with the guide to get the best of them and to move to the employees who are now in those jobs and as well as to recruit some new members to work so that they will be 100% and not just newborns.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u67	Madam President. Of course, no one wants to bludgeon especially for these reasons. I think we should be realistic and look at reality as it is, as it has appeared to me in the past few years. I think I'm well aware of what this situation was like, at least in a four, five - year period. At that time, many of the Ministry's Departments were far too weak in this regard as regards financial management, preparation for their budgets, etc. In my opinion, the Ministry of finance has had to work too much of the work that should be done in the facades, even writing a text for a report by means of a financial bill for a special Ministry Department. It is, first of all, in my opinion, an urgent task to promote the Ministry of Justice in this field. Their unity and growth and reduction should be a secondary reason. In the past, little advisers may have had half or one status value, and even people had to make it up to other challenges in the scheme to be some of their financial experts. I don't regret that there are some funds and there will be a permanent addition to strengthening the Ministry of these matters, the main objective of a more secure state culture, more discipline and integrated economic management, including integration of the government through cooperation of state and community. It already has a great deal of work to do with the terms of financial regulations in its time, 2011. True, I miss the economic agreement to which the Commission's proposal to follow this committee was never made, but let's hope that, following this, it will make a solid start and then on the national benefit of being able to become so many times, with a more solid economy and a better allowance for the public finances as a whole, that some additional cost is a good investment. [[The president calls.]] I repeat, I feel that it should be viewed primarily as an investment.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u68	A respectable president. I can mostly say what you're saying. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon. Among other things, I was in the economic group, to see if there was not a lot of money in the public money to have financial agencies in each Ministry. 320 you. with some special financial agency of the state, it would be most reasonable if the Ministry had a financier who would organize key lines and perhaps have access to the government's financial agency. I think there's a lot of money to be saved by uniting basic government services, phone responses, and computer development, because when the frame is set until spring, all numbers are available. It doesn't have to be in every department, just to be said here, a respectable president. To create a parapolitic reconciliation on the subject, this led to a conclusion. In effect, this is a financial constitution of public interest, and it must be said of all classes in the council in my opinion, all political parties offering to the Council, for there are enormous interests at stakes in the affairs of the country, the wealth of state, and the survival of the homes of the country, and the rest of the provision of human life here. I agree with the senator's statement that now it is absolutely necessary to establish a stronger economy after the tragedy that we experienced in 2008. I wouldn't hate it, Mr. Honorable President, that this bill has led to much less waste in the system and much better use of public funds than it may have been in the centuries. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u69	Madam President. We're here to discuss this big case, a bill to legalize public finances. It was taken from the committee to the 2nd. ... lastweek. I was sitting by my desk, and I wasn't on the majority opinion, making myself feel special because I come in on the emphasis that I feel is missing in the bill. In summary, this issue focuses on a more careful setting for budgeting, careful planning, more discipline, greater integration of public funds, and particularly economically. There are many good things to be found in this, perhaps thanks to the fact that many have come to the fore. As we shall see, though, some of the points that we find there are. I'd like to say, though, that there are a lot of things that I think are improving from the current law on government income and, furthermore, that the adjustment of the more part would result in something better. However, I am here to make some comments that I feel are part of the key text that has been called below and will explain the following. It is important to remember that making laws is not enough. In this regard, it has been said that even change of mind needs to be made and that it needs time. I was rereading notes from the traveling committee, present and former, to Sweden, where it took quite a while to implement it. I think it could be, and that's why we need to be ready for this not to solve all problems with government financial administration on a single board or as soon as the law takes effect. It'll take years to fully infiltrate this. There are a number of structural changes to be made, and I agree with what was being discussed earlier in the discussion about the growth of the advisers. I think it's part of something that has to happen, and hopefully they'll be even better equipped to cope with the big changes involved. And I'm also glad that we're more involved with our rural society, even more than ever. We've been moving a lot of projects into the countryside even more than ever, and the state wants to do more of it, and that's why it's very important that we walk in. However, it is being put here to a certain limit the financial control of rural society by the rules presented here, it is not to be denied. Whether it is right to do so in order to maintain stability in public finances is a matter of pondering whether it is right to do so. Society's efforts have been far better than the government so far, especially by the development of the 2011 new law, despite the worsening of some of their situation. Also, in the context of the fact that the state can increase its income in a number of ways that its communities do not have the opportunity to earn. The European Union has also pointed out that there are 40 different countries. it is stated that the terms of the contracts of services committed by the rural community are legally presponsored. The Union criticizes that budgets are not binding, as happens to private sources on the basis of tenders, and that the decision to reduce the government contracts should therefore be made as a legal committee on the basis of contracts. I have to agree that we like to make laws and rules about various projects, but they always depend on each year's budget instead of making binding contracts for a long time. The relationship also makes a comment on the market income and believes that it is at 51 p.m. does not make it clear, but assumes that various markets, such as planning fees, unemployment insurance, subsidies on top of the treasure, etc., will remain markets, since if not, they call for formal debates on the change in financial relations between state and rural society. So I'm interested in whether the market income bill will be submitted. It also reminds us that there should be a clear context between financial and legal projects assigned to institutions. Hard work, hard work, is less likely to get out of the way, that is what we agree with. The baseline values are good in the bill because no one opposes the driving of sustainable, conservative, stable, firm and transparent states. We left green, however, suggest a more thorough implementation of the sustainable concept in the context of the United Nations definition. This requires that we consider each article of these laws and their actions, guided by them. Instead, we want to replace it with 6. • providing more comprehensive implementation of this sustainable concept to take into account economic, social, and environmental factors and not just economic factors. We feel that other factors, welfare and environmental factors that need to be over and around as you look at and review the budget will become a better place by strengthening this rule. The basic value of financial and financial agendas is the sustainableity of public funds, as per Article 4 and 5. This includes ensuring that the public can always depend on its commitments to all the conditions of sustainable development. We believe the bill needs to be adjusted to this globally accepted definition, but the majority of it disagrees. Here, the attitude has been presented only in committee bodies, and the distribution may not have the legal place that this legal text has. We left greens want to ensure that the integration of these three factors into decision-making as soon as we prove that each generation does not live at the expense of another generation. I'm glad that in the bill, we're officially putting a sensory economy into law. There are many who do not realize what is involved when it is spoken of, and that is true of their rural communities. This may be a wording that has been taking root, but it has taken a firm explanation. When we look to where we share the money, we are affected by a gender economy. We can put money into lawsuits and try to balance it. This also makes societies and countries more aware of how they spend their money and how their communities want to build up. Regarding the contributions and treatment of this assembly, the bill, the budget should be submitted in the spring in the form of a synonym where we will discuss the big lines. It is not likely that the discussion will become more extensive and more difficult, since it needs to be over the top of the summer, and some form of agreement can be reached. However, it should be noted that as soon as we agree to the spring plan, we accept the budget and within it we have to move things around when it comes to dividing. I'm not optimistic, but I've been dealing with the financial work of the present government because the bill is nothing more than a political policy goal. In each spring when a plan is submitted, whether it's the tax policy or the income or what it is, and the budget development according to the language, we put the total frame on the field, which we can move to the fall. Seven. is being talked about the conditions of financial policy and financial agendas. It shows that the aims of the policy and financial programmes of the government, the A-part of the State Fund and the A-part of the rural community should be in line with the conditions that the greater part has proposed, that the total balance of funds and bank accounts should always be less than 30% of GDP, and that the total debt rate of 2.5% is greater than 30%, except for the average of life-related commitments and debts of every three years, and that at least 5% per year, is less than 30%. We left greens have not agreed to these conditions. When it comes to space in the use of government funds for economic management and fluctuation, we feel that these are too narrow and have suggested that the articles as presented will be dropped, whereas it should be decided that each government should in the beginning of its working time puts forth its goals in the same financial programme. The aims should include positive overall equations over an average period of time and indicate a peak of slopes per year and the maximum total debt of the public to be targeted at each turn. This gives us greater opportunities to respond to the fact that the bill does not comment on other potential impacts of government, e.g. maintaining employment levels or ensuring proper structure of material or social infrastructure, etc. It was also observed by some members of the Committee that the slope target should be linked to a fluctuation-corrected slope, where connecting the square rule with the unstuffed slope can make the state's budget a swing. The evidence is that this 30% reference does not rest on international standards; the Maastricht conditions, for example, account for 60%. In itself, there has been no particular evidence for the debt policy but that this can be done. I remember that there are about 17 billion that we would have to pay down every year to meet these criteria in the years that are large in the amount of money. It has also been pointed out that from the perspective of social well - being nobility, it would be right for the debt target to be more determined by public interest for a long time. For the five - year period it has been said that it could prevent this economy; there is no guarantee of balance and can even hinder balance. This is too short, as the economic crisis could be much longer, and the contract could even be present, even though financial order requires maintenance measures that go against the conditions that then exist and increase contractions. Similarly, the slope goal in itself has not been ambiguous, this 2.5% slope point. It has also been said that these financial rules do not suggest anything for economic management during the runoff period or in the event of an imbalance, but they may be unnecessary to work on the consequences of the recession period. It has also been said that we have been within these boundaries until a very long time of collapse. So we ask: What does this add? It is claimed that this rule does not have an impact because economic instability is often rooted in overexploitation. It follows that taxes grow beyond the underlying economy, and if the financial management was active, they are forced not to reduce taxes during the filing period or, for example, to raise them because of undeserved revenues, on the sale of financial property or anything else, but none of these are mentioned in the bill and have not been specifically through it. The problem may be said, then, that those who have been in authority at one time have not been prepared to maneuver the state into a series of difficult times, to increase performances, and to create new jobs, as well as other factors that could lead to a state of situation and political pressure. As we had before the collapse, we lacked discipline, and this bill is certainly an attempt to correct it, but we lack the discipline to store for the lean years and to use the rest to counteract the expansion. There's one in 7th. which the more part I've recorded, the more I thought was positive. For all of these conditions, it is extending time from two years to three, in terms of the possibility of compromising conditions in Article 7. That's one of the benefits. But our left greens thought it was totally dramatic that when we had reached the point where the consequences had become such, we could take action to turn aside from this 7. g., thought maybe it was a little late in the ass. Therefore, we would have made this a matter of space and suggest, by permission of the president, that instead of the words "projects of economic conflict," national years, or other circumstances‡ in the 1st issue. 10th par. come: particular or challenging social, economic or economic conditions. By doing so, we can respond sooner. Then I'd like to step up just to the implementation of the budget bill on page 40 and page 41. That's where we've been talking about the budget and where it's at. This has also been discussed regarding the transfer of authority from the council to the Commission, and we have been concerned about this on the committee. According to the 40th grade. The bill is expected to increase the authority of the directors of the institutions in a nonessential manner. Despite the fact that a minister's authority is fully in my bill, I think it's reasonable to say 40. use sharpness. It suggests that the directors can make five years contracts for controlled business projects that cover up to 25% of their annual budgets, or that employ those funded by their own income, totally without consent, or by the local minister. At the first 10%, we think it would be more reasonable than we would like to add, for example, to the intervention and approval of one quarter of each institution's budget and to run on enormous amounts of money if we think of our big foundation, Land Hospital. We've been talking a lot about financial advice. We received, among other things, information from OECD, who made a report on financial resources in six countries. We received information on the challenges faced by the financial Council of Independence and that governments can fail to ignore any comment made by the financial Council. But if there's supposed to be a real discipline, it's very important that it's completely independent. I think it's very important that you don't have a residence in the Ministry, that there isn't just some office next to the financial office. It is also important that this financial advice has access to all the information needed. I hope we have the wisdom to handle the task of finding people in those people and finding them a place where they'll settle, whether they'll be at Government Accounting or where they might be. It is important to follow the baseline values mentioned earlier at chapters 6 and 7. and that we'll experience that it's independent. We would even have wanted to go so far, and not out of public finance, to have the Agency, which was sadly decomposed, a national interest agency. It would have been even better if we were to appoint such an institution. She did quite well with the government in the past. Now that such enormous changes are being made, it is one of the things worth looking for. It is also this length and distance that are so important. Regarding the coming of the council, it is based on the initial plan. It's a little different in Sweden. Based on what I went through and read again yesterday, the budget board has more authority there than here; the council may find it more important to examine the bigger picture than less in pay decisions on extraordinary sums. Of course, it has advantages and faults. I'm worried that the government might have a little weapon in this. I would have wanted to see in this law that the financial office was strengthened or that the council was strengthened to allow the government to produce and have things calculated. According to the bill, all forms of change are to be calculated, and this may not be good for the situation as it is today. Hv. The chairman of the legal committee came into question whether a change might be needed. Then people wonder if this is going to work out governmently, i.e. how far you can go during the production of this bill and in the forwardment of funds for a minister. We've had a lot of discussions with the package leaflet, which is really the breakdown of the language category, i.e. Where's the money going? It's not a law reference, and I still have a little problem with it being that way. That, of course, means less. We can make a suggestion to the Minister of Education on paper that the University of Akureyri, so I'll just mention something, get extra money, but it's still totally up to the Minister whether he's gonna follow it and I won't talk about it if there's any less of it, it might be less. But this can become more challenging, but we certainly try and continue to work on certain issues. It is also said that changes in the budget are not to be adversely affected by the income balance of the state budget. Of course it is. But as for this process, we were always going to get some kind of play, where we would go through the way it would be done if we were going to make adjustments. We haven't really gone through it yet. We certainly got an excel document where the language field appeared and we got subclasses, how the current bill would be divided. It was pulled out and it was for the good, but it doesn't matter that we haven't yet gone through it, and I worry that the council isn't ready yet. It has been observed, in conversation with the House of Congress, that there are doubts that they are quite ready to do so and whether all of this works out. I still feel like I'm in a tiny vacuum there. A respectable president. Time is always passing quickly. One thing I find positive about this policy is 20 and 21. This bill reminds me, with emphasis on determining the quality of the service and the financial resources, on reaching goals, and on clarity of success. I think it's a good thing. It's always better when you're being shaped and plans that you see how you're going to measure things. On the other hand, all of this is done within the Ministry and within the lawsuits, and if I understand this correctly, we do not have much to do with it. It's mainly the Ministry itself, but we've just been talking about a lack of transparency and lack of it. I know they won't both be released and held. Whether in the ideals or in the litigation categories, we will continue to fight for our own interests. However, the thought remains that it may not be a good discipline to be unable to stir it or to offer suggestions on certain organizations. I don't think it's the fact that we're staying within the litigation parties. Secretary of finance is to inform the budget on the state and development of financial programmes and other ministers I believe are good. But what advice does a minister of finance have if he is faced with a plan on another minister that he does not consider to be convincing? Must he throw it all back in the relevant Minister? Perhaps these are doubts that always apply, but this is one of the things I have not felt particularly clear either. A respectable president. I've tore up only the things I have doubts about. I'm not gonna slow you down because there's a lot of good stuff on the bill. There was no discussion of all these standards here and something complicated in production, but that does not change the fact that there are a lot of fun and good things in the bill. In the end, if we take the time, I think this is an improvement in the general government of government. But for me to have been able to deal with this on the Committee, I would have had to be more specific, a law on sustainable development and other matters that I have outlined here. I suggest that there be some improvement, like these adjustments, so we can give the bill our whole heart.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u70	Mr. President. I'm so glad we're discussing 2. a bill to legalize public finances. I think it's the best part. There have been good work and cooperation in a financial committee on this matter, on the contrary. The bill, of course, has a history that is somewhat back in time; it had started working soon after the collapse, and it has been in charge of several financial ministers. I think it'll be a step forward, will increase discipline and firmness in the financial affairs, improve planning and long-term thinking that is extremely important, and increase policy requirements by the Minister. You might ask yourself, " Do I need a new law because we have a law on the government's income that is quite good, but we don't follow it? ' And should work on long - term thinking and other factors not just be a normal practice today? For example, in our memory, we have criticized the fact that we do not believe in the State's financial laws for financial support, since there are not always unexpected factors. But it's making the big change that it's very necessary, that, I think, now bringing a new total law that covers many or most things and it's especially nice that it's done in peace, quite in the way. This is something that everyone agrees on. If we do not all share in the work of increasing discipline and firmness and doing things better, the law does not matter. I've found preparation for the Ministry of Economic Affairs very good, a lot of knowledge about this bill, a lot of work going on in the government and the government, which is very important because it's not least about the administration, but also about the district, but not just the General Assembly and maybe a financial committee. It may be worried that according to this bill, financial policies will be made for five years and then financial programmes each spring to three years. We are now dealing with a budget bill for 2016. It has hardly been suggested in the process of making changes, which are basically for the 2nd. If we can't even plan a few months ahead, you ask yourself, " Can I plan three years in advance as we really have to do? ' It calls for a different thought, another practice, and that's what I think is the most reason to fear that it will not work. That's why it's so important that we talk about it, we realize that there are some problems that we have to skim off, it's probably not going to go smoothly for us, but we're not going to give up, we're not going to go on. This is not so that as soon as this bill becomes a law, we are in the highest order and can begin to compare ourselves to Sweden as we would like to do when it comes to funding and public finances. This takes time, and we need to keep our patience on it and not give up. That's what I wanted to say. There are some articles that we have more than others. It may have been 7. the financial rules that did not agree with. I'm very into the financial rules. They were talking about a spending order and a what. In her talk, the chairman of the legal committee discussed that she wanted to see a budget. I have an understanding of that point of view, and I remember that it was in the review of the Society of Employment, which gave me an excellent reason for the importance of such a rule. However, since governments at one time have an obligation to set a spending rule in their own budget, this should be enough. I think the rule of debt is more important. I'm generally in favor of these rules. Farmers have also made rules, and they have proved to be effective. We also discussed 13. G., on financial advice, and spent a considerable amount of time on it. I feel that this is a very important article and that it is important to be successful. Of course, if these laws are broken, no one is going to jail, in some respects just a procedure set out by the council and the government. The Council of Financial Affairs is to be independent of advice made up of three members with knowledge of government finance and financial policies, and the Council is to publish their comments publicly. The structure of financial schemes varies widely from country to country. We have considered this, and I felt that I was on the committee's side to add this article. For example, we suggested that the chairman be appointed to five and the other to three, so that at the same time everyone did not stop and those in the financial council did not sit more than twice in a row. I would have even wanted to strengthen this article, and I still have to find out how the financial Council will work. Will all be part-time financial advisers? Is the Chairman going to be the manager? How extensive is the role of the Governing Body? On the basis of the financial counsel we have considered, there is little really to be expected of it. We examined the Swedish financial Council. International standards do not seem to be appreciated, but they do give the opinion of government regulations, financial stability, employment markets, tax change, government investment policy, debt control and public financial independence. I hope that as the wind progresses, we will strengthen the financial council and see that it is important that it is able to perform normally and even expand its tasks. It says in points, because the budget board went to Sweden and studied things where I thought it was really good, that it is claimed that there is no tangible results in knowing, but its reports became widely available during general discussions and in the council on the economic and financial issues. I trust that as time goes on, financial advice will become stronger. It is not stated where it will be saved. I think it's important that we don't get saved at the Ministry of finance. They need to ensure complete independence. Perhaps it would be wise to keep it at the residence of the State Reexamination Agency or one of the general institutions. At least this is a good start, and I'm glad we got a little better. What we did not get into and really need a discussion or even a plan is how we handle these matters, a financial bill, and something else, during our therapy. I don't think that's quite clear. We've got time for that, and I'm sure there's a way to change the Senate law. I still haven't figured out how senators make adjustments. In Sweden, the smaller part or the administrative side puts forward its own financial bill, each category can put forward its own budgetal bill on a vote. Of course, we do not have a position to do so. I don't see that in the near future, the council will be so promoted that class members have a position to write their own bills. It is a question of what adjustments are made. I also feel very important that professional committees, or members of the council, not just a financial committee, come to the budget bill. We can think of it as one of the world's top-of-the-art Board of Education, one of those lawsuits that fall under it like high school and college, and one another. My experience in the budget is that we somehow have the surface, and I often feel that professional committees need to dig deeper into things. That's how it is in Sweden, and I think it is to be imitated. I hope so. We have a detailed committee opinion that I think is what needs to be said. I want to thank you again for your cooperation. A little babble came into the boat when the matter was taken out this summer. This was not done at peace with us in my memory. We took the matter back in the fall and have been working on it ever since. I have to say, it's been a very good and enjoyable teamwork. This is how I feel we should be working here at the council. In fact, so much work has been done on the committee that the debate at the council doesn't have to be overwhelming, since everyone repeats what everyone else has said, as I sometimes feel is the case here. So I think it's an example of work. Before I do what I want to do, I want to point out that one of the things we have to do is be on the move with a lot of things. We compare ourselves with Sweden, and I think it's good to look there for advice and see how things are done there and learn from it, such as a state reexamination report for a joint bill. The annual accounts of the institutions and annual reports of the Minister are two to three months earlier than here. Sweden is, in fact, early in the process. We need to be, too, if we are to be well - mannered.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u71	Mr. President. First, I want to say thank you and be glad we've arrived to discuss this bill at 2nd. I think the bill, if it's approved, will completely change work on the budget and give us future profits, even if it requires spending the cost of its induction. There must be a cost to induction, but from the year 2017 onward, there will also be some cost to the council, where the duties of members of the Parliament will be greater. The bill, like what. A pilot, a w. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, went over, has been working in a long time. This has been in preparation ever since 2011, working on two governments, which should be a good foundation to settle matters. Granted, in late hours of work at the bill, new recommendations have been made, and I will review them better afterwards. The key to the fulfillment of the bill and its objective is to establish a solidarity of the Kingdom. Senators. What a key to this! Senators are ready to participate in these changes. This will mean that we need to put down a tradition that has been used for many years. To get to a better place in the budget, we need discipline. First of all, I think it's important that we are moving in the spring with both financial and financial discussions. A new government is designed to provide financial policies on major sizes and to apply them to five years of age. It should be a long-term plan. We've made plans like this for three years, but changing them from year to year has not been easy. But it is now being said that a new government will put forth a five - year budget and budget for each year, further implementation of this policy and policy will not be changed unless something is absolutely out of control. It has long been critical of a government financial policy that is determined without sufficient regard for the economic situation, as the bill says. We have not considered economic conditions or economic goals. The work being done on the bill includes covering a specific period of financial policy and always following the defined baseline, as specified in Article 6. and I'll find that in addition to the goals of financial policy, there are conditions that are set out in the bill on debt status and survival of the government, such as 7 paragraph 7. The bill. In this article, we will consider Article 6 of this article. and the value and understanding of the greater part on what values are meant. I'd like to quote the committee, Mr. President, regarding this. It says: At 6 a.m. The bill considers baseline financial policy and financial programmes, i.e. Sustainableness, caution, stability, firmness and transparency. In this context, the more part brings up the fact that by sustainable development, it aims to stabilise between economic, social, and environmental factors. This requires integration of these three factors to decision-making as soon as it is referred to that each generation does not survive at the expense of other generations. The basic values that depend on both financial and financial policies are the ones I listed and are listed in Article 6. and sharpening the understanding of the first and foremost objective of the committee's list of objects. These financial policies presented by a new government must be approved at the Council. In the context of financial policy goals and how it is expected that they will be achieved, the conferences and inquiries on the basis of financial policy debates will be developed. The budget shall then be based on agreed financial policy and financial programmes are aimed at reporting the measures and ways needed to achieve the objective of financial policy. The text with the bill also discusses the opinion of financial policy and therefore lays the basis for a general discussion of government policy on government finance of the government. This is to be done shortly after the start of a new government. It is agreed and discussed both at the General Assembly and in the community with what effect the policy will be taken in the big lines until the age of five. Then, each year a financial program, where this is more down and shows what to do for each year in order to meet its policies. This is the expansion of financial policy goals and the basis for policy-making policies on income, cost and economy of public citizens. This is exactly the same here, the financial program is being discussed at the General Assembly, and I am convinced that by this process there is increased power for the council. In the spring, we will discuss not only how to spend the next year's income but also how to spend long term on each department's policy. I think, for example, that if this bill had already become a law, it would not have been possible to bring the high school of Hafnarfjörður down without a discussion at the General because of the long term educational policy being introduced and approved at the General Assembly. With members of Congress, we gain greater power to influence and accept the discussion before the majority agree on how things should work out for their own interests. I think 28. par., 29. and 30th parr. To ensure that the changes made by members of the Parliament agree to be carried out with the documents of financial programmes all the way in, as if changes are made, they must be introduced to a budgetary committee and done before the final decision is made. I think it's moving, fortunately speaking, otherwise I wouldn't be so happy about this bill, growing power into the chamber where they belong. It has been stated that this is a government bill and Minister's bill, that it is taking on greater power to the council soldiers. However, when a person is considering the material, it is quite clear that it is the opposite, that it is being discussed with policy and decision to the council. Hence, we need to strengthen the council, and this will cost us something in the next few years while we are finding ways to do so. I want to say something. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, when he said: "Yes, cost will follow the introduction of this bill, but it would probably be a longer investment, since improved management will bring us a better investment. There will be more policy in our decisions. Now I've talked about how happy I am with this bill. But I'm sorry, I can't accept it all, and I'm on the 7th floor in advance. This article deals with the financial rules. It includes the fact that the total balance of over a five - year period should always be positive and during the annual period of less than 2.5% of land production. This means that, according to current land production, tails must not exceed 50 billion or so. We need to make a positive average in five years. The way we handle matters in five years may involve over 100 billion bridges. All right. However, when you read this article, you will ask: " What problem is to be solved by this rule? On the ground, there are two views. On the one hand, it can be very useful to use sliding to soften the economic crisis that will inevitably take place at relatively regular intervals here on earth. Of course, this was very clear after a collapse, but it was also true of smaller traumas. The other is that political pressures, in the face of the ongoing destruction of the state, can result in too much pressure on the State's debt and space to deal with real disaster when it takes place less than ideal. Both views can be reasoned in some way. But in this country, there is quite a good agreement to cover the debt of the State, and in general, much pressure is not being put on spending money. It's been like this ever since 1990. Since then, the Icelandic state has been driven with the goal that debts are generally low. It was shown that when the collapse was imminent, the state's funds were practically in debt. However, after the collapse, it appears that there has also been a general agreement of all groups on the importance of developing a link to the state's lattice, in which state debt as a share of GDP would decline. It has been pointed out that such rules as those mentioned in paragraph 7. may be damaging to the public because they do not provide government funds enough to cope with fluctuations through temporary sluices. And problems, wantonness to work on a leanless government fund, don't exist that call for such rules. In fact, the implementation of such rules could harm the good cow in this country, and these rules could lead to the belief that the State's debt was 30% in good years, as 2 and 3, instead of aimed at lowering it to zero. We'll review the bill to what? For the majority of the committees, a legal committee was not asked to bring down the 7th suit. ... away. Hence, the smaller portion stressed emptying rules for short - term tilting, allowing more tilting to a minimum during a bad year, and spending more time in order to achieve steady state. This accord was established on the Committee, and adjustments are made at Article 10. which aims to see that when something cannot be handled - it could be a national problem or something else, a financial failure, or the like, explained by Article 10. -...the financialprogramming can be decommissioned. Then the government must create a new policy, bring it into the council, and reason on why the arrangements presented there must be made. It must be at least five years old, but the rules can be removed for up to eight years. Not only will it be done, but financial advice will have to say that this is not just some weakness in the handling of money but it is actually a situation where the government's policy cannot be followed. We said, "If it's the 7th parr." That's where we're supposed to be. We've got to make room for 10. and allow more space to deal with the problem. It would have been best, though, instead of legalizing financial regulations as suggested, to follow that way in the way so many countries go, that each government makes an enormous goal for survival and debt. These tiny goals were discussed with policy and agreed by the Council. It would be adopted every five years by the General. In terms of debt, I can accept the goals set there because it is of great importance that a nation that is so debted as if we are covered with credit. Now we owe it so much that we can't afford much. It doesn't necessarily mean that we're making ourselves at home, but we might get some personal trauma in a foreign country that we own at the expense. Then we are in debt to have to cut down our welfare system rather than have a chance to increase the angle that we cannot because we owe so much. That is exactly what happened at the collapse. At that time, we were so debted that we could not use a government fund to try to reduce the damage we had to have done. Happily, we had paid off debts and were so well off. Mr. President. Time is running fast. It's a big, big bill. Of course, before me, speakers have taken a closer look at other chapters. The two things I've been discussing here are very important, financial and financial policies, and then the values that are meant to be under both and then the financial rules and the faults of legalizing financial rules, as suggested by the bill. Again: On the budget board, we all insisted on making peace with the bill. Well, we did it. Although I have a warning at 7th. The change was reached at 10 g. ... thattakesthemostflips. I am convinced that if we senators can lock arms together to make this fundamental change in the development of public funds, it is a success. We will be richly rewarded for the future. Not next year, since they will be costing all of this, but they will pay in the long run. Of course, while I like the bill and its goals and values, the bill is a work of men and is sure to come up with all sorts of defects along the way that we may have the good fortune to fix, but we have the strength to cope with the changes that will certainly take several years. With these words I will finish my word.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u72	A respectable president. This is all the most interesting and important thing in my opinion. I'm not going to give a long talk here, I'm just going to review one point that has been often spoken of in this councilroom, and that's the budget. Often it has been complained that the procedure is not good enough, not understandable, or something like that. Of course you're right. One thing we in The Piranha have put the most emphasis on, and thank you very much. The budget is very much available for having been available in computer formats and in open media, and these data should be available to all in a computer-created way. I'd like to read from the committee party of the greater part on this, with the permission of the president: ▪ The more part suggests that a paragraph be added to 16. g., the format of a bill for funding, as it shows that the numeration of the bill should be available in a computer format and in an open media, and that data is available to all the public for computer development. With this addition, it is intended that each year's budget will, for example, be easily controlled with the budgets of the previous year and with the financial bills, but also that financial data will be more efficient for post-production, such as more efficient analysis and implementation. There are examples of this even now in some parts of the administration, including the government's financial institutions, which provide governmental bills in a format that can be used electronically. I am delighted because while members of the community themselves and individuals in the community may not be able to use computerized data because they are thought of for computers rather than for people to read, it is still useful to the general public and members of Congress if it is published in computerized form that everyone can use. Only one person in the community with some knowledge of the computer, hopefully not even a lot of computer knowledge, in order to reexamine the data, to shed light on something else that is not easy to identify, and of course it will benefit the public, and it will benefit all of us as well. One of the most fun things I know about this is the web site of each tax. But the data there are set out in a way that the common citizen is much easier to understand and understand, and is simply more fun. I have high hopes for it and, in fact, claim that this law will enable humans to do so, and it is a great improvement in my opinion. It is often complained that the bill's presentation is so difficult for even members of Congress to grasp. Of course, it's true too, but I'm stressing that this refers to raw data, the data itself, which are designed to use the computer technology to somehow analyze and produce the data. The wording means an open data, an open format that everyone can use, CSV, XML or anything. It doesn't matter exactly how it is set out as long as the format is accessible to all, and everyone can make the most of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u73	Mr. President. Of course, I'm glad that the matter has come to this place with its long lead. We'll talk to the 2nd. This bill on public finance, total legal legislation on the state's income, and the total financial cover of public funds in total, state, and rural society that have been involved in the last four to five years can be said to be quite hard to come true. In fact, this may be said to be an even longer case, since it may have come up with ideas of reevaluating the financial laws called before a collapse, but it began to be taken into account in terms of these matters, and among other things, cooperation with the World Bank of Pay paid paid paid paid paid went on to consider what measures were needed to be made in order to strengthen the structure of these matters. The result was that the first financial deportment of the local community was perhaps the state of that situation when the collapse occurred that something more was needed than any future laws on government finances. It took enormous measures to save the Icelandic government from bankruptcy, and with the fine results that in 2013 it was achieved in terms of government wealth, and since then there has been some leftovers, indeed, too little money since then, and perhaps more concern is that the leftover has been formed primarily because of the temporary, irregular income to which the state has fallen, and not necessarily because of the progress of the state since 2013. The financial rules of the rural community were based on the proposal from a Community and rural society to be completed in 2011. They went into effect on January 1, 2012, and without a doubt they have had a good effect. It has meant that almost all societies in close financial status have been busy trying to correct key social security numbers and many rural societies to achieve some results, although, unfortunately, their feet have again gained weight and most of the larger rural areas are facing even worse results. For example, if you look at parts of the major rural community, you have also gained weight from them, and many of the large rural communities have survived by shifting income from B-part institutions to the general community business. I miss it, and I said it in return to what. paritaprevir In fact, Vigdís Hauksdóttir, president of the Fundament Committee, has not since continued the positive progress in the relations of the state and rural communities that were hoped for, that men have abandoned a formal economic agreement. I have reason to believe that the atmosphere in the context as well as the meeting at the JOSS has caused people to be less light than you would like to be. As evidence of this, the local community's appeal and the local community are in many places over the past few months, losing sight of the state's position and the strength of those who are not yet in business with the current government. Of course, the bill is set up as it should, that there will be an overall change in the subject, and is in many ways accomplished, and there is no reason to criticize, in my opinion, its installation. The whole process is being developed, but there are, of course, unique elements that, to a certain extent, make it normal to be divided, and that is in our case. I refer to the Committee's opinion of a smaller part of the economic and financial legal committee and the presentation of our representatives on the budget. What caught my attention right away when I read the bill and the report was that it was impossible to overlook the fact that a certain inconsistencies exist in the bill itself and logical support and fine swathing in the bill's paper. No other conclusion can be drawn than that after laying the basis for the case and writing the argument, some people were able to move things into the bill because the propellers are tightened harder than they would expect when you read the report. The article is an interesting reading, and I encourage senators who have not already read it in several places. For example, in the section on the part of public financial support in the economic climate, it highlights the fact that we meet up with nearly 40% of the national production through government activities, i.e. State and rural society. It's a size that is nations' size so enormous that the way they treat money has a tremendous impact, not just on their daily lives and interests, but also in a practical way. This is finely tore, such as on page. 24 says, with the permission of the president: It is generally considered that because of its size and importance, the government should bear in mind the economic impact of its activities in making decisions on the financial matters. This means that the government will tear sails when the economy is open, but it will shut down the sails when the economy is low. In this way, the activity that the government has to do with the demonstrations of the economy in other respects works. Old Keynes would have been extant by this text. It's nothing but free passism like he's just going to be the best. They say: A money policy affects the demand for the loan system, and if it works well, the economy can be adjusted by the economics being carried out in the area of the Media Bank. It is important that government financial policy and financial policy contribute to that (i.e. polo-mixture) goal of maintaining the price constant. Thus harmonizing with economic management has been prevented, but it has often wanted to burn with the related inflation and instability of gangs. Something's true and right about this. The economy in Iceland sums up the last few years. In fact, the text of the bill is even further on page 20. 25. In the middle of the page, we say, with President's permission: At worst, a rhythmless government policy can prevent the Sustainer from achieving its prices, resulting in a high rate of growth and high inflation, as has been true in our area. Clearly, the national financial policy in this country has for many years been out of shape not only in the course of the economy but also in the actions of the Federal Bank. This is a huge offense over the economy looking further but unfortunately, Mr. President, and I think the current government needs to read this text. What's the bat saying today? He has begun to raise the exact same concerns that now that he is left alone with the task of trying to ensure stability and to prevent balance in the economy. He is ashamed of the bloody shame of many for raising interest, but no one wants to look at himself and, above all, the government as if it has no responsibility to work with the Federal Bank for a reasonable economy and to maintain stability. I have to say just as it is, if the discussion comes back to this plan as it often was in the years up to the year 2000, we haven't learned anything. Then people have not read or at least failed to take note of a report by the World Council of Research, which is also a devastating judgment of how these things were going in their way as the state grew west, and the Secret Bank of the East, and everything went to coldwashes, as it is well known. If successful, can the bill help in these materials? Yeah. Of course, it is clear that it is designed to create a more solid frame, to coordinate this with the rest of public finances, and to try to ensure responsibility and stability in these areas. But there has to be an effort to work on that project so that you do not lose out on the fine views and values that are tore up in the bill's report and that I was to account for, i.e. that the government budget and finance of the government can be used in a reasonable way to counter the undesirable paces and to help instead of working against the Navy's economic and financial initiatives. It will draw near to the point of how rigid the frame can be. I make the most serious comments on the contents of Level 7. The bill, did it right through the 1st. about the matter and must be repeated; therefore, I specifically agree and highlight the change in the memory of the part to approach matters differently in that article. I believe this frame of 7th pars. that the total balance of over a five-year period should always be positive and annually less than 2.5% of land production can be all too rigid. I'm not talking about if there's only a 30% share of GDP, which is, of course, very low. Of course, all of us want our debts to be as low as any. But that is not the reality today, and most countries have been able to push themselves to such lengths without a list of debts, and it is only natural if the public finances are used in the way the bill's report is to be carried out. This may mean that it is not merely justified or inevitable, that the state and the public invasion of society and the economy through a period of hardship by collecting some debt, paying them down so quickly once the economy has taken over, and is in good condition. I think that frame may be too stiff and men may need more than men may assume, and it's almost 10. for reexamination of financial policy. It also provides a very narrow prerequisite for getting out of Table 7. It takes almost huge disasters, they need national threat, some major economic catastrophes instead of talking about, as we wish, that this is possible because of the challenges of social, economic, economic, economic, environmental, and social conditions. I am staying on this because I don't see that the more part is in any credible way with this dual nature of the parts, which can be said to be on the journey or contradiction in this, that, on the other hand, I have a responsible and reliable framework which means that there is considerable discipline on humans when they lay down on these materials, but not to thwart the device to promote the success of social development, since it must be what this is all about, Mr President, at the end of the day, that all of this works together to make one's life successful and good. Therefore, I think it is a far more satisfying approach to have either a greater flexibility in these frames - in one case, it seems to me that the larger portion will agree on it by extending only the periods that can be below, e.g. ... you'rediscreetoftheconvictionof7 st. - or simply do as suggested in a move of 7th par. of the smaller parts, huh? paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, that these goals shall be set forth publicly and bindingly by a government at the beginning of each terms or at the beginning of a government service period, if any other government exchange occurs. Then let the cards be shown, what goal they set for a positive overall over a period of time, an extended period of time, which roof would like to put on the balance of the individual years or something, and what percentages of the public are the criteria. I have not seen any evidence, and I think that came out and was recognized that economic or historical evidence does not represent, for example, 2.5% of the squares point in one year or 30% of the debt ratio that is much lower than the average relative to elsewhere. I can agree that it is reasonable to have a relatively low credit threshold for Iceland, although only for one reason, here's the financial cost in general, interest costs will likely be higher than in other countries. We are not in a position to retain 250 percent of the gross domestic product, which has been made for years by Japan without going under. Why can Japan do that? Because interest is very low. Japan is able to finance itself on something incredibly low despite a huge debt because Japan is full of money and, as a result, it is acceptable to a very low profit in money because it is not easy to get to work differently, but it is not for Iceland. Of course, the other reason Iceland has to be built on low debts is because we're a small economy. We have to have a powerful balance fund to get us through that time. If we are to try to be an open small economy with an independent currency, it is clear that it includes a requirement for a highly stable financial matter, a somewhat powerful currency reserve, and other such items, which surely cost. Indeed, it means that humans must make the sacrifices that are involved on its altar to handle situations. So I think that's the main problem of 7th degree. is that the frame is too stiff. What is overlooked, in my opinion, is the fact that when the economic crisis comes, when the downturn of the economy, the economy itself eats up almost immediately. It simply happens because expenses tend to grow and income becomes fewer. Or what happened in 2009? Expenditures increased dramatically, and income collapsed, and that is what happens in large economic cycles. Expenditures are growing because of increased unemployment, because of more debt to be paid than your income is lost because of a recession in the economy. Then, as soon as there is nothing left to put Kingdom interests on the rise, all the space will be gone. If you think that this frame is just unchangeable and natural laws, then the economy will alone, if it becomes large, wipe out the space, and there will be nothing left to put the government against the pace. If the debt goal was met and the total public debt, a total of state and rural society, as calculated here, would there be any danger of using public funds to promote the economy and protect society from demolition? No, of course not. Because men have come far from all danger zones with only 30% debt, or were we not happy in most of Iceland's times if we had been able to do so? Yes, I'm afraid so. So I don't think it's a good idea, and I'm especially surprised that men don't attempt to have those standards adjusted for the economy so that the economic pressure is set aside and that they look at the underlying basics. If the years below the downturn are the year, and if the irresponsible right controls are in power, which uses the opportunity and lowers the spherical businesses of the state under those circumstances, then there will be a breakdown of foam, and the foundation will be much weaker, with less than any scope for the government's use of the money. If they have not done this, if they have run the state with handsome living things, and not the weak income foundation, they will at least be there to cope with the trauma when the downturn is down, and the situation is less severe. There's a lot more than that, Mr. President, I'd like to discuss, I'm probably going to have to give another speech, I'm probably about halfway about what I'd like to talk about. In the end, I'm going to say that we too are disappointed that we agree with the smaller parts, that there should not be an agreement. The budget for taking in the established standards of sustainable development, with a reference to sustainable development on a different level. It's a little ironic that we'll be here at the end of November, just before the big climate conference begins in Paris, and the situation in Iceland is that the root text on the public financial structure of sustainableity cannot be included. What would we have liked to see? What this means. This means that sustainable thinking is not defined narrowly as just an economic thing, in the understanding that economic conditions are not living at the expense of future generations, but that social and environmental situations also should be taken into account. I'm amazed and I've heard no argument about this, but I'm told that the majority of the parts are about it in their committee party. It may be better than nothing, but it doesn't amount to lyrics, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u74	V.E.G. President. We will discuss a bill on public finances and the opinion of more things. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir went over and considered a smaller portion of the legal committee. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir went over. The matter has been at some time during the council and at the table of two well - established governments. This is a big, important case and a large number of people, representatives of the institutions and advisers have been involved in the entire process of its development, and this should result in a solidarity, both in the committee and in all the parties involved, especially among those involved. Senators. There are many positive aspects of this case. As is often said about public financial matters, there is a call for increased discipline and elected representatives, hm. Councilmen, they often call for it. Of course, that's a role anyway. Parliaments on budgetary committees work hard to obtain discipline and to perform precise planning and that institutions adhere to their budget and budgets. Discipline, transparency, maintenance, long - term thinking, and priorities in government are always appropriate, and we like to call it "the end" is our job. However, we have reason not to rely solely on the fact that individuals who present the coming places each time are working. Rather, the frame, the procedure, needs to be backed up by such tactics. That's why I believe that the bill, if it's legal, if there's any improvement in this area, it'll provide the framework and support for all jobs in the budget and increase the discipline and firmness we so often call for. In this context, I'm going to discuss the bill, as well as its importance in Iceland's economic management and efforts to improve economic management. The top economic objective of the government at one time, not just in this country, but in terms of the economy of all countries, is that three goals are being taken. It's a full-time job, sustainable and stable production product that we talk about as economic growth and then a stable price. It's that stability that's so desirable. Of course, these goals are interwoven, but the goal of a full - time job means that everyone has the means to feed and put a roof over his head and make his family safe. Thus, work is fundamental. For the economy, it is necessary to use the manufacturing factor in a sustainable way, and the workforce is a very important factor. On the one hand, it is the same economic growth produced by the economic use of human resources, sustainable use of natural resources, and the efficient use of capital resources that are needed for all productions which are best used by appropriate technology and organization to achieve the most production and to obtain the desired sustainableity. If we have the wisdom to make full use of the workforce and to use the natural resources in a sustainable way so that as economic growth sustains stable and improved quality of life, it is not only necessary but also more likely that the third desirable goal will be reached, which is stable and that economic growth is based on real growth in production, often referred to as enlargement, not price - bearing growth. It's this blessed inflation that we are so eager to fight in the Icelandic economy and the fluctuations in our economy. Thus, at times we have accepted a weaker gang, to some extent, in exchange for full - time goals. Thus, the economic goals I am referring to as a result of a full-time employment, economic growth, and stability. Because we are dependent on foreign transactions, we may have been able to cope with the fluctuations we have faced. Not only do we rely on exports but we also depend on import. So it is important for us to obtain at the highest price of our export products. Thus, in times past, there has been an advantage. However, in the case of full - time employment, prices are rising on domestic production and imported resources, thus increasing the price of imported consumer products. Such economic lability affects all of us, and thus the population regularly takes on the edge of the problem and the provisional income decreases that we then try to recall through collective agreements with corrections and beyond the growth that can actually exist under the elevated levels of a collective agreement. Thus, there are only short - term increases but not actual dressbacks after all. Job's life suffers from such fluctuations in which plans are difficult to plan. Salaries will be companies and institutions will be a heavy load, which is impossible to handle unless you are considering them into the prices. It is so difficult to maintain an appropriate investment in order to maintain physical growth for the future and production, and it inevitably affects the standard of living and the lifesaturation of future generations and the natural structure for offspring. This might be the explanation that young Icelanders are increasing, and now I'm talking about the situation that she is living with today, trying her luck abroad. In fact, I'm saying that I'm speculative about this situation. I haven't had an accurate study of that subject. I'm just wondering where these figures on the displaced Icelanders are available, and the media and others have discussed them. Fluctuations such as this and instability prevent companies from creating specialized and valuable jobs. It may explain to some extent this evacuation, so we are losing knowledge. At the same time, it is difficult for the job environment to achieve the growth of human resources and production tools, which, of course, are always desirable economic goals. We've never really made it out of this cycle, and so strongly we say that our financial system does not trust in a securable loan system. Rather, we trust in it and have more than half of our assets on the price - assured loans to homes. It presents an unbearable note to the common people who live through their lives, who delay saving, and who spend their own financial resources until the end of their lives. This may now be shown by the fact that more and more senior citizens still have debts when they make less pensions that are just enough for groundbreaking progress and do not depend on paying off loans. I'm going to state that I have not been in the context of these things in the context of a very thorough investigation of this field. However, there are figures that a certain percentage of older citizens are dealing with this situation. And it's a fact, whether I'm talking about an excommunicated, estateless young Icelanders or older citizens who are still dealing with debt when they retire, that there are figures in The Habitat that indicate that this is the case. Now it is time for another aspect of this business, the money policy. This has been made clear in the discussion, including When co-administered, the risk was increased. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, who gave the last talk, that it has been called for the interaction of money policy and financial policy, and is introduced into a paper with the bill. But the privatized financial system reduces the growth factor of money policy. When asked, the chief economist of the Sensian Bank told him at a meeting of difficulties. The Economic and Business Committee explained and confirmed that by growth growth it was consistent with reducing the provisional resources of the households to reduce demand and maintain inflation, that would be their primary objective. It is not wrong in itself to put it out as it is, but unfortunately, the device does not bite as it should because the increase in the future and the burden of payment is not too much for us to deal with the circumstances. Today, banks are posting roofs on cheating loans. Why is that? This is so that they begin to conduct themselves as insurance - free loans. This is not to sharpen the bites of money policy. No. Unfortunately, there is another manifestation of this vicious cycle that we must get out of and that is also shown by the latening bank, calling for financial policy to work with the money policy and vice versa. In this view of economic goals, it is so important to examine the bill we address here that we are taking steps toward taking into account the policy of money and its calm in the same direction that the money policy is not on the brakes at the same time that they go to the government policy. It is not just the members of the Federal Bank that have called after this and that speak in this creature that supports them in the setting of the bill. It has also made employment life and other institutions, in order to form the International Cash Fund, which helped and counseling in the preparatory work of this case. Thus, most people call this interaction two Polish in Icelandic economy. In an excellent article published on a business council, the heading "Food Without a Promise, " for example, shows that the Icelandic economy is characterized by a profound instability. It shows strong adherence to personal consumption and the crew of the crown. In comparison to 15 developed industrial states, both prices and economic lability are the most important factors here. What Is the Root Cause? The root of the problem is not the crown's gang, it's the economy. It also introduces important issues related to economic management. It is likely that unstableness, the exaggerated fluctuations, is an increased product of cleaning. Of course, the process of improving the quality of life and making sustainable use of not only human resources but also natural resources. This interesting article highlights yet another indication of the mood swings we are dealing with and understanding the challenges we face in an effort to improve our economy. If I draw up the subject of this article, it shows that the prices and economic changes in this country are the highest in developed developed countries. The number of workers in domestic branches increased during the period of exporting. After the crown's weakness, evolution became reverse, suggesting that the root cause of the problem lies in the economy. Investing investments, along with changes in the concentrations of the crown, are less effective with the more frequent fluctuations and higher, and the appearance of the Crown's gang changes is a reflection of instability rather than of a cause. If economic instability decreases, this underlying problem must be addressed as the economy. I'm looking at the bill we're discussing here as a step or a step in that direction. This means that there will be action in all three areas, government financial practices, as the bill is an effort, money policy, and employment markets. The chairman of the budget board, what? paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, took care of the bill and what. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir also considered the articles that the lesser part makes comments on. - I see that time is quick to leave when we discuss economic control. More than that, there is the amount of space that we think a government has at any time to deal with the situation in the economy. Hv. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon concluded that in this context it is important that there is a agreement between the articles and the conditions presented in Article 7. I couldn't agree more. That's what a senator does. However, I allow myself to put a question mark on whether the frame is too stiff. A senator counts. The conditions presented may well be permanent. However, the government under certain circumstances can decommission them and bring in new suggestions, seeking approval of a different plan and policy if that situation allows them to do so. Besides, when it comes to politics it is often necessary to work in one direction, i.e. that when things slow down or the crisis comes, we are ready to commit ourselves and expand our economic activities and use the resources that we have to create and produce and maintain quality of life, but we have a very difficult time setting up the brakes. The present government must be truthful about this, and we must always look at the circumstances we come from. Thus, it is a very delicate balance and a narrow monologue that we are trying to follow these years. But in all of this, it is very difficult for us in the political field to use high - tech methods in good - quality and up - to - date. Then the time comes when the income in the form of taxes and the expenses of the institutions and the insurance system, the insurance system that is so necessary for us, and our building up a just society in which there is equality, active as an automatic balance of the economy, and often wants it to be better, I allow myself to say, a respectable president, to help us. That's why I'm allowed to say that I'm not quite ready to agree that it's too rigid in the bill. I think there's an improvement in the fact that we're going into the discipline and regular environment, as suggested in the bill. I feel very important, as mentioned in the talks. The senators agree on this matter, and all I hear is that it's a solid agreement, and I hope we have the good fortune to take this step.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u75	Mr. President. Thank you. The speaker's talk, and he would not agree with him at this point on a specific subject, perhaps asking him primarily two questions. First of all, the bill's cost assessment. Significant costs are expected, and they are mainly in the Council of Management, due to the introduction of the case. In fact, it is now seen in changing proposals for the budget that no less than 144 million are expected. K. into the next year, due to the introduction of the case to a unique council, where the Ministry is getting its own of 12 and 24 million in its own business. It directly refers to the implementation of this particular bill. Because there's a loud noise here in the side hall - in the leading part of the committee - that it is important for the General to reevaluate his procedure, and quite short - tempered at the General Assembly during the introduction, and in a total of 19 articles in the bill, I ask. A member of Parliament, because he and the rest of the body do not argue with the Ministry of finance on the costs of the bill, how he believes that the World Council can contribute to its changing role in handling and processing of budgets, as well as the change in the size of the share in those activities. He believes that the presence of the Generals is sufficiently guaranteed in the manner presented here and in the gloom of both the expense costs and the same as the changes made by the government of the 2nd Environment. ... abundant?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u76	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Svandís's Svavarsdóttir with her question and question, because taking this step and engaging in it is accompanied by an increase in cost. This means increased demands, professional requirements, and it is obvious that this is the key to strengthening the subject of recruitment and institutions that have to deal with changed international accounting standards and taking into account the proposed professional environment. I agree with them. Councilmen who appreciate it as an investment. I think that we are taking the positive step of improving our economy so that it is simply an investment. Then there's a reason. A member of the council, and the preparation of the Generals. I'm gonna let myself say the same thing. A member of the body needs to take a closer look at the part in which he needs to strengthen and improve his professional activities. Now I know that we have a very qualified, well-educated and professional member of the Committee who works very well with the Committee in all aspects of the committee, but we should consider whether or not here will need to respond to and strengthen the professional aspect at the General Assembly. There must be exactly the same argument.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u77	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I wondered if we could agree that there will be some adjustments in the motion of 2nd. budgets, or thirds, which also ensures that the Council is strengthened and not only the European Commission is involved, for it is indeed a very delicate balance between the European Commission and the financial capital and the rest of the budget and the processing and payment of budgets from the General Assembly. There is a danger in this situation if there is a significant imbalance in knowledge of expertise and in saving that is needed for all persons to be able to do their jobs to a sufficient degree. I think it might be a concern if the Allied isn't fully depressed into the big changes if by the approved bill. I want to pray. A senator's reaction to the dangers, as I agree with him that a financial committee is well designed for members of the committee, and there is nothing wrong with that. However, this induction requires significantly more strength. Then I'd like to ask. A senator's opinion of any particular concern lies in agreeing to the conversion of a smaller part of the budget, the first one involved in taking into account economic, social, and environmental factors, i.e. to follow the UN's standard definition of sustainability in the law itself. Does he feel that there is any special political danger in following the definition into the law?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u78	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator again for good questions and speculations that must be considered. With regard to the first question and the application, to strengthen the Adolescence and the legal framework we are here to support this process, which is a budget and development at the General Assembly, I believe it is correct and said that the same argument should be made, that it is necessary to strengthen the subject and that I trust our representative on a financial committee, who has agreed on the case, to review it well. Regarding the second question I'd like to come on and I'm also very worthy, self-sustaining is very important and this social aspect, i.e. An equation that is very involved and is precisely linked to economic management today, with both OECD and other institutions that have been publishing reports and expressing themselves on that subject. Even if we take that step now and do not enter a standard, we still need to understand the standards of social factors that we can use, such as the social factor and the equation. It's a measure now that is such a social equation number called by the president's permission, which Harvard University operates on, which may be a device that we can look at and take into law, this bill will hopefully be a law, in the future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u79	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a bill to legalize public financial matters. Those who have given their talks before me have done well over the bill, which, in most cases, is worked in great agreement. I'll come in on a few things. For a while, the bill for government law has been under way, but it was first proposed to a Council of 143th. In no way has it been negative and has resulted in a more difficult reaction to work. The budgetary committees of two councils have visited Sweden to study the welfare of the estate there. The second visit had taken place with the current branch office, and it was very interesting to get to know the Swedish work. It's a visit that's very useful to our work on the bill. Data and narratives have been searched extensively, including at the World Bank, OECD, U.S. financial council, Iceland's Habitat, Government Reservation, Iceland's Secret Bank, the Department of Financial and Economic Affairs, and a host of other sources. The older federal laws are now about 20 years old, but they found that there was considerable progress at the time of their appointment and that they appointed Iceland as well as member countries of the OECD countries in terms of accounting and comparing budgets and government accounts. In recent years, more and more countries have established new financial and financial laws, many of them following the crisis of the bank. Back to the bill. It is designed to create a framework for effective economic policies and to coordinate it with the financial policies of Iceland's Central Bank. Six. The bill says the baseline value, with the permission of a president: The pharmacokinetic profile should be based on the following baseline characteristics: 1st Self - control, which involves publicizing commitments, is longer and short, and does not place unreasonable burdens on future generations. 2. Beware, of being balanced between earning and paying, and not making decisions or circumstances that may have unexpected and negative consequences. 3. A stability that is involved in making public financial policy contributes to the balance of economic matters. 4. Attach which involves avoiding unexpected or unexpected changes from existing policies and programmes for the development of public funds. 5. A transparency that includes the setting of intermediate and measurable targets for the development of public funds, in accordance with baseline characteristics of 1,◯4. the number. Regular comparisons of objective and effectiveness should be made with clear scales. Official financial policy should therefore be made over a longer period of time, and decision-making on money matters shall take into account the conditions established in the long-term budget of the budget. Compatibility of financial policy and money policy is important for successful economic management and economic stability. Public financial goals are set up in a longer term financial policy that should contribute to the sustainable development of public budgets and economic stability. The bill is the most extensive bill that has been referred to in the legal committees for years. Its terms are intended to include the total financial resources of the public, i.e. both state and community. It contains provisions for a wide range of planning and reporting, designed to promote long - term thinking and financial responsibilities, as well as to improve the annual budget. It is also aimed at strengthening funding, but in comparison with other OECD countries, the implementation has been lascivious against the region. This is indicated, for one thing, by the fact that far too often financial expenditures are not maintained. Then you will find a provision in the bill on the introduction of international accounting standards. In terms of the bill on official financial law, there is a fundamental change in the production of a financial bill. Based on the fact that the General Assembly is providing funds for litigation and litigation, as well as a contribution to a general reserve. The budget is not expected to appear on the individual organisations in a bill for financial purposes but only in a follow-up. Money sources will be broken down by language fields and litigation classes. A subject on the pay side of the budget is to be found in a fragmentation of 2 in a budget bill, with a total of about 900. This change is aimed at paying interest to a total of 34 topics, which are again divided into 105 lawsuits. The benefits of this change are that the Council deals with larger issues and exchanges in large numbers, and long - term policy, rather than with financing on individual subjects, which often weigh very little in total government expenses. A great deal of the budget suggests a number of adjustments to the bill. The majority believe that the primary objective of reducing the number of budgetors, the increase of the minister's responsibilities and financial resources in reserve is to limit largely improved funds. I'd like to access two of the changes in the rest of the section. The first leads to a review of the budget and the policy of each Minister under the 20th paragraph. The bill for the topic areas and classes responsible for which he is responsible is in line with the national groundwork and application programmes presented in a Parliamentary arrangement for a policy-making strategy. This suggests that the more part is offered to add a paragraph to the 16th paragraph. for the production of a bill to the budget where it says that the source database is available in a computerized format and in an open media, all data will be available to all the public for post-production in a computer-created way. This addition aims to provide the total budget for each year, for example. easy to compare with the budgets of the previous year and of the state account, but also that data are more efficient for post-recycling, such as more efficient analysis and implementation. Of course, induction of the bill brings additional costs, which are attributed to members of the Committee, but in the long run it is intended to save the money of the state. I would like to thank my colleagues for their excellent cooperation, which has been educational and enjoyable, and for the benefit of everyone.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u80	Mr. President. I just want to get involved in this discussion about public financial matters. As mentioned in this discussion, I think there are some suggestions here that are very good in terms of how public finance is or how we want to change it. However, I agree with the precautions that have been presented in fine talks here today, including at ease. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, who, in fact, did much better and more knowledge over these matters than I could ever do. I'd like to agree with what they said in their talks, perhaps especially with the 7th paragraph. The bill, that there is not enough room for the application of government funds when it comes to economic management, especially that which attracts fluctuation, that we are tailoring ourselves to too tight a sting. I agree that these conditions are not good enough, so I can't count under 7. The reason why I keep silent is what has been discussed in many speeches. Congress members who talk about the need to enter a disciplined environment. As far as it goes, I completely agree with that. I agree that we need more discipline in the state's affairs. What I feel is, however, the biggest challenge of today's release, i.e. that we are going to live up to commitments in all aspects of sustainable development. I think this big flaw is important because it's the big case of the day, i.e. how we plan to tailor our financial and economic systems, how we will run our society in the realities facing us in the 21st century, a world where we will have to survive to the future to reduce emissions of pollutants. We need to think about how we are going to build our work. We Icelanders, as well as all other nations, are sending representatives to Paris now in a few days of climate discussion and the way the world's nations are going to lay down on one another to reduce emissions to avoid rising temperatures and not just cooling off, unless we simply change the way we live. That's what it's all about. To me, it's also about how we can't continue on the journey that was the entire 19th and 20th centuries, i.e. improving the standard of living by always increasing in production. We're just going to increase the economy, and that's how everyone's going to make a lot of money. We can't do this anymore. This is not the way we can go in the 21st century. Unfortunately, it seems to me that people are only in their words have learned these things, i.e. ... thatwe need to reduce pollution and promote sustainability. This is everywhere said, but when it comes to the real operation, their actions will not take place. They're not signed into policy, and they're not in politics. I miss the fact that they're not written better into this bill. I think this is absolutely vital to our future. So I'd like to agree with what the Committee's Committee says from a smaller section of the legal committee that says, with the permission of the president: Public financial training is one of the main objectives of financial policy and financial planning. Sections 4 and 5. The bill. In it, including to ensure that the public can always depend on its commitments to meet all the conditions of sustainable development. However, in the definition of sustainability of the bill, economic factors are only regarded, but in international definitions social and environmental factors are also viewed, and the less part believes that the bill needs to be fixed to that internationally recognised definition. This is why I made a sound, I want to agree because I just think it's the politics we have to dedicate ourselves to, like I said. It would have been a perfect song to achieve this complete thought, not always thinking about sustainable, environmental factors or social factors in some limited box, but just getting it into the big picture, the one appearing in the bill to legalize public finances or a financial bill. I'm sorry, therefore, that this is not an agreement to be accepted into the law. However, I would like to direct it to what is happening. The senators wondered if they would agree with me that this is what we have to do. This is what the 21st century political bitch needs to think about if we're serious because we're going to make some changes, if we're going to get some results when it comes to climate change, or if we're just going to run off the cliff, as I'm sorry we're going to do, though we may say something else on days.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u81	V.E.G. President. I've watched these discussions very carefully today and listened to the financial authority speaking. Sometimes I have talked out of pride as to how to eliminate the financial resources of the institutions, how we deal with the instigating of discipline, etc. I'm going to think about who's talking about, the prospective institutions who have frequently overstepped the budget, from what has been left over. Which institutions are they? It is the land hospital, for example, and clinics, it's the law, it's the education system. We were the other day on a board of administration and monitoring committee to discuss the affairs of the Landing School of Avengers, and there they rejoiced that the Department of Agriculture at the Snatchell was getting in under dosed budgets, but the story was that he was removing the goals he was going to pursue, and the high school officials said he was removing from the agriculture in a certain way because he could not live up to the expectations of what agriculture did to him. There also came many other things during the day, how the duty had been made to that institution, but by means of legal documents it had to come. It all brings to mind that there are laws other than financial laws. For example, there are laws on patients' rights. There are laws on equality with the citizens of the country regarding services, welfare services many times. There's been no mention today. I have not heard a single word about it. Rather, I have much more to say about how to discipline government agencies and how this bill that is so before the council is so well liked to do so. This bill, however, is primarily about one thing, the International Cash Fund's interest in legalizing, they managed to do it through the S.H.I.E.L.L.L.A.'s conservatives in Sweden, for which they have been traveling there with Icelandic senators to set up a course on fictitious management, that they must be forbidden to take a debt beyond a given proportion of land production. [[Up front.]] We were reminded today that the World Bank Fund started its counseling work here with local communities, and he wanted to go very far on that subject. He wanted 100% roof, they weren't allowed to go into debt beyond that. It may have been the Minister of the Interior, who led the group that said it was way too strict and that this roof was taken up to 150%. That was warned in this council hall, not only to the prince but also to the sum. For one thing, I recall that there was a reason. ex-wife. This was done by Lilja, the daughter of Mósesdóttir, and we set up a committee to review the case. Soon after these laws were passed, certain rural societies, wanting to attack the construction of social depositors, surfaced under this roof. What, then, is the solution? What, then, can be done? What will then be the result is to turn to the market, allowing the contractors to build the post, and then the State to come. This is the main thought of the World Bank and those who are similar to it, i.e. to set such limits on government and rural development and the potential for the market in order to get into the area that the government has done in the past. It is then decided to put down a special observer, an external observer to supervise the procedure under the letter and the financial Council in Article 13. This bill. It says, by permission of the president: The Council of Justice is self-employed in his business and sets out procedures. Those appointed to finance should be impartial and have knowledge of public financial matters. The head of a financial body shall have completed advanced university education in a field of education that acts on the role of the Council. That's what I published at 1st. if we could get an idea of which person might be traveling here. Who's to keep this surveillance on us, with the budget? It has now been added to the text as suggested by the greater part that he should have a university test. In what? Danish? Theology? What's he supposed to have a college test? Impulsion and the knowledge of public finances. This party should prove that there is something here called sustainable transparent funding. What are sustainable budgets? What is it? [[Up front.]] That's what they said, I'm talking for me here, and I'm left green. I am a senator of the left movement, and I am describing views that are rich within that category. Self-sustaining funding. It was said here today that one generation cannot live at the expense of others. What did we do? What did my generation do? What did the previous generation of people who regularly borrowed a great deal of money to prepare for me and a smaller generation of well - educated, well - welfare, good health care, and many other opportunities? It cost money, and it cost a fortune. I talked about it and mentioned as an example from my own experience world when I became chairman of the BSRB in the fall of 1988, where I found that hundreds of millions of dollars of debt due to the development of the orlab-based alliance. Over the next few years, all we could do was keep up and pay off the interest. Self-important, no. Of course, it wasn't sustainable, not for that generation, but it was very sensible, and we benefited from it. It was wise for my predecessors to attack in a great, handsome structure that we all benefited from. We had to keep up with ourselves for the next few years, maybe in the next decade or so, or in the second decade, but everything was fine. That was wise. It's not supposed to be socialized, nor is it to be restricted by states and rural groups, that's not to be done. That doesn't mean that I don't want to try to have a baseless budget. It's a different arm. During my last term, I shared in the goal of reaching that goal, and we achieved it. It was our resolve, and we have a lot more responsibility than the left movement, the green supply, and a lot of responsibility when it comes to the government's financial affairs, and it also applies to my rural society, a lot more responsibility and a lot more responsibility than the candidates for this bill, and there I refer both to the forward party and to the Independence Party, and I intend to allow myself to be also a member of the United States. We've always been responsible, and while I speak with caution about such legalizing loans and commitments, I'm not speaking for irresponsible financial policy, far from it. Then there's the other thing that's such a big thought on the road that sounds awful good, I know it. Let us first take a course, then plan how to implement that policy, five years, three years, or how it is now. And we're primarily on policy here, and we're here to oversee the strategy as well, which means long-term goals. The decision - making process is then in abundance, and much more so, it is transferred to the Ministry. We heard about the past too. The chairman of the budget board, that the decision-making campaign for individual teams will be taken into the Ministry, and that will bring a lot of harm to the staff, which will now be saved because this is not going to cost. They were referred to as to how to apply themselves. I can't remember if it's in 28, 29, 30. g., something about which you will discuss the commitment to make changes to these programmes and to what was previously taken into account, and that is a huge projection and paper process that goes with them, which will cost you. We'll get it from the financial agency at the price of a baby. The annual cost is nearly half a billion, this will cost you. It's policy, planning, management and monitoring. There is a quarter of a billion. It is an account and a variety of reportings, 96 to 120 million. Then there's economic management and monitoring, 36◯48 million, annual information systems, 36◯48 million, estimate systems, 12◯48 million. Then there is a temporary cost, to or from half a billion. It is natural for us to look at the other numbers for a time and an investment at a time, but it is more prudent to look at them. Wouldn't it be good now to get some of this money in the Land Hospital business or to reduce the cost of patients seeking health care? I would have thought so. It's good to make good plans. It's good to set goals, but I have serious doubts about what is going on here. They're building a great pyramid from paper, and there's those who come up to cost a lot of money, which is perfectly obvious, as this bill shows. If we let our mind wander back over the budget talk here at the council, has it been so boring? It has often been difficult, and it has often been emotionally charged, and over what has it been emotionally charged? It has not usually been very emotional when we're talking about the big numbers, how many billion we're supposed to run down to health or education and then to the school level. It's not. That is when the reality becomes evident to us in the small things to take from this discussion, which the discussion is emotionally involved. For example, when discussing whether to evict young people over 26 years of age, out of high school, when we look at them on a budget bill that they exist to do so, the game becomes hot. And we know this during the last term when we were cutting down, when the staff at certain clinics, especially in the country, remembered it in the city of Rhines, remembered that in the city of Sadum, in Húsavík, made a chain of hands for their hospital. This was because of a discussion about the realities of their lives. It's all this work that's now being transferred into the Ministry. I understand that there are more than the members of the International Cash Fund who are rejoicing over their good student. Of course, there are many, too. They get more work done, increase power in themselves at the council's expense, and the council is so small that instead of trying to keep control and discussions, a special committee is appointed to administer this procedure. I also heard during the discussion here that men even imagined that this financial scheme would be expanded.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u82	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u83	Not from the chairman of the budget board, that's right, not from her side. But I heard during the discussion today that it was so impressed with this advice that was to take control of the council and to see that it is absolutely certain that we do not break the 7th floor. The bill on the payment of the state, because that's the natural issue. I forgot to figure it out earlier when I started to refer to the sustainable and discipline that this budget is to monitor that it is essentially 7. which deals with authorized government loans, that they should not normally exceed 30% of the gross domestic product. This is half as low as it happens in the European Union under Maastricht conditions. Maastricht terms turn to inflation, interest, debt and any other factor, where the debt is much higher than this. Not that I understand, and I reiterate the one more journey, that I am recommending a great debt of the state, I am not doing it. I'm simply saying that those times can come - and not just that there's some particular threat to society, but there may be times when we think it's wise to go into a lot of debt, e.g. for a new hospital. Then there will be the other temptation to take this into a private market where debt is hidden and that is the foul game that has been played many times in Britain. The worst were the kids under Tony Blair, probably the worst, even the grip was worrying about how far they went, but she is now returning to the old gear, the government that is now in Britain. In other words, we're going out on that road. I have to tell all of those who support this bill and think it's very good, and I'm going to start talking about the bill, how good it is, that it's all that's out of anything but 7 g's. Then there is reason to fight this bill with life and soul. I will vote against the bill, every law of it, and when it comes to a final vote, I will, of course, say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u84	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir I have a few questions for Ögmundur the son of Jónasson. First, what is more natural than the state's setting up laws to follow, the same laws as those of the rural communities that have been so working for? As far as I know, it's been going well. The rural communities have been on the verge of being within these boundaries, and I find it incredible if you can be so blind as to put laws on others that you cannot accept from work. In this law, there is a five - year period to respond, and I ask: Is it acceptable that indiscriminate politicians, perhaps in local governments, as experience has shown, can owe their community almost to killing so that nothing but bankruptcy can be avoided? Is it acceptable that there are so next generation and the next town government that has to deal with the problem? I'm not going to argue with what. A senator on these boundaries, whether they are high or low, can we not agree that if we are going to put these laws and rules above local governments, we should work for them ourselves?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u85	V.E.G. President. I explained the doubts I had about the local government law in spite of my responsibility and how to handle these matters. I explained how I felt about this doubt. I also noted that there are many laws in the country, not only the budget, but many other laws that the Council needs to see. Then I'm looking at the rights of patients, of equality, of the settlements, etc., that we need to look into. The question is, How would we start to discuss this subject? I was just arguing that this frame wasn't good and correct. Should we see that some wise politicians are in debt to their own communities or to the state without our efforts to build a foundation? I think that's why the communities and the state are more cautious than they used to be. It reflects a change of attitude in society, a greater caution when it comes to debt. We've watched how companies, banks, and other institutions in debt and in general are more cautious in society, and I've talked to them, and I'm a follower of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u86	A respectable president. Be careful when you're in debt for a moment, I can totally agree with that. Since it has been so long since the collapse, it is understandable that we have not completely forgotten it. But experience has shown that we don't need many kinder ones to forget this crash. I'm not talking about the next generation. You forget about the crash and forget it so that I wouldn't trust everyone to be as cautious as the people in this business right now. Regarding the legal obligation of fellow members to serve people, the sick, the elderly, and all, it is only the eternal battle of government and rural income. Of course, there is much to consider. Hv. A senator mentioned that rural society cannot build social apartments because it is culminating in debt. What is the experience of the rural communities who lived in a social apartment without having a management ground for it? I don't know that experience is that they've been put down, that problem has rested on them for years if not tens of years, and they still struggle with it. Then let me ask you what. A senator whether he would take away these laws on rural society so that politicians can only owe their own debts, as if they wanted, as if no one was tomorrow, as if they weren't going to sit in these chairs? By keeping the line a little bed, maybe more than it is here, five years' space to handle something, could we agree to have some boundaries both on the government and on the state?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u87	V.E.G. President. Only with the local government law, it was so, following criticism that, among other things, was found in this hall, that I ordered a committee that set down the rules of interpretation of these laws and the flexibility of the interpretation of these laws in order to reduce this crisis. Yes, I would have liked to have songs that wouldn't be with those roofs. But they're there, and they tried to make the best of it. There were some communities that made a huge debt to collapse. We've heard in the news how Smokeytown was counting on and on other rural areas. The reason for caution today is that our rural communities are burned by what used to be, and that is, of the mixed politicians who are part of the democracy; we should trust them and not need experts to beat us with whips to show reason. Now, with your country's rented apartment, it's a complicated discussion. Those rural communities that have done well in this regard, I mention Reykjavíkurburg, were able to do much better. Reykjavíkurborg runs a social apartment, which is a very good company, a very good institution, and needs to increase much more. There must be a lot more money to enter the community apartment system in Reykjavík, but I still mention it as a good business. It is also something that is a long - term good investment that rural society puts money in a social home.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u88	A respectable president. This discussion has been fine, and I'm glad to hear them express their thoughts and feelings. paritaprevir Jónasson's jealous attitude in this regard was not to be ignored, which may reflect the viewpoint of some people, although, fortunately, this conversation is not loud for the simple reason that there is only one defect in debt. They'd be fine if it wasn't for that one flaw, and it's that they have to be paid. We should have learned that by now. This is the city of Reykjavík, and I'm impressed. Councilmen to study the finances of Reykjavík. [[Take it up into the country, and it's part of the country somewhere else.]] I think it's the clearest example of that, despite all the possibilities to have a prosperous budget that lays the groundwork for a good service, you can screw everything up. I'm not going to go to the exact discussion here, but I'm afraid we need to discuss our money in this area because of the serious situation that has come up there. One reason is that humans have been able to move between humans. When I was in the mayor of my time, I took up that discussion, and we lost that discussion. Then you pointed out that they were moving debts from a city fund into the Power Institute. They were then moved back to some part of the city fund and now there's some very weak plans upstairs because the main fund is fired by bullshit losses, such a loss that you just don't believe it when you read it, and you're moving the debt over and over and over to Energy Institute. In the meantime, the interest the citizens need to pay builds up. I'm not gonna go technical on this. I'll celebrate the bill very much and join in with what. Councilmen from a budget board who have spoken here and thanked them for their cooperation. The matter has been in the hands of the council for quite a long time. On two occasions the committee has visited Sweden, and it was there because they have had a transnational partnership on public financial management. It doesn't matter who the politician is, it's a parapolitic community of responsibility in public finance. And when I first read it, I read it in notes from my ex-knuckle. The legal committee that went to Sweden, I have to admit that I couldn't believe it. We went there last winter and visited all the agencies involved in these machines, whether it was the Swedish Constitution, the budget office, the Ministry of finance, or the people who were in contact with the media, etc., and we also met employees in the Icelandic embassy. I asked all these parties if it was this way, if it could be true that it was a perfect agreement that the politicians or politicians who did not show the responsibility in government were just blown out of the way it is sometimes said, and it was confirmed that it was. It's not enough to accept this bill. If that's the case, then that means that all of us in this room agree on a particular basic prince, and not just here, but also in our community. This means that the next time a politician makes promises of financial beauty, whether it's in the government or in the state, he gets critical questions, not only from us at council but also from the media. This situation has not yet existed. The reason Sweden went to that job and changed the process - Sweden is not the only state, there are several countries that are exemplary in this regard - is that they had a bank crash as much as ours. True, we could have learned better from this experience, but I'm not going to take it here, but here came a social Ecstasy, Persson Göran, who had the exact experience of Swaziy and how they dealt with it and advised us, but unfortunately, we did much of what he said we shouldn't do. It cost us a lot of money, but it won't be traced here. It's a long-term thought. It's a long-term thought. This means that when we discuss public financial matters, e.g. in the spring when we discuss the financial program, we'll talk about it in a larger context and for a few years. Then, for example, we will discuss what the national dating will mean for us. We never talk about it here, but in Iceland, the number of people aged 67 and over will increase by 50% over the next ten years, which is enjoyable, and within a few years the largest single age group will be 60. This results in a great change in our community. This means that there will be an enormous increase in demand for services in the field of health. It's a big deal, and we never talk about it. Some small law to set up for a developing research organization has been inconspicuously covered here. I think this case has been spoken for more than 40 hours, but here we are very few discussing this matter, which is far bigger, more important, and more important to the country than any one small institution to the Ministry, which is extremely sensible to do. We have a program to get used to our routine and contribute to the longer - term attention of government funds because government matters concern all of us. Too much debt is very dangerous. For example, when the collapse of the bank occurred, the reason why we could work out was because we had paid off the debt of the state. Not the debt of a bunch, but the debt of state funds had been paid off. I wouldn't have offered that if we had been in the same place as the states people often talk about, like, some kind of heaven, then I'm talking about states in Western Europe that are committed around 100% of GDP, even above that. I wouldn't have invited you to do that if we had been in that position. I don't know how we should have earned it. In fact, I don't know how many of these EU nuclear states are going to work out of the position they are in right now. But this is the big thing, the long-term thought. The number two is that there will be discipline in public financial matters, that is the basis, that depends entirely on the way we do it. What does discipline in public finances mean? It simply means that institutions and agencies cannot oversee the budget, and it doesn't matter what the agency's name is. It doesn't matter whether it's a medical institution, law, observation facility, or anything. I want to believe that most of our government agencies are very useful, some of them are totally unnecessary, but I'm not going to discuss it here. The countries we want to say compare us with have the same problem. Now I'm just talking about the North, and a lot of my colleagues at council, huh? Senators, talk about the North countries like heaven, but I've been to the northern countries, and I can say that's not true. They have the same problems as the rest of mankind, and that will not change. But most of them, if not all, most of the bigger ones at least, put it ahead of us that the institutions of authority are not overreached. This does not mean that they do not have the same privileges that the world has. This will always be the case. We are always in the position that there is never enough money for health care, never. And in itself, there is no social, educational, or law enforcement issue. There won't be any minister in that seminary anywhere and at any point you can say: I have so much money that I just can't use them, I can't do any more. It's never gonna happen, it's just the nature of the lawsuits. It's important that we prioritize for basic services, that's my opinion, not everyone's, but that's not what I think, that if we are going to achieve a stability that is essential to improved quality of life, we must have discipline in public finances. It's just that simple. And to be disciplined in public financial matters, everyone must be involved in this way. Does this mean that we have stopped sharing? Means that's what we're talking about. Senators of the left green all of a sudden don't want more taxes, and we independents don't want to lower taxes? No, that doesn't mean that. Does this mean that we stop arguing about where the money should go? No, that doesn't mean that. We will continue to deal with political issues, but if we are going to receive discipline, which is essential to stability, which is the key to improving life - styles, we must be discipline in public finances. We must all agree, not only with the politicians, but also with the media and, of course, the common people. But the program is with the media, and I notice that no media is following these discussions, at least not here in the area. They often monitor matters here, but in any case, in any case, they always have smaller issues, bringing much news from these, but they don't do it in this giant case, and I have not been aware that they are very interested in this. If the media do not highlight the importance of this matter, we need to work very hard to get it out of the way because they have the means when discussing these matters. Now, however, I'm going to commend him. paritaprevir The count of Jónasson's son for one thing, and that doesn't happen every day. Hv. When a senator criticized a specific factor in this matter, it is expensive. You're absolutely right. paritaprevir My son, Jónasson. It's not working well enough. It's not enough for the Ministry to say, "It's obvious that we need to change our tactics, we need to get different people into the Ministry, but we're not going to save any money back. That's perfectly obvious. Some government agencies in Iceland are obviously very ill. You have always felt that way, but especially when you work at what you do. The budget that there is a tremendous weakness, especially in the budget, when it comes to financial, budgeting, follow-up, and monitoring. This means that if we are going to reach the goals of this bill, they have to change their work ethic. This isn't about us making higher donations to the Ministry, that doesn't mean that. There is a great weakness in another of this good case, which is being done very well by the Ministry of Management, mostly done very well, but there is a great weakness in the fact that there is no more work in a plan on saving money in the budget as well as in institutions. Unimproved by this cost assessment, there is no guarantee that we will achieve the result, but if we follow it exactly, we will put forth enormous amounts of tax on this bill and we will not see the benefits of it. It cannot be, it must not be. I'm not going to go on the subject of the bill. It's working on things that I don't want to belittle, but it's obvious that at the time it's done, and it's done well, and that's why we're dealing with relatively little things when it comes to it. Of course, it is not true that the insurance scheme, so in many countries, is taking our place. The role of monitoring is still more urgent in both of us. Legal committees, as in any case. The members of the council. Rather than discussing matters that are truly important but that are smaller, we should now talk about bigger matters, talking about matters ahead of time. We can call it smaller if we talk about the magnitude of the dollars and money, we don't stop talking about it, but what it means is that this is a device that makes us forced to do what we should do more, that is, in the big context. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann's son Pálsson's example shows that we have a large debt of a community - this is specifically referred to in Reykjavík, and we can also mention Hafnarfjörður in recent years - and the community has been in debt without much political discussion. But that is obvious, and everyone knows what we want to pay today is our children and even our grandchildren who will feel it. When we owe ourselves, we are in an orderly way reducing the standard of living for our children and grandchildren. It is totally unacceptable, and there are many countries that serve as a warning example. And not just countries, but big cities west of the ocean like that. which are simply bankrupt, and we certainly do have societies in Europe that can be pointed out, even Germany that is now experiencing an enormous change in dating. Germany will leave 80 million to 60 million in a relatively small number of years and they have 5.6% of GDP in pensions. Of course, the Mediterranean countries do not usually have anything less than France. No matter how you plan to deal with that situation, it will always be extremely difficult. Then, even strong countries are in great debt. It is a joy to see that it seems that we can take our debts down relatively quickly, but this year we are paying more interest than the total amount of donations made to the hospital and health insurance. A respectable president. I'm happy with this discussion, I'm happy with this work, I'm happy with this bill, but there's no point in having this thing used to change our work plans and our discussion of public finances. If that doesn't happen, there's not much work to be done. However, if this means that we will see a change in political discussions in Iceland regarding public finances, a change in practices that are planned into time, and long - term thinking and discipline is the rule, not the exception, then this case is not merely a revolution, but a thrilling news for a nation of Icelandic people.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u89	Mr. President. I don't think there's any difference between the fact that we want the expediting of public funds, whether it is a state or a country partner, but it's always a question of how we're going to cross the public financial framework that we want to control on how we spend the money we have at our disposal. There have been many sobering and thought - provoking points in the discussion that have been here today. I'm not on a budget board, and I haven't been in the work that's been done in the past month and even a year preparing a bill on public financial matters, so I'm getting into the situation differently and taking the big lines on what's going on here. True, a person has some questions, e.g. how this discipline went to five years every time, a series of lawsuits that I'd like to say has certainly been starving for far too long and too little money has been placed in the long run. How do they get out? It is also the widely divided society that exists today and the opportunities and opportunities we have as governments to make dramatic changes there, which could mean that we would have to owe ourselves some time with the goal that this debt will bring to the future generations and to the peoples of the country, to the nation's infrastructures, to the classes we haven't placed most of the money in the country, and to the other side of the country. Then I'd like to mention our health services, our education systems, and transportation, though there may be countless other items that fall within our welfare system, the ideals and services of the alchemists, the large number of dissociatives that exist between parts of the country, the differences in energy prices among the public in the country, the availability of a variety of services made by public citizens, and the number of different people living in the country, as well as between social groups. It is now said that we are using a highly disciplined financial government. But a man asks himself when we draw a line into the sand at this point, when we are back on the side of so many lawsuits for which the State is to bear responsibility and put it: Is it good to have a narrow frame under those circumstances? That's a big question to me on this whole matter. Like my other partners in the left green, we strongly agree that we need to take good care of the government's resources, and we are to make good use of the funds we have in a very progressive way and to provide good plans for each of these activities, as we suggest our new government will do for its terms. But I am deeply concerned that we are now putting ourselves all too narrow because it really needs to be dealt with in many areas of society. Debts are inaccessible, and somewhere it said: Payable debt is lost. But debt is not good. If dues at some point include building a strong health service, important transportation and infrastructure in the country, and settling between parts of the country in terms of public service and living, then this debt can be very good for future generations and for the generation that enjoys it and may temporarily owe itself more than it does for all. There is another matter with a debt that involves harsh and reckless handling of the government's resources, as has, unfortunately, more often than not been the case. It is taking unsolved measures, such as those of the past 20 years where funds have been turned out and south when things have gone wrong. They disappear like dew to the sun, and in reality they take very little advantage of the work they should have done, because they are late and the projects are badly planned and little plans are made for how they can make the most of their use of citizens. Such debt is bad. Hence, there is no way to settle debt as some of the evil, debt that can be of the good when projects are important and urgent, and to make good use of future generations. So I think we need to have more flexibility in the frames that are being suggested to make us inside. It's very important. There have been a number of things that have been introduced here, such as the urgent need to set up a financial rule for rural society. I agree with that, but it's not all that simple. There have also been some social apartments and problems, that the communities committed too much and entered the construction of social apartments. But I ask, " What caused that problem to arise? ' I believe that this problem arose because some decisions were made by the former governments that led to the development of major migrations from the region. As a result, rural communities were stuck with this facility, badly new, and had problems with it, lost income because of the evacuation, and became involved in the business. Many of these were due to the bad decisions of the former government, and I mention this discussion of the saying of the saying system with its disastrous consequences on many settlements. Therefore, the settlements were left in trouble, e.g. has a place in the social network. But if that home hadn't been built at the time, I think the rural communities today would be even more difficult than they have to provide housing for people who want to come to the countryside now and settle down there and either make a job or enter the available job. More often than not, it is a home that saves the items that will be saved, since housing is not being built in such places today. The situation is that if you build a home in any of the areas that do not fall under the active market, once the building is completed and you start paying real estate fees. The price will fall at about 30 or even 50%. This is the sad story facing people in many parts of the country. As a regional senator, I am concerned that such a rigid frame will influence the construction of a number of important projects in many parts of the country, where it has been observed over the years to carry out legal duties in various aspects of the structure of society. That's what worries me. If we were all in the same box and were equal to it, I wouldn't have the concern that I have for how this could have affected many who have fallen behind and on the wrongs that exist in the country. It has been established on such matters as the Management of the Secret Bank and the way they play together with the government's economy. It can be said that this will all affect the economy and the way we manage our economic situation. I have come to the conclusion of the Council Bank's decisions to support this growth stage because it may refer to the economic system in the capital area, but it does not apply to areas far and wide around the country, which are essentially like economic conditions. They are not in the same place, and there are no panels, such as those in the capital area, and that is why the Federal Bank's decisions do not apply there. There is no danger that there are any panels there because these high interest rates are even more challenging than in other areas as a result of remuneration. Of course, the present government is all over the economy during a period of expansion in the capital area. She lowers taxes and accepts all of this when she should have high income taxes, money taxes, and taxes from those who are actually getting some income. But that is why such actions by semiofficial parties can play in such a way that there are certain groups in society, certain parts of the land, trapped and hostage. It cannot be built up because it is so expensive and is in a straitjacket of some kind because its Western - capital system is the main focus of the Western European Union. All of this leads to the same, reducing power and ability, and it reduces the growth of these diseased areas to spit into the palms of the hands and build up because it is so expensive. If this is added to the above, it can result in a change in the size and size of the work that is not to be left on the other side of the country. It has recently been in the discussion to complete a photo-engineering area in the country that has not yet been photo-directed, and this government has done a lot of research on that subject and has announced that it is all being a failure and that in this year's budget there are about 300 million, reminding me, intended for the project. What, though, if these several percent of the country's cables were to be completed so that they could live in a fiber - optic system? That's 6 billion. With the continued hip at this party, it could turn out to be real - I don't have the calculator in my head at the moment - maybe 2050 or later. I feel that in this situation, we have to think about where we are with a number of lawsuits and where we want to do better now when the interests of the Kingdom are improving. Do we not have to give in some areas that we can agree on as a community, whether it is Lands Hospital, Health, Education, Transport, Infrastructures, or the ideal elderly and the desperate who are always a disgrace? Can we not balance our options before setting too narrow a financial frame? It has also been reported in this discussion that there is more power being introduced from the General Assembly, from the financiership into the Ministry. I think it's dangerous. There is not enough resistance, and not enough responsibility, I think, for officials as good as they are, are not allowed to be elected into the council or by the council, or by the Ministry, or by the Ministry, as any members of the council do. It is not always that their glasses are better than our generals' glasses, or that they have understanding and that their viewpoints extend to the ring that may be largely isolated from the capital area. These are my speculations in this matter, and I will continue to lie under the furs of that subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u90	V.E.G. President. Thank you. Rafney Magnúsdóttir Rafaeldóttir for her speech. I'd like to ask her a little more about the areas in which she dealt with the localities. In the 9th. The bill adds a greater part to a change that includes the development of a minister when it assesses long - term prospects, as well as an assessment of the likely impact of the survival, economic status, and commitment of public partners on developments in the country and particularly on the status of the scattered settlements. 14th degree. is added to a paragraph that reads as follows: During the four weeks following contributions from bill to budget, the Agency shall provide a financial committee of the General Commission on the impact of the bill on urban development in the country. There I feel that there are two ways in which I am trying to make sure that the community is considered a basis for the implementation of public funds, but of course the senator was also talking about the circumstances that the rural communities were tailored to. It is very serious when rural society cannot enter investments, and this also applies to rural areas in the capital area that are unable to enter internalinvestures, such as housing, due to debt. We in the United States have wondered, for example, whether an investment in housing should be avoided and provided that a good analysis of the need for housing has been provided. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agreed that it might be wise to do so?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u91	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I would think it might just be wise. The situation is that many societies are in grave trouble. In many ways, it has become self - destructive. They may not be well - off financially, but they want to try to draw people, and there may be something in the pipe. For example, I know of southern Western Europe, where salmon farms have been flourishing. Farmers don't put into investments because they out of financial order, but they know that individuals do not intend to do so until more business interests are done in those areas. Therefore, public members need to come to them, and it is known that they will return. I think this is one of the things that should be counted as a good debt. It can be bad economic growth and good economic growth; economic growth is not just economic growth; it can be positive in terms of what is behind it; or it can come about because of all too much personal consumption. So I think it would be wise to look at such things in order to be overlooked. I may find it better in the second answer than with the two articles that are supposed to be, I think, a process of trying to meet national concerns in these areas - I don't know if I can say "lag" - I don't give a lot of credit for all the reports that have come out of the country's problems.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u92	V.E.G. President. I won't tell you about these two articles. I can totally understand why. A senator, however, who is thus able to obtain such a diagnosis and thus produce pressure, if unfavourable, would create pressure. Whether this leads to change, however, we do not know, as the examples prove. But as for housing issues in rural society, I agree completely. Senator. It will be self-inflicted if there is no improvement in local housing, and on behalf of the local community, since the debt of the community cannot be increased, but it also inhibits much growth in the countryside. Part of the Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir housing proposal was to establish special housing programmes so that the rural communities would provide plans for the need for housing construction. I think it's urgent to make that happen. It would also have been needed if the rural areas around Reykjavík were to be reduced to an extreme degree without any demand for the location or type of housing being built. So this is both on both sides, to make sure that adequate housing is built and to prevent overproduction at the wrong locations. But it has to be that if your community is authorized to go past the debt, it is well established and on good analysis so that long - term economic problems are not being threatened. But I also wondered, " Why? ' Senator: Is it not reason to start another attempt to reduce the number and increase the number of rural areas?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u93	Mr. President. Of course, the arrangement for housing is a serious problem. This overwhelming was a real problem here in the capital area that never reached the country, but all the people paid for it. There were no strings on it, it was built and built into the infinite, although the need was not available unless most people had moved to the capital area. I'm following our efforts in our economic management to pay fast growth because interest costs us as a community, and we can use that money much more. I have often thought about what was in the past. Money frames like these - how would the government that has ruled over the last 20 years, how would the government's financial affairs, how they would manage their public finances, have fallen into this framework. It would be worth considering, and show us how this model would have been compatible with the governments of the candidates and the independents, with the appearance of occasional scenes. It would be very informative to see it. But I am determined that there are worse things to do than make a debt for a good job. Then I also think of all the structure established by earlier generations for us who live in this country today, that was a good debt. Much was done back then when it had to be done. We were going to pull ourselves together in the economy, and it was done. Our generation enjoys many of the work that the previous generations performed in our behalf.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u94	Madam President. We in the United States support this bill and we're glad it's done. I have to say, I don't feel that this case was one of the priorities of the previous government, even though it appears in one part of the bill to work on it began in 2011. However, the matter was set in motion. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, when he was the minister of finance, to try to prevent the average population from returning to the same horrors as the collapse of the financial system and the collapse of the Icelandic crown over government debt. When Steingrímur J. Sigfússon stopped being a minister of finance, he was shocked. paritaprevir Oddný new G. Harðardóttir daughter at that, then what. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir, who were both secretary of finance, followed the case firmly. V.E.G. So Bjarni Benediktsson's financial minister is the fourth person in the series involved in this bill, and I would have found it normal to be more polite to review the case in a committee party. Or as it does not appear there, when this matter was being prepared during the last term, the budgetary committee went to Sweden to study the terms of government funds. We visited many organizations there and came to understand how this system works. Thus, the bill presented here is a common bill of the entire council, expressing the desire of the Generals to explain and trust the objective of public funds. Hv. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir said that it was fun to set these standards on the activities of the first independent government and the forwarding party. There would certainly not have been room within this bill, which, hopefully, will be law. But I'd like to doubt that today's national financial policy is in line with the objective of this bill, for by the government of Sigmundur Davíð has adopted an old antiquated right control in Iceland that, when this is published in the economy, taxation has begun and fostering a wide range of intensification activities in the economy, resulting in overheating. Of course, then we face a crisis. The severity of the depressions varies, and in 2008 the most serious became the natural one. In addition to the tax reductions and destructions in Iceland's highlands, which followed the collapse of the CDC, the banks had also become privatized and delivered to friends of the Agency and the Independence Party who then played loose until the banks collapsed after being 10 times the gross domestic product of the Icelandic population. Now we have resumed on tax reductions, which in a normal year's trip means that when we get out of the loops of the state's income supply will not be sufficiently strong and strong to earn enough money for the normal activity of the State. And although I say that we in the United States agree with this bill, we completely disagree with more of the Generals when it comes to a government policy. We do not want to reduce the scope of the State Fund, for too little government funds cause a recession in public service. It festers the educational and health systems over a long period of time and works against the equation goals. It is important to try to achieve a balance of income and to reduce inequities in the administration of teas, but it is also measured in our access to important services, such as health care and education regardless of our economic status, in which we should make it our goal that the services at least and to be available to all, regardless of our economic situation, have been shown to be the best way to the health, which creates communities with which there is peace and less crime and people are more comfortable and are more comfortable as communities with good and more efficient well - quality services that promote people's desire to work, to show foreign research, and are more likely to create economic growth. Those in such a community are more afraid to take a risk by building a business, creating their own business because we know that if it goes wrong, we're caught by a safety network. Therefore, we would like to be equal if the wealth of government is more extensive than the right government is currently heading for. We also disagree with the tax policy, not only do we feel that it is self-sustaining from the right direction of the Sigmundur Davíð of Gunnlaugsson Guntil, but we want to hold on to the three tax steps introduced here after a collapse, for it pays people more than the tax paid as they make more money and the taxation is more righteous. Of course, tax taxes have the primary goal of earning money for a government fund. But there are other goals we would like to strive to achieve, as they would, to increase their income balance in the country. I felt it necessary to get into this because there will be a little bit of a misjudgment when the Independence Party and the forward party begin to talk about legal discipline. They are not very good at managing their economy even though they wanted to make it look like something else in history, but we do have examples that prove otherwise. But when Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir's government succeeded, and everything was in cold charcoal, there was a minister of finance. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, who showed exemplary courage and diligence in the government of government. He had to deal with a very difficult cut, but at the same time taxation changes were made in the long run, with the goal of ensuring that we do not have to cut even more and in time increase the equation. The results were immediately effective, and at this point an equal number is estimated to be greater than in Iceland. I wanted to make the financial council a subject. I am very happy that we are here to promote financial counsel, and I hope that we have a blessing to give it to impartial people who have a deep understanding of public finances but who do not walk in the interests of certain political parties. So I'm reviewing the role of the financial council is to evaluate whether financial and financial policies depend on the baseline value of 6. and conditions 7. The Council is to be made up of three stewards and a president. Each of them is to have a university degree and to submit a review to the Generals. In fact, it has been reduced to two weeks for the Council to receive the review and can include it in a discussion on a financial agenda. I suppose, then, that the financial Council will have the opportunity to study the current government budget of the Ministry, since two weeks are naturally relatively short in case of some serious wrongdoing. But I hope that we have the wisdom to choose this counsel with zeal and to have it impartially. When the financial council was introduced into Sweden, there was a lot of doubt and concern that there would be no neutrality. Lars Calmfors, a highly right - minded economist and respected in Sweden, was appointed to the financial council. I must say that I was very interested in his writings, and although I didn't always agree with him, he was a careful scholar. As chairman of that body, he immediately stated that it was not the right kind of government. It criticized what needed to be criticized without putting it in cover - up or shielding the government that was then their right government from being criticized for what the financial Council considered unwise in a financial program. Then it is with all the plans and assessments that they are human works and that are always the characters involved that influence the way they work. But we have the longest law to make sure that all that work is credible and above the category of political doubt. So I'm glad we get such financial advice, and I think it can develop the official financial discussion in Iceland and also help the media to use their surveillance role as a fourth cause for the financial management of all of us. I was wondering what. paritaprevir Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir on the settlement. Its party has turned up the committee's credit card, the speciality of my share, into a financial committee. That's where a representative of the Left Green made a financial committee, huh? paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, notes that in the definition of the sustainability of public funds, economic factors are largely regarded as a more economic factor than they would like to introduce social and environmental factors. I have to admit, I quite agree. A senator about that. Today, in the months that followed, all the nations of the world will meet in Paris to gather themselves in ways to save us from the destruction of mankind. I may not be going to tell mankind's destruction, but in recent decades we are bringing great woe for mankind, indiscriminately, from a industrial revolution, and especially in recent decades. This, of course, results in failure, but the consequences are disastrous. The objective was that global warming would not exceed two degrees, which is still a small reminder for us, for two degrees of warming will have a major impact on the prospects of building on earth's specific areas, on weather, on sea level, and on such things. But now it seems that we will not even be able to stay within those two degrees, although in Paris we should try to stop this disastrous trend. I think it's unnatural that we don't set that goal in our financial policy because it's so much interest, not just for us, but for future generations, and we don't have to go far ahead, because some of our children here will still be alive at the end of the 21st century and our grandchildren and other Icelanders and other nations will be here on earth and will have to deal with these consequences. It would be wish for us here at the General Assembly to look forward immediately to putting this into the laws and to work accordingly. The government's budget is a policy document with a major impact on the development of society, and in such initiatives we should have a goal for sustainable development from all three sides, the economic, social, and environmental factors. I would have liked to see such a change, and frankly, I don't know why it wasn't made. It might be a matter of reviewing whether the Council will no longer be in line when it comes to the fight against the climate. I'm glad that the greater part here is that this changing of the budgets could lead to a change in the law of Congress. I haven't really put myself in it yet, but I believe it's going to be a good job, so everything fits together. But then it says here, by permission of the President: So the debate over government budget is moving forward for several months. That is when the budget is published. Then I'll continue, with President's permission: This allows space to increase the share of other committees in considering the main lines of individual causes of acidification in connection with the national financial programme. I think it is absolutely necessary, because today it is the visit of professional committees to the understatement of budgeting bill, and it is, of course, a financial committee responsible for the financial bill and all that work. As the former chairman of the legal committee, I absolutely respect the labor change, and it's hard to find too many people there. But the Allied council holds the budget, and each of us sitting here is participating in that power. We on welfare committees, with half the Icelandic state budget below, no less or less, except the interest rate, we have very little access to these matters, and then I'm not talking about anything but getting proper information about financing into the lawsuits. So I believe that there is much more information to be provided to the Generals so that we can also look at evolution over the course of time, since it is very difficult today. I hope that a new budget and a national budget plan will help us to increase the understanding of the people of the state and make it easier for us to examine the historical development of budgets to various issues. Then I also hope that in that bill, there will be a index and a list of statements we've been calling for for years, but sometimes you think that the bill should be made that way that most people should not be able to understand. This, of course, is not to be the case when we are guided by transparency. I'm very happy if there's an improvement on the bill for the future, but I strongly object if it's not done properly. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u95	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator before the talk, who was not overly concerned about the subject, but perhaps only at the end. She was pretty strange, especially when it happened. A senator reviewed the history of economic government. Hv. A senator knows, fortunately, the debt of the State was paid down because of the collapse of the bank. And because of what? A senator came to my party, and I don't remember her party ever supporting the operation that debt was paid down. We could not have earned it, or at least not in the way we did, if that had been the case. Hv. A senator said that the right way to lower taxes was now adopted, and he reviewed how much taxes were raised in the last government. I wanted to ask you why. A senator: When is it time to lower taxes? Compared to what happened. A senator said that we should raise taxes when it's tough, but we shouldn't lower them when they're better. What is the time zone to reduce taxes? It would be nice to have it out. I've been here since 2003, and I've been watching politics a lot longer. And because it's being critical of the Independence Party - and that's why I understood the parish Party, I don't speak for him - for having dropped taxes by then. A senator in the United States, and I completely remember the Continent's priorities for the 2003 and 2007 elections. I was a member of a government with the United States. I don't remember one language in which the Conspiracy was on the brakes on expenses or what could be said was expanding. Well, maybe. A senator mentioned such an example? If I recall correctly, the Conspiracy was in a competition with the Independence Party, according to my own word, in promises of tax downs.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u96	V.E.G. President. You're right next door. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur - given Þór of Þórðarson that the United States has often spoken of the increase in government spending, we believe, and know that a large and powerful fund is the way to ensure a powerful public service available to all regardless of the economy. With the Independence Party economy, it's only historical, so this has been run out in good times. High - quality operations were carried out, such as Kärilla's surgery at the same time as the personal quality of the banks, which resulted in complete overheating of the banking system. At the same time, taxes were being reduced in a way that when government funds were down, a government fund had been destroyed, as there was no room for needed expenses unless there was a huge box of good things to be done. And about the fact that the first government had to raise taxes on a bad year's trip, that's exactly why. Of course, if tax - based changes are to be done, they should be adapted to counteracting economic rhythms. Then it can be, in the most extreme of all, when government funds are in good condition, that there is a chance to reduce taxes to speed up the economy. And then, when a good one has to hold on to the reins, it is necessary not to press any further pressure under the spell. But such luxury was not available for the last government, since the situation in the financial situation was that we needed to be calm all the years away from a huge debt collection. And we did it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u97	A respectable president. Hv. A senator was not criticizing the Independence Party, he was criticizing the United Nations. I got it. I got it. A senator to study the discussion on Kälkönnnna or campaign law. Then the chairman of the United States, the fine individual I respect, was not at the council when the decision was made, but there was no compromise, when it was taken through, where. A senator stood; of course, he shared in it in the city of Reykjavík, which we had to carry out as a member of the country. If you're talking about cholamus reactivation, then you may have a hemorrhage. A senator was not ashamed of the Independence Party. Or the privatization of the banks - I'll be glad to. A senator to study the comments of the then incumbent United States. When it came to paying taxes, the issue was not about whether taxes should be lowered. She stood about how it would be done, if I remember correctly. The United States thought they were a pack of taxes, so they said relief. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator, if he is going to be trustworthy in his criticism, should feel closer to talking about the Independence Party and the forward party. The independent party is not perfect, and we have made mistakes. I guess the main mistake was that we didn't hold enough of the government fees in the goods. But the Union certainly wasn't stopping us there, or at any point when it came to government spending. But there is a difference. A senator and me, and that's normal because we're different. I believe that people in general manage their own money better than politicians, so it's important that people have more between their hands and that we watch out for taxes. That's the difference. But, hey. A senator, perhaps unintentionally, did not criticize the Independence Party, did he? A senator was criticizing the Conspiracy. Hv. A senator can look it all up because it's all there is.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u98	Madam President. I was certainly criticizing the Independence Party. Hv. A senator can quote the terms or votes of the United States from that time, which was the government of Davíð the son of Oddsson, and later of Ásgrímsson the son of Ásgrim, who was responsible for this action and put into it. That's the way it is. Criticism belongs in the right place. When the United States went to a government with an independent party, the last key to paying taxes to the United States' demand and went out to raise the child's compensation, interest payments, rent insurance, and unemployment insurance were replaced rather than to reduce the taxes on high-payers. [[Up front.]] I understand well, and it's normal. paritaprevir The God - Guðlaugur Þórðarson wanted to come up here to the contrary when I criticized the independence of the Independence Party, since the Independence Party has always made it clear that he is the only one who can rule the country because of an amazing genius in economic management. The examples prove otherwise. Thus, after 18 years of government independence, the Icelandic national group defeated a major effort to ensure that the land would not fail. And what did the Independence Party do during that work while people fought to keep the country floated and at the same time ensure minimal success for people in this country? Then he stood on the sideline, criticized everything that could be criticized, caused trouble and trouble, and showed no willingness to take responsibility for any damage he caused to Icelandic society. And now he's back in his position to start his next adventure tour.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u99	Madam President. It would be nice to merely get involved in the verbal exchanges mentioned above. The senators of Sigríður the son Ingibjörg Ingadóttir and the Guðlaugur of Þór Þórðarson, but swift. A senator now walks out of the hall and obviously is not interested in paying more attention to this discussion, so I plan to spend most of my time on other things. But I'm going to mention two publications that can be read to them if they want to go a little deeper into this matter, the result of the Independence Party economy, and the long chapters of this republic's history in cooperation with the forward party. These are the two groups that, together or sometimes, have taken control of this country into place from the republic's establishment with far too few breaks between them. These sources are the report of the General Commission and the report with the bill here that speaks very strongly about the failures of the State Policy in recent years and decades, and actually embraces it, as I have already quoted. And everyone knows the results of the Allied Research Committee, which passed the death sentence on the economy and attributed the massive mismanagement of government in Iceland from the turn of the century until the collapse of virtually all mismanagement. It's just the result of the most thorough investigation and the assessment of the parties that I think we must be able to trust beyond most of the others who were chosen for the task of leading the General Research Committee. First, in my second speech, I'm going to look into the future only. Actually, I wasn't expecting to get back so soon because I was expecting a lot of discussions about this day and even longer and actually best to say, at least a half-full conference room when this big matter is going on here, but I might expect it to be something important. This has been a rather dramatic turn of events today, and the discussion has not been too extensive. In the 9th. The bill is a rather small article on the fact that Ministers should be less than once every three years submitted to the General Report evaluating the more likely development of community, employment and environmental factors and demographic changes to the next decades and their impact on recovery, financial status and commitments of public bodies. This is a great improvement as far as it goes. In this case, the idea of looking into the future and trying to provide some lines about the essential development of financial resources and public finance in the light of what is to be expected, e.g. has to do with demographic development in the country. Then we find 33 C.E. The same is true of each Ministry's obligations, as well as the long - term outlook on the field. This is far more important because this is where methodology should be transferred into a frame and the frames need to be based on a vision of the future of the relative exchange of government incomes to individual causes of acidification. In view of future demographic changes, it is readily available to address older or health issues. We all know the predictions of a double senior citizen in the next 15 to 25 years, and what that will likely mean for expenses in this area. This work must be very careful, for otherwise the objective of relative peace cannot be achieved with regard to the boundaries to be divided. It is in the nature of this method that health matters will need to increase their share in the financial affairs at the rate of the demographic change, and the frameworks of this category must then be built up into the future at the same time. But I'm afraid we're not quite prepared enough for this, not the country as it is, and much less the departments with limited ability to do this, at least as the situation is today. They would need to be greatly increased if they were to handle that assignment. I have proposed a matter of Congress to prepare for long - term national planning and some emergency planning. The senators bring it along with me. On the roof. 114 suggests a decision to prepare the long - term national budget and to encourage the development of the European Commission, Prime Minister, and financial secretary to place this aspect in a fixed costume and preparation because this is desperately lacking. I don't think there was any special development in this since I was dealing with these issues and I could see how badly we were placed in this regard, including Because we have no national interest agency, no economic agency that can do such work. This is not the place of Haguess as such, a statistical office. I don't talk about if you want to go over to this methodology, frame, and if you're trying to look into the future in a regular way, then you need to lay the groundwork on the fact that it's being done in a reasonable way and that it's not there today. Hence, the kind of work required by the synoptic proposals. Second, I'd like to mention integration with the sector's affairs and finances that are discussed in the bill, especially in Article 11. for communications and consultations between state and country. This is what I think is very important, and I continue to develop in the last terms during the last term, to increase the growth of the cooperation between the state and rural society in this respect, and to cover the public finances as a whole. It is to be a annual agreement with the State for the common objective of the government in the area of finance, which includes the promotion of public service and the income of rural society, as well as the division of state and rural unions every year, in the leadings of the development of a minister of financial policy and financial agenda on April 1, if I remember correctly. I have read in this article almost that we are moving to a dance arrangement for annual negotiations between the state and the community on these items. I'm happy because I think we're supposed to start seeing to a much greater degree the government's finances as a single unit. It does not matter to the people and to those enjoying the ministry whether it is granted by a state or by a rural society in itself. The results need to be comparable, and this should also reduce the risk that there will be failures between the state and the rural groups as we are looking up at the present time. Other than that, this case is primarily a work ethic during the next terms, and it will be in the hands of the government that will take control of Iceland during the next term to work together if there are no changes. I hope now that there will be another government, but the one here and because this will be the case in time, it would have been most desirable to believe that it would have been a solid solid solid solidarity. There is some agreement on the main points in it, and that is well, so the matter is settled and many are involved in it over the years. But I have to admit that I was disappointed that more of the legal committees were not prepared to arrive, e.g. to meet our left green view of nothing so important, yet very symbolic things such as taking into the regular work a precise and validated definition of what is meant by the sustainability of public funds, that it refers to the accepted definition of the sustainable concept, and looked to all aspects of sustainable development. I could say the same thing about 7. g., the strange alibi where the original bill, or initial draft of the Committee's work, was spoken of by 10%, but suddenly 25%, could be identified, without the approval of the Ministry of Economic Affairs to transfer to contracts with private citizens simply within the Ministry. Now they're backing it up into 15 with a change in proposal, but I believe it's a very strange statement to the sources of service agreements and other such items today, with the methodology that it is, of course, accepted by the secretary of finance. You're right next door. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur of Þórðarson said that this rule does not remove the political issue in economic matters or government matters at all. Even though there are 100% total agreements on this, there will continue to be potential differences of opinion and emphasis on how to deal with the problem, e.g. to cope with certain economic conditions. If difficulties arise, how can you deal with them by cuts or by income or by mixing? What should be the scope of the cohesion in the economy? [[The president calls.]] Of course, this does not solve any personal differences about him. In the years to come, some may try to hide their politics behind her victory over this case, so I disagree. [[The president calls.]] This is not to the left or to the right. Dishonesty and high government issues are not political in nature. Surely all of us agree on them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-26-41.u100	A respectable president. I come here to finish 2nd. on this important matter. I have listened to members of the council who have spoken up and would like to say that these discussions have been very objective and helpful and of great benefit to the matter. Some members of the council have suggested that, among other things, there is a need to consider strengthening the council. In my introduction, I mentioned that we may need to consider changing the terms of engagement because of this. If this bill becomes legal, then the budget will be twice a year, in the spring, and in the fall. When the law is passed, there must be a legal setting where the law can be observed, especially when it turns toward the council itself, as in this case. It is the wealthy obligation of the Council to make it their program to discuss these matters twice a year. I spoke of it when I mentioned earlier that then the council must be prepared to accept it. Then I'm talking about senators. It has often appeared this way during the council, and I'm not pulling out one terms, rather than another, that there's a big speech here, a filamentist, which will put such a national language into a minor education if the timing of this matter cannot be met. It's about the total financial frame of the state, so this may be the weakness that I see in this matter that turns on us members of Congress. I'm ready to take a look at this and I'm kind of up here to wish that this case would go back to where it came from. The legal committee following the discussion so that we members of the Committee can have a meeting of the tips that have been presented in these discussions. For example, there has been one small change in access to information that we will definitely consider, but we will discuss it on the committee. Regarding the other factor, how to get help into the budget when this comes, the basic requirement for all members of Congress is that the administration of the time has an opportunity and a chance to obtain all the information needed to make logical and professional conclusions. Then I can fully appreciate that while a political convention will be examined on this matter, it will be serious to establish a local body, a professional law firm that might also have the role of hosting highly skilled economists and accountants. A complete chapter of this legislation focuses on their role, so we must examine all of this very carefully. The issue is well prepared in that two aspects of government have been discussed. This began in 2011, so two different aspects of government have been involved. As we know, 2013 elections were elections, and new groups were in charge. V.E.G. Bjarni son of Benediktsson's financial minister took this case, adapted it, and moved it to the fall council immediately after the election and made it his own expression of harmony and harmony to them in the council to make this case a success. It should also be noted that the Ministry, the State's Reconnaissance, and the State's Budget have prepared to accept this law. Happily, the work is started some time ago, and there is high expectations. I remind you that this is a new set of laws on government finance that will replace 20 years of age in this area. It may be said that this is a system constitution and we senators to work on public financial matters. I am proud to have led this work for the past two and a half years, and I again remember that it is a pleasure to see what the discussion today was a matter of speech and harmony, so I am very hoping that this case will get a walk of much importance at the council. I also ask for the highest. The president will refer the case to a budgetary committee for further consideration before reaching the 3rd. and a vote, and that when you vote on it, it becomes a law.
