ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u1	V.E.G. President. I don't know why I'm here because last night I said why. paritaprevir Brá Konráðsdóttir for her bill on decommissioning the law on the orlof of the housewives. The bill was referred to the General and Education Committee, but these laws are addressed to the Department of Social Affairs and Housing. I'd like to ask the highest. A president of what evidence was there that the matter was not being sent to the welfare committee? I'd like to ask the highest, too. Before deciding where to go, the president of the Parliament's Office reviews it. This is simply a matter of breaking out the law, so it is a fairly decisive procedure. Then there may be bigger issues ahead, where it is most unfortunate to dismiss matters only where each person thinks it is suitable for each other.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u2	When referring to individual committees, it is tried to follow protocols regarding committees. The president himself has not examined this particular matter specifically but will now agree that it does not really depend on which minister is involved but depends on what subjects are being assigned to specific committees. The president will take a closer look at this matter in order to review it in a more materialistic way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u3	V.E.G. President. Because this article discusses how I referred to a case I made before a committee, it is proper to state that everyone was fully able to make comments about it yesterday. These are issues that I think are about equality and that are relevant to the General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u4	Mr. President. People can have opinions about where they should be. It has become rather a tiresome repetition here that cases are sent to places where political winds are thought to blow properly. I don't think that's the case at all. Hv. A senator has reasoned why she believes it belongs on a full-scale and educational committee. I just want to point out that it is very unfortunate to have no fixed limits on how this case is handled, that if the Senate conference office had a different opinion of the case it is over and even given a chance to vote on it. When given to committees, we are not always in the hall. This matter may be just as familiar with local politics or social affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u5	For this reason, the president wants to say that there are exceptions to the issue of unique issues. When making such a decision, the decision usually depends on the suggestion of the person in charge of the case. A meeting office reviews this and, of course, reviews projects that are subject to unique committees when deciding which subjects are referred to.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u6	A respectable president. I agree with what. Ingibjörg Ingadóttir Ingleunadóttir. Thanks to the highest degree. President for taking the case into consideration. Like me and the highest. In 2007, the president and a few other members of Congress will make the very adjustment to the terms of Congress. Before that, special votes were held after the first. in the presence of a majority of members of the Parliament, where they formally took their stand on the issue to be settled in, but since 2007 cases have gone by automatically. I think that because there are some viewpoints that can be the best at home, and they are capable of living on two or three committees, the president and the council themselves would be more likely to have a view when it is recommended, and if they are noncommunicators, these issues are taken into consideration and taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u7	The president would like to state that a council conference office and president have made comments about current ideas. This has been the case with the comment, and it has been handled almost without exception. The president wants to justify what he said in the past that there may be exceptions as to where to point a matter, but the president had not specifically studied the matter and therefore wanted to give himself empty to it. This includes no promise of a president's reaching a different conclusion, but this case was handled yesterday.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u8	To answer, Prime Minister, Minister of Health, Environment and Resource Minister, Foreign Minister, Minister of State and Education and Culture.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u9	A respectable president. Yesterday we were presented with a conclusion. paritaprevir Empresseur Níelsson's son, who had been committed by a government and surveillance committee, to investigate the accusations made regarding divorces between new and old banks. The conclusion is, in fact, that he did not consider himself to have benefited from fraud or fraud for the benefit of foreign demands, not to compromise with law. He points out that if an initial route had gone and the nation were unable to earn a currency to pay the published debts to the stocks, it would have been hundreds of billions worse, and as a result, the government would have risked the way that was originally intended to be significant. V.E.G. In this regard, the prime minister has taken this issue deeply and has told the Morning newspaper that the charges strongly indicate that people have gone very far to reverse a conclusion that had been much more favorable to the public for the sole purpose of pleasing bank requirements. V.E.G. The prime minister also said that it was at first glance to see how far people go, not just by overlooking the opportunity to work for the public, but by preventing a new opportunity - when even the FEC has been established into the bank that people go to the bottom of it, they have found ways of passing through the emergency law, said the Supreme Court. Prime Minister too. He was asked: " Are there ministers and public employees there? Yeah, that's what it looks like, said the highest. Prime Minister, who said that the council should be investigated, and he will see to it that he does so. In view of these big words, the highest. So in the last few weeks, I would like to ask the highest. When we have a report, the prime minister will take his position on the matter. paritaprevir Brubbur the Brynjar of Níelsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u10	A respectable president. I agree with what you think. paritaprevir Empresseur, Brynjar of Níelsson, that there is a basis for further investigation. There is a basis for examining these issues exactly as I have previously described the need for such a subject. I haven't claimed the law was broken in this context. On the other hand, I became very upset. scrutinizing and his fellow soldiers wanted to turn the issue into the question of lawbreakers very quickly or not because they didn't trust in the discussion of what this is really about, political decisions, wrong and harmful political decisions, decisions aimed at meeting the demands of the banks. There is no need to look to the data proposed by the son of Víglundur Þorsteinsson. It is enough to quote the report of a former financial minister on the restoration of banks, a report that was introduced here on the day before Easter holiday in 2011. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ As time went by from the fall of banks, the unhappy demands of the old banks, especially the foreign ones, grew. Their objective was to establish a one - sided plan, not to be kept in their viewpoints, so they would inevitably have to look to the authorities for justice. Although this view was not valid at the beginning of 2009, it was clear that changes would be made in the original programs for the restoration of banks. With this in mind, the government of February 2009 decided to set up formal negotiations between the new banks and the state as owners and creditors and bank demands. It describes the objective of the representatives of the State in these talks and says that it was accepting the demands of the banks so that they could be more comfortable with pleasures.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u11	A respectable president. It is the prime minister of Iceland who has claimed in a press interview that it is shocking that humans have prevented new opportunities and that humans have found ways to get past the emergency law. He also says that this was true of ministers and public employees. These are, of course, accusations that are common. V.E.G. Then the prime minister may try to go on and on and on and on in agreement with the demands. Again I remind you that there was then the money manager, the guide of his life, and the then financial minister, who, November 15, 2008, gave clear promises that prices would be made between the old and the new banks, a new price, that would employ reimburse and make clear promises that the full recovery of demands would be guaranteed. That's the facts. A respectable president. I think it's normal to ask for it at the highest. Prime Minister that he would further explain his point of compromise with law. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] How did they find ways to escape the distress? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u12	A respectable president. As I mentioned in the previous answer, I'm not saying that the law was broken. I'm claiming that humans have made wrong and harmful political decisions. Just as we candidates pointed out at the beginning of 2009 that there were opportunities that governments weren't using, and if they didn't use the opportunities, they would be throwing away a lot of money, valuables that could be used and should be used to meet the public in the country, debtors who now see that their debts were moved back to the banks with a significant discount, a dozen discount, as it has been confirmed, but not allowed to benefit from it. It is very strange in this whole case that it is now confirmed that there has been some conclusion that appeared to be available on the part of the FDA in February 2009. Why is this strange? For various reasons, yes, but especially because before election, indeed, the night before election, in 2009, the then minister of finance was not familiar with the price asked. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u13	A respectable president. I'm going to the highest level of my speech. Prime Minister as the leader of the government because of the recent discussions in the community regarding tax policy and tax research. We've talked a lot about buying data, but last night, there was talk of gaps in the tax law. I'd like to direct a question to the highest. The prime minister, in view of the large issue of justice. We live in a community where the public pays their taxes and duties, where small and medium-sized companies do the same, but it seems that there are some who use gaps in tax law to contribute less to the community, which is our common project to build up. I'd like to ask the highest. Especially was it that during the last session, a bill was referred to by the government. The Economic and Business Committee, the bill I've proposed for the so-called thin autofloc which is about the fact that companies with so-called thin autoflocation, are a high debt and a high proportion of their total funding comes from linked sources -- that is, it is, they refer to the interest of paying loans to maternal communities that are located in other countries where tax rates are more favourable. This is something that many countries of the world have been dealing with, OECD has pointed out that this is where the world's kingdoms need to conform their legislation. The same has been true in this country. This bill, I came forward and there. The Economic and Business Committee all signed that this was a very important and positive objective, this bill has to be legal and preferably at the 2014 fall, but some legal thing needs to be investigated on the part of the administration before it could become possible. Now I see that this matter is not in the government Constitution, although the case was referred to at the highest level. Governments. So I'd like to ask the highest. The prime minister as the foreman of the government whether he doesn't feel it's right that this case will be completed, and it's submitted here at this council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u14	A respectable president. I'm not going to discuss specific issues of a particular enterprise, but I don't have the basis for it. I'd like to make it clear, though, that I think I and what. A prosecuting would agree that it should be a policy to maximise the government's income of the activity being done here. But there are things to think about, among other things, because the government must not taxable companies to the point of making investments in Iceland. According to this, it is very important that the activities taking place here take place as much as possible to the community. However, it is inevitable to put this into context with a discussion that has taken place over the past few years regarding foreign investments, since we have noted that although foreign investments were important and desirable, and we contributed to it in an effort to promote it, it still has certain defects that could not be found in a domestic investment. When we've tried to point this out, we've been sometimes accused of closing the country, as ridiculous as it may seem, but one of the mistakes of foreign investment is that according to the nature of the case, a respectable president, and nothing can be put on it, wants the foreign investors to get their investment back, and that with interest and a much better interest than they could get from putting it on a bank book. In other words, foreign investments have characteristics of foreign borrowing. That should be kept in mind. That doesn't mean that foreign investment is bad, it just means that you have to take it into account. This is evident in the fact that foreign companies can borrow from their mothers, but they can, in fact, borrow from banks and reduce tax payments in the same way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u15	A respectable president. So I mean an answer to the highest. A mild - tempered minister, I want to understand that he agrees that it is very important to stop in these loopholes, that it is very important to stop at the windows of our tax system that make this business a profit to pay off associated associates, which, of course, is just one way to get him out of the country. I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister - he said that he did not want to express himself on unique matters, yet he did so in effect by saying that it was important to ensure a tax - free environment for a foreign investment that profit would come to the community - what he would think of this matter as being in the Ministry of finance. In view of the fact that I've spoken of a cross-politic agreement that it was a priority to create our tax system so that all of them contribute and have stopped in the windows. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u16	A respectable president. I may not be able to answer questions about the situation at the Ministry of finance, but I accept an interpretation. A senator of my words, at the most of all, about the importance of stopping into a gap, but with them in advance that we do not want to do so in the end of the country and prevent foreign investments. In other words, we'd like to have a tax environment that will encourage investment and maximise the benefits of society of structure taking place here. I want to reiterate what I already pointed out that companies can also obviously borrow in foreign banks and pay them off the loans to their banks and to reduce tax exchanges, so that foreign loans are not prevented by considering contact between motherhood and a daughter's partner. But to make a long story short, I think we're gonna take it easy. A senator will agree on the importance of maximising the tax pay of the state's funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u17	A respectable president. It looks like the highest. The prime minister has heard from someone other than me, Bruntier the son of Níelsson. In any case, we seem to have a very different understanding of what was his conclusion in the so - called Wazowski language. Perhaps that happened to you. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son ate meat in foreign lands and changed personality amongst the highest. Prime Minister heard him, and I heard him. I felt that he had come to the conclusion that it was impossible to agree with Víglundur's viewpoint and that there was no indication of fraud and deception at the restoration of banks. Then comes the top. The minister in the platform says that he agrees with the conclusion. A senator to investigate the matter further. As we know, Víglundur presented evidence that he gave true, broad conspiracy in which politicians, officials of counsel, and the SEC had committed a major legal offense in rebuilding banks after a collapse. This would have given the bank's swellingers their property at a price of decline. Those with some memory loss felt that they had heard that information before now. The prime minister reported this shocking news, they were very serious, and they needed study. The media today asks if there is a greater reason for doing so. The prime minister to apologize for the fact that he has given the charge to both wings because this brought such a serious accusation. V.E.G. Since prime minister seems to be here at the same hayhorn, you must ask: How does he feel he should further investigate the above charge? Where should this investigation be carried out? Is this, in my opinion, the highest? The prime minister's motive for a police investigation? Should special research committees be assigned to the council? I'd like to hear more about the ideals. Prime Minister in these matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u18	A respectable president. This is mostly a question that I answered earlier, and that's why it gets loud. A senator is largely able to answer the same question. Hv. paritaprevir Brises the Brynjar of Níelsson noted that he felt that even though he believed that, according to his own opinion, the law had not been broken. I reiterate what I said before, in my opinion, this case has not been primarily about it but, rather, the political decisions taken at the time that led to the space that led to meet the Icelandic public, by moving down people's debts or Icelandic companies to right their position, was not new. This has now paid off in congregations of over 300 billion dollars. The profit of new banks from making those decisions. How did this profit come to be at 300 billion dollars? Are you sure you want to remove this torrent? That the most significant part of it seems, though there is a reason to consider it in context of this, by improving the evaluation of property that had been transferred to the new banks with a significant discount, just as we candidates pointed out at the beginning of 2009 when opportunities arose, and not just opportunities, as I mentioned earlier, but absolutely justified the need to allow the public to have some form of the writing that had taken place on the public debt in Iceland. I agree with what. paritaprevir The Brynjar of the son of Níelsson is, indeed, a reason to continue considering this matter. I also agree with caution. paritaprevir Empresseur Níelsson's son regarding criminal claims, although lawyers seem to be able to discern this in terms of what has been read in the media and in the Web media. The political decisions and their consequences, when they were to know better, are certainly something that would give us further consideration.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u19	A respectable president. Now it often happens to the highest. The prime minister to be misunderstood in the so - called discussion, so it is very important that we be on the same page in this regard and know what we are talking about. I read the conclusions. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son made it possible for him to cross the law, see if any adjustments were needed, explain things, etc. I didn't hear any better, at least. earlier in the discussion than to the highest. One prime minister felt that this matter had to be investigated specifically. Of course, it is a very different matter to cross the legal environment and see if it can be improved. That's what we do here from day to day. It's the highest. The prime minister of making a special examination of this matter is out of the question of crossing the code of laws?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u20	A respectable president. I'm not offering research in terms of the tests carried out or proclaimed by the last government and should include punishing men for political decisions. I'm just talking about learning from experience, making it clear that there was a mistake, so you can work differently if you have a similar situation later. It must also be not just justified but important. The senator, that in the case of so much interest -- it's already in place and it doesn't need an investigation to do so, can only understand the report of a former financial minister as mentioned earlier - it must be a reason to evaluate the decisions that are now translated, based on the payment of the situation as it is today, that the new ones have benefited about about 300 billion since they were established in this way, but the common people have not received their correction except because this government did not give up to achieve that justice. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u21	Mr. President. I'm getting phone calls these days and e-mails from concerned people who are faced with the fact that they haven't been finally determined on the calculations of the correction that the government started. Now the delay of a forced sale is due here in the fall, the seventh case of the council, on March 3rd. As made clear in the Committee it was estimated that this calculation had arrived at the end of September and that it would take some time, until March 1 to complete everything, if there were any question, etc. If the calculations were completed by the end of September, the procedure would end on March 1. Now the calculations were not completed until November 11th, and still there are people who have not been released but who were started off to stop forced sales at the highest level. Then, Minister of the Interior, Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, went in over a year ago when she stopped all forced sales. This was because people applied for correction and could possibly restore their finances once they had received it. This was the goal of the highest. The Minister of the Interior asked for a 1st agent. On the case this fall, with President's permission: ▪ That is why it is part of the operation that draws people to the correction and opportunities to review their finances on the basis of it. That was the first thing I wanted to do. This was part of a synonym that the prime minister recommended at the beginning of this council. What was supposed to be guaranteed by this law has not yet been established, and what I want to ask a minister is that it can't be postponed for one, two months, as the Ministry considers, to complete this with dignity.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u22	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry. That's exactly what he says, it's taken longer than you expected to calculate these things. It is also so that those who have been calculated have a time for fear, and then they too will be able to sue the outcome so that all of this takes time. You could say it took longer than we expected, I'll say it with a bang. A senator, and now, of course, the time is short. We have entered February, and March 1st is right around the corner. This is one of the things I'm considering these days, and I'm aware of the magnitude of the size and how many are the exact ones in this position, or how likely it will be at the particular time left. There's something we're going over at the Ministry these days. If there was a time for us to intervene, we would do it quickly, it is a simple law, and I assume that it would be accepted in the council if necessary. I haven't come to any conclusion about it yet, but this is still at the point that we are realizing what the situation is.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u23	Mr. President. Then all I'd like to do is encourage the Minister of the Interior to take matters more seriously. She's been showing since she's been here for the council that she's a bit tough. When they come on to her table and finish, she'll walk into it. The sooner, the better. People are very concerned about their positions, not strangely, this is the most expensive property people have, their home, and this could really keep them from losing their property to third party because the deadlines that have been granted have not been made on an obligatory sale directly, they were not last. At first, this was the case, and then it was a postponement of the final delivery. If this delay expires without being extended and people haven't fully written down what they get out of correction, they can lose their home for years, and it is irreversible if they lose their home to a third party. The last few weeks simply meant that losing it was on the final meters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u24	A respectable president. I don't have much to add to what I said before, but I'd like to thank the captain for bringing it up and keeping men on the subject. The correction is of utmost importance and has been a factor that the government has brought on.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u25	A respectable president. Before the election, the highest. Ministers need to increase economic growth, decrease growth, reach hundreds of billions of foreign demands, and rid their currency. Now that the season has been set, economic growth has been reduced, stress growth is higher than ever since failure, there has been no success in the fight with the demands and currency capitals as firm as they were at elections. That is why it is inevitable to ask the highest question. Prime Minister on the explanation of this failure of the government in all major matters of the nation's economy. Will he not admit that the policy of government is wrong, that it has been wrong to lower taxes on the wealthiest but to increase the consumption taxes on the public, that it is wrong for the government not to have tried to secure long - term agreements on the labour market, but to have put everything in place for the labour market that is now associated with the uncertainty and with the delay of investments and progress in the nation's economy? Has the extending of the government's efforts to subtract the Member States's application to the European Union not also had negative effects? Has not the incontrovertible presentation of prime minister and financial minister of foreign demands and our objective in the disposal of currency have seriously corrupted the case, where another declares that it is unavoidable to take risks of emissions while prime ministers say that there can be no risk of living in this country? As long as the prime minister says one loss, when prime minister says that when he says that in January there will be a step in this matter, the minister of finance Lee send Buchheit a discussion with the separation control of the swelling workers immediately on the next loss, saying that when the prime minister reports that in January he will be step - up in the matter, the minister of finance will be told in July and so on the streets. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u26	A respectable president. It's like it's always a night. A senator begins to scream more and less everything he said was wrong. But I thank you for the opportunity to discuss the success of the government in the economy because it is considerable and more than has been seen in such a short time, at least. for a very long time. Economic growth in Iceland since the start of a new government has been by far the most widely regarded European countries, and it will likely be the greatest in Europe next year. We might even overtake Norway in this regard. Since the start of a new government, there have been between 6 and 7 of you. New years in Iceland Unemployment is down to about 3%. Inflation has not been so low for as long as decades. On the other hand, with regard to the Maturity of the National Bank, there will be some difficulty. A senator to direct inquiries to that institution. The tax system changes made by the government have been designed specifically to match the interests of the four lowest earners, as noted, and were supported by a clear calculation of the financial Commission's data through a financial bill. In terms of a conflicting presentation, I don't know what to do with it. A senator is appropriate. His statements were also wrong. Buchheit Buuchale is thus not in negotiations with demands, and I do not know the highest level of agreements. The minister of finance claimed that this was so. Overall, discouragement can occur. A senator allowed himself to be glad that the picture he tried to paint earlier is not true.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u27	A respectable president. When that government began in 2013, there was an economic growth of more than 3%. The economy gives 0.7% a year, but the Council Bank gives 2%, anyway, less economic growth than when the government took over. The rate of growth is more than 5% in less than 1% of the inflation rate. Realistic growth has not been the same in the country since collapse. Two main focus of the election's prime minister was to increase the cake and lower the interest rate, but he does so in the opposite direction. If he's so convinced that it's all so good and that here, falling butter of every straw, there's something to stop him, then the highest. Prime Minister, to agree with the requirements of the 35th Work Programme Union. K. a raise to the lowest? Since it works so well as the prime minister claims to be here, are they not fully justified and normal?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u28	A respectable president. It's like it's always a night. A senator asks me questions most of the times in which he corrects the claim. Senator. He compared economic growth in 2014 with economic growth in 2013 and attributed the last government to economic growth in 2013. However, looking at that year clearly shows that after a collapse, economic growth broke out after a new government began in 2013 and the effects of a new government there became evident in tables of economic development. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] Besides, it's a w. A senator continues to give me some kind of growth policy and that I direct the Federal Institutes of Growth. Hv. A senator may be able to understand the laws by which the Councilman operates. There he would see that I have no access to the bank's decisions on steering growth. However, with regard to the job market position and the opportunity to increase money still - I forgot to mention it before, a respectable president, that commercial wealth in Iceland rarely, if ever, has increased as rapidly as after this government began. Indeed, there are opportunities to keep on increasing this power of riches. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] Now, at last after resolution, even the decline of the last terms, employees can expect to continue to earn money. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Diversity?]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u29	Mr. President. This is a vote for a panorama of universal legislation on the wills to new investors in Iceland based on the bill on the 2010 Convention on Involvement. The aim is to stimulate and promote new investors in the country. I support the whole issue, but it reminds me that my employer is the key figure in the fact that at the same time this bill does not exist for a bill that legally validates public events that contribute to new investing projects in my innovations and wands that do not fall under these legislation. I'm the highest. A professional minister to speed up that work and finish it as soon as possible so we can handle it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u30	A respectable president. This bill that we now vote for has been set aside by a group of service proposals for the change in house warming subsidies. These suggestions were presented in the government and in what way. In early 2012, a legal committee and a business committee were involved, and they had a cross - political harmony. Here, however, it is a process to add more spells to home and normal urban areas, apparently solely to protect the industry from sharing in the vital community - related work of equalizing electricity prices in the country and from house - to - house expenses. The union cannot support this way, for it is unfair, and the bill can be taken all too slowly to level the cost of house warming. A respectable president. We will support adjustments made from 2 smaller objects but will sit by the payment of others.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u31	Mr. President. We, in the lower part of the employment network, suggest a change in this matter, that the big business, the industry, and those not within the network are involved in equal distribution of electricity and subsidies on the average house - to - house expenses. The environmental and resource tax is now laid on electricity and hot water. This taxation of the big business expires at the next year, and we suggest that the tax will be extended and used to equal the cost of transporting electricity and subsidies on house - to - house expenses. Thus, the big corporations will also share in the social responsibility to level the distribution of electricity and house - to - house expenses in the country and to do so right next year that it will be fully equal to the level of what we propose here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u32	A respectable president. This bill takes the first out of two steps to achieve the decades of activities that have been discussed over the decades in the council, to balance the costs of electricity distribution between rural and urban areas, and to balance house - to - house expenses for those living in cold areas. This is the first step. The distribution costs are reaching between users in the dispersible hosts. It is not a trader for the distribution system. The plant pays its dues elsewhere. The adjustment of the memory of the part to extend the electricity tax set up on the last government temporarily is not the route here. Had the intention of the last government been to have that tax permanently, it would have had a fine opportunity to do so for four years.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u33	A respectable president. This is a suggestion to continue paying, which is today on the big business in the country. Instead, they want the highest. Industrial Minister will add a new specific urban tax, which will result in a much higher number of homes in the country and normal companies. This is another new tax from this highest tax. Minister here at the spring council. I thought the tax system was complicated enough, even though the government would not be able to justify and sanctify new taxes in order to complicate the tax system in order to achieve as much money as it does here. It is incomprehensible why homes in the country and companies are expected to pay the account that the industry has paid so far.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u34	Mr. President. Here, as noted, the industry is involved in the social work of smoothing the country's house - to - house expenses and sharing in subsidies for the distribution of electricity. If this is not to be approved, we will see that energy prices are increasing in many parts of the country. Is that the meaning of a greater part of the council? It will increase energy prices in such places as Ólafsvík and Western countries and in less industrial companies around the country that uses high electricity in telecommunications. Have we not talked about trying to balance energy prices and, in fact, getting it down as quickly as possible? By keeping it only within the diffuse range, we are not doing so. Here we suggest that the industry participates in this equation, and so we can do it quickly and quickly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u35	Mr. President. The advantage of going in the way the smaller part suggests is that by taking energy, electricity, or hot water to house - heating factors in the equation. It is not just superpower users that contribute to their share but also the much more part of the country that enjoys their houses with cheap, hot water. I think that's the best and most reasonable arrangement I've ever had. This is the strong form of income that can be nearly halved to the current schedule. Is it not enough to be able to bring the big business the happy message from 2016 to the next, or so? I believe that both materially and also from these general views are so obvious that this is a better way and more reasonable than putting the entire equation and its weight on people who use electricity in urban areas. There's a much narrower target group to back up this equation and there's nothing but the will in my opinion. [[The president calls.]] But obviously, a particular party is not to be breathed by the present government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u36	A respectable president. Smokeytown has a lot of financial problems. Based on data collected in KPMG, there was a sustained growth in 20023/4/2014. Only in 2010 did the business produce a positive result. At the same time, taxes were very low and much lower than those in control groups and debts were above thresholds all the time. The city's debt ratio is now about 250 percent while the country government law standard is 10%. Smokeytown is the largest rural society in the country, and the town's operating cost has grown greatly in recent years. A new town government in charge after the last district election has proposed a plan called Soccer and aims to get the town's business to a reasonable degree. The plan will reach the next eight years. The local financial situation calls for many difficult decisions that concern the inhabitants of town and its employees. The plan allows for increases in income in the form of higher answers and real estate bills, a total of about 455 billion. K., and operating management by 500 million. K. This year for the whole season. Less investments are also expected and the B-part activities meet maximum levels. In view of the town's work history, the question will be, What responsibility does the local surveillance committee place? Clearly, plans submitted to the committee by the former town government were far from that in line with the results of annual accounts. The local people will now experience the consequences of the failure to address the problems that had been raised. The local rulers did not take action to stop these bad developments. Rather, they gave more to them than to the rest. The surveillance committee does not appear to have made a clear enough demand for a changed operation. Unemployment has been high in Southnes since the middle of 2008, and in March 2011 unemployment was 14.5% during the whole country's 8.6%. We now have about 5% unemployment in the region, a whole country with a ratio of more than 3%. So there is still unemployment in the area, with the largest in the country. The decrease in unemployment rates can be partly due to a reimbursement period reduced to three years at 2012/2013 after a temporary extension to four years, especially as a result of a long - term lack of work on the Southnes. The financial support of rural society has increased substantially since collapse, and many people have been able to cope with the bad consequences of long - term inefficiency. On decision at the highest. Governments for further shortening the period of improvement by six months, along with cuttings for employment recovery have continued to increase the problem. It is estimated that with this decision, there will be an increase of 70 million in the financial support of the city of Rhines. K. This year. Research shows that many South American children live in poverty and a greater proportion than in the whole country. Indeed, it is reasonable to assume that the financial situation of the city of Rhines, where some 14,500 people live, is affected by the service of children. Most difficult of all, they can be found in places where provisions are low. The proportion of legal households in the country may be high on the Southnes, while 17% of the population over 18 years of age are severely misunderstood. About 40% of the apartments owned by an apartment loan fund are on Southnes. All the majority of their possessions remain desolate. Since 2005 to 2009, there has been a growing problem in the town of Smokejanes. When the largest rural society in South Australia suffers so much economic hardship, it weakens the neighboring settlements. There is a need to work on developing a business life and community in the South, and there must be cooperation between human investment schemes, the necessary financial infrastructure and the best way to strengthen its aspects, such as children's interests, education, culture, innovation, employment and social infrastructure, to support the plans of a new town government in Smokeytown. Recently, the highest. Minister of the state's office of the state's grant for execution at the Helgi Harbor. The arrival of the State to this project is sensitive to 180 million. K. and was strong in action. Another important thing to consider is that the state has a lot of money on Ásb bridge where the Army used to be and has a discount on property taxes because of the possessions left empty, the state does not pay real estate taxes and takes the discount about 90 million. K. In a year, which Smokeytown gives it to the state. I'd like to ask the highest. The Minister of State whether it feels that such projects need to be looked at to to strengthen the town of Smokenes, while at the same time the region of the Southnes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u37	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you for saying something, okay? paritaprevir Adolescent G. Harðardóttir daughter, for calling out for this discussion on the financial affairs of rural society, and in particular here discussing the major financial problem facing Smokey Town and the actions taken by the town government to manage the business in order to fulfill the duties of the government. In general, I'd like to say about the financial affairs of rural society that they have evolved to a better degree in later years. The economic breakdown was as difficult as most other societies in society, and they have had to deal with the need to reorganize their activities and priorities. Since rural communities are at different levels, the project has been different from that of one rural group to another, and it has been difficult to coordinate the situation between rural society at local level. The debt of society has generally declined. I mention in terms of the 2008◯2013 season, a 30 percent decrease in rural debt was achieved, with an average share ratio of 117% due to the end of 2013. The debt rate of kits in Part A and Part B was reduced to a mean of 126% below the 150% reference protocol we know at the end of 2013. I think it's nice to have this general introduction to this situation we're dealing with in Smokeytown. However, in particular, in regard to the financial situation of the city of Smokenes, they have been discussed for a long time with a financial organisation like that. The phraseer could and the committee has repeatedly expressed concern over the situation's situation. According to its 2013 annual accounts, debt and commitment in proportion to total income were all too high, but the 2013 debt criteria were 255%. In April 2014, the town's community government decided to make an independent assessment of the town's finances, followed by a management programme. This is a dual action, an increase in taxes and a decrease in operating costs, and a first estimate of 900 billion. K. Procedural management. At the same time, the review of the former lead-in plan of the community, which made it clear that it would not be successful. In view of the 2013 Court's results and 2014 projections, the Commission further directed to the local authorities that an agreement between the town of Rhines and the local secretary for financial matters should be made in line with 83rd. Substitute government law. On November 18, the Soviet government adopted its meeting to request such an agreement, and it was signed on December 30, as we know. With this agreement and that the firmness of the government's wishes allowed Ministers to be pressured out on the current year. Sadly, this is not the first time we have to apply it. We had to, too, because of Eelphyness's community, the only community society that has particularly flaunted their finances to a monitoring committee, and one because of the Bolungarvík community. When discussing the financial problems of Smokeytown, it must be borne in mind that the community has built up a great deal in the hope that there would be great opportunities for the future. In a sense, the town invested in hopes that the opportunity would be large, and that is, in part, the problem of society today. As a result, investments have become very difficult for the countryside. Not to be overlooked, however, is the fact that the southern community has faced many other challenges that I think people may not have fully realized how wonderful they were. Then, in particular, I'm talking about when the army disappeared from the Cheflavík airport and the commercialities he provided for the Southnes. It may take some time and has certainly taken time for Smokejanestown to process it. As the premise mentioned, and I think it is very important to remember, unemployment has been very high in Southnes, unfortunately, compared with other parts of the country, which, of course, have played a significant part in the financial affairs of the rural society. With the questions of a saying, I think it's quite clear that very many things have to be done to get rid of its financial problems. In the area of the State Department, we and the review board are dealing with what we can do to reduce the debt of the local community, although this is the case with an increase in the population budget. Of course, it is quite clear that in order for some significant change in the delivery of Smokeytown, further opportunities for employment are needed. Hv. An apocalyptic specifically mentioned other factors that can, in fact, be more based on real estate, are they not? [[The president calls.]] Also, this is about the harbor, which, in part, comes into my table. [[The president calls.]] Well, then, I feel that to deal with the problems of Smokejanestown, it takes so much more to come than to look at my Ministry, we have to look many more. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u38	V.E.G. President. The lot of operators of Smokeytown has not always been easy, whether former or present managers. Modern - day rulers have been in the grip of a serious debt problem. In addition, former managers had to cope with the consequences of the collapse, as are all of us, and in this regard, military elimination has been mentioned. But the problem has not been the only one outside. He's also been self-important and political, the same type as the one who's premeditated in the psychological life of the Iceland Business Council so thoroughly that occasionally we're reminded that it is. Today, last week, countries and rural communities were encouraged to sell their possessions for 800 billion. Personalisation was also encouraged, particularly in the energy sector. That is exactly what the city authorities did in the city of Rhinesville. They sold their possessions without laying down the proceeds for later, as in a famous example from Denmark, the Farum Company, sold their assets and then rented them away with a good price. That's one of the problems. Then everyone knows the tragic history of the private development of Southnes'heat system, which began in 2007 when 29% of the items were sold to Geysir Green Energy. Then, in 2009, not all evil then, were tried to turn things back, but the Geysar of Green Energy, now in bankruptcy of 24.5 billion dollars, most of the property and Magma, came into it. [[The president calls.]] It is once again being encouraged to continue into the swamp according to the old formula of Iceland's Business Council. [[The president calls.]] This is an example that all of us can learn from, not just Smokers. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u39	V.E.G. President. I thank the advocate for this discussion, even though it is not very joyful. The services that rural society is responsible for giving its citizens legal laws are of utmost importance to them, such as child protection, services to disabled people, and services to middle school and elementary school. All of this has a profound effect on the quality of life and on opportunities in life. A good basic education can have the highest opportunity for further education and employment. But all that service depends on the existence of enough money. Companys are in control of their own affairs, but the Ministry of State is expected to observe that they follow various procedures regarding services and performance. There is a government surveillance committee to monitor the financial management of rural society. This should not be minimized the responsibility that local authorities hold on to the business of their fellow rural partners, certainly not, that is closer, but it is most reprehensible when they use public funds that are entrusted to them. It is also very important that the government's financial partnerships work well. This monitoring is designed to protect very important interests, especially those in the community. If needed, we must make appropriate adjustments in the laws and regulations to make them work well. We are also to learn from the subject under consideration, as noted in the previous article. paritaprevir A hundred Jónasson's son before that. However, we must also remember that citizens in the city of Rhines are not doers of the case but are chief users of endurance. They suffer the most evil decisions the politicians made that they trusted and that the surveillance system for which it was not going to work, as said in a proverb, sharply. paritaprevir For many years in Smokejanestown, a Oddný Harðardóttir, the financial situation was negative without anything being done.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u40	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir A Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter, for calling for this discussion on the financial affairs of rural society. Yet, I would like to wonder if the issues of the individual community should be addressed in this discussion, but certainly the situation is serious. Since the debt and commitment of the community have been far too high compared to the proportion of total income, the local city's topic has long been discussed. With the arrival of the new government song at the beginning of 2012, the threshold not to exceed a debt ratio of 150% was set. By the hearing of the law, there was a debt ratio of 21 companies over that bound. But it is safe to say that as a whole the financial community was developing to a better degree from that time, since by the end of 2013 11 societies were below this limit, and there are probably more of them now. The box set on the basis of the provisional principle of the law required that the rural administration be established in order to adjust the debt status of the new financial regulations within ten years of the legal execution of the law. The overall success clearly seen in rural accounts shows that rural authorities generally work with a great deal of responsibility and determination to achieve the desired result, but their assignments and challenges are certainly very different. Indeed, rural governments are responsible for their own finances. Each government must stand by its actions. However, there are regulations and guard members of local government laws that should help keep one out of trouble. The role of the surveillance committee is general monitoring that the financial and financial administration of rural society is in accordance with the laws and regulations. Already a few rural communities, which had serious financial problems, have achieved good results and improved their positions by means of targeted measures that have been cooperated with the review board and with the establishment of the SEC. So it has been found that taking time action can be successful. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u41	Mr. President. What I find interesting in this discussion is that the State is to monitor the communities and their financial status. This is especially understandable if we look to the Constitution, since according to page 76. Her condition, without welfare, is designed to ensure the well - being of her family. Farmers have issues that involve the education of children and their well - being. The Constitution says, by permission of the President: The law of protection and care required by children should be ensured. I remember once studying the role of child - protection authorities in the other regions of the country. There were certain legal factors to be there, but they were not given because there was not enough money to do so. I don't know if it's part of the community or the government's role, but it's clearly so that if it comes to public knowledge that, for example, the welfare of children and there's no money, it's not done. I spoke to the head of the Children's Institute of Child Welfare in my day and considered this matter. It would have to be very comfortable when the basics mentioned in the Constitution are neglected because of financial difficulties in rural society. But it wouldn't be the highest. The minister of the State or the government to monitor it and find out what the situation will be like? I think it's very important to get involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u42	A respectable president. I'd like to thank you for this discussion about the situation in Smokeytown. It is commendable in the way the town government has handled this situation, and unfortunately it is, so the inhabitants of the city of Rhines will have to bear additional burdens because of these past sins. It has been a pleasure to see that the town government has held its population repeatedly, has done everything possible to keep its inhabitants informed, and has brought them into town on this difficult task because there is always a limit to how far it can go to make public taxpayers bear the burden of past mistakes. The last thing we see in Greece and the situation there. There is only a limit to what the democracies make possible to impose an ordinary taxpayer. There we must ask that the Kingdom also be reasonable and reasonable. That is why it is so important to see how we could get into such a terrible situation. It is inevitable to think that in recent years dreamy investment plans have been adopted by the then town authorities in Smokejanestown by the review board. It is also inevitable to ask why alarm bells did not call earlier. We must have to trace this sad story back in the years and ask why someone did not intervene sooner because the cost to the inhabitants of Smokeytown is terrible. The Kingdom must be responsible for having a surveillance system that works. In order to avoid repeating the situation, we must be guided by the story in order to learn from it. The review board must explain how the town's plans for the city's government were adopted in Smokejanestown in the past few years when a public witness was that there was no material basis for the clouds of that town. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u43	A respectable president. First, I want to guess at the beginning of my speech that while Smokeyastown is in debt and is in this poor financial situation, there are strong people and good people, and it is good to live. For example, schools are outstanding and successful, and there are fine soils and soils for job construction and, in particular, innovation with Keislis and others. So let's keep it clear, and let's keep it straight for the rest of our society. A rural government law makes clear the monitoring to include rural society and the implementation of their financial issues. The monitoring committee has a very clear role to monitor and obtain all annual accounts and to have access to these data. We must assume that any plans made by the local authorities will be made at the discretion of the surveillance committee. It is natural to ask them all the questions, " Is it government at any given time that is responsible for the monitoring committee or who is responsible for the failure of their plans? ' On the other hand, all rural society know that plans do not always pass. The estimated income does not come from a variety of external circumstances that change over time. Costs may increase, e.g. Because of population growth, which has been high in Smokeynestown. There has been a growing population that has cost the structure of wood, which has been successful, as mentioned by the school. It has also been observed that the average income in the town of Rhine is smaller than anywhere else. If the average income of ten of the largest rural societies were valid for income at Smokejanestown, the income would be 900 million more each year. It's the same amount as the Scenario, a structure plan, expects. However, local investments have also gone into ensuring job structure to increase the average income. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u44	Mr. President. Clearly, there are many interactive factors that have led to the severe problems we face in Southnes and, unfortunately, more widely than in Smokeytown, as shown by Sandmaker's heavy debt. But they must also look to the responsibility of their previous rulers. I don't think it's possible to reach a conclusion other than the fact that the privatization and exposé policy there has been short-lived defenders as well as others. They sell and get money in the box, then sit down with expensive rent, and then they have nothing in the years when rent money gains and gain weight. I also believe that overemphasis on housing and population growth during the flogging season in areas where the basics of industry were ill should, of course, be a factor in the fact that once the valley gets tough, the job situation will be very bad in this area. But the situation is what it is. It is a serious matter that the fifth largest rural society is in this great crisis. Although a new town government is coping with the situation on a firm basis, it is no doubt a painful step to add a curse to the population, that is limited and that I accept. As a result, I believe that under such circumstances, governments should do all they can to back up areas in which they face such challenges and especially when humans prove that they themselves are dealing with the challenges and are making sacrifices for it. There are various ways in which humans can do this. The first government made a special visit to this area and started various projects. They may not have been huge, but all was to help. I haven't seen much of the fact that the present government has produced similar attacks on the backwaters. The Kingdom is behind everything, directly and indirectly, a large investment and structure in the area. These include construction at Leifs son of Erik's terminal and construction on Ásb bridge, which, of course, can be done better. Finally, Mr. President, I'd like to say that it's my opinion, and it's been my opinion that when rural communities have such problems, other societies in this country also have to help. [[The president calls.]] There is also to be a sense of responsibility among the country's rural communities, and they can go through their organizations and make a contribution, e.g. with a good loan and a good deal on loans from a country partner's loan fund. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u45	V.E.G. President. There is no need to be misled that the situation in Smokeytown is gravely serious. We who have lived in the South since then have been tracking things year after year and never could understand anything that was happening in what has just happened, as we have noted, was under attack on great projects, and everything was based on hopes and expectations, as presented in the case of the highest degree. Minister of state. It was all based on hope and expectations, and it all collapsed. Last October, I attended the town meeting where there were no more than 400 people, and I listened to the program that has been submitted today under the name Soccer. This has been shown in the matter of why. Congress is seriously dealing with this crisis. That task may be extremely difficult, and it may especially be trying to help people or to tell people the truth about the situation, the more part of the town of Smokeytown is at stake. Some may even refuse to believe in how things are being done, for no one ever missed that they were always told in interviews and statements from the former town government that everything was fine, that would be all happening. The lesser part that pointed out that things were not all right was always considered to be playing some political school, and they were deceived. But there has been another development of the day. I just agree with what. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon to help one another, especially us in the Southnes, this good area. It's good to live there, as shown in the language of the Vilhjálmur. Árnason There are good schools and good infrastructures there are all in Smokeytown. We need to help each other to strengthen the local community and help them get out of their hard times and make pies together, as the mayor of Smokeytown has asked people to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u46	V.E.G. President. In previous talks, several basic issues involving rural society, the responsibility of the local government and the role of the head of a financial organisation have been addressed. And it's good to hear that rural society is in general on its way after the economic collapse. But today's community, Smokeytown, is out of place, and it looks like it's going to take years to get the town's business into order. According to the 2013 annual account, debt and commitments relative to total income were all too high - the 2013 debt limit for the year was 255%! All rural areas were damaged by economic collapse. Many rural communities have lost their jobs in their territory. However, it is not as if it were subjugated to a local community, as has happened in Smokeynestown. I am angry and sad that this is what has happened to us. The conclusion is that the inhabitants have to pay the bill for their forward drive. Our answer goes up considerably, and the same is true of real estate. That's a hell of a down-and-out for the citizens of Smokeytown. At the same time, there are various areas in which people will be reduced. I want us to ask ourselves, " Do I have more information for the local authorities when I can't trust the local authorities to be completely honest in their information given to people? ' I would also like to consider, too, whether we should even consider whether the role of the review board should be greater and further carried out in invasive matters. In Smokeytown's case, it's way too late for the butt. Do not let that happen to other societies. To me, the solution is to strengthen the control of rural society and the information delivery to the population.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u47	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for taking up this special discussion and all other participants for the introduction. As we have seen, it is in the town of Smokeynes who suffers the nearness of the town's driving. They have to pay a higher price for the unwise decisions of politicians, and the town needs to meet in service to its inhabitants. Of course, it is ironic to conclude that the responsibility is for the inhabitants because they have made a choice in political action that did not recognize the consequences of their actions or financial resources in dreams that did not come true. People are counting on the local monitoring committee and that when it sets up red furrows, appropriate action will be taken before everything goes into the fire and the bar. But it seems that there has failed as far as Smokeynestown is concerned, the observations of the surveillance committee have not reached all the way to the population. I remind you of a synonym that I am a 1st importer and was submitted on November 13th. where the highest will be Governments are commissioned to appoint a group of five experts from the same number of programmes to achieve a time - appointed work programme to promote employment and community in the South. It is not clear when the suggestion is scheduled, but the highest. A minister rightly pointed out that a matter to be handled at the town of Rhine is represented by more departments. That's why I'm asking the highest. Secretary of the county government whether she's going to accept my Congress resolution on her arms and put her information into the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u48	V.E.G. President. I appreciate this discussion. Of course, there are conflicting opinions as to whether the review board should have proposed more intensive measures, such as having an investigation of the financial affairs of the rural community, but it must be borne in mind that the local government has never reported the Commission to the Committee on Fundament as required by local government laws. It's only happened once, the highest. The president, and that was in the case of the Company Elfness. Farmers themselves are responsible for their financial affairs. That is fundamental, and there is no escape. It's their job to the law. On the other hand, we've put this difference as a surveillance committee in case of problems, and that's exactly what we're looking at right now. The farm society is now working on the basis of an agreement made in December, more clearly identifying the financial situation of the community. I expect that work will be completed in March/ April which will then be considered by the review board and we will be better able to see what the situation is. The agreement made at the State Department had a year of age, so we have this year to figure it out. I think it's very important that we see what comes out of it before we begin to have more words than is needed in this regard. We always need to make sure that our rural society has a very sensitive group of subjects. This is the government that is closest to us citizens with homes, children, and so forth, so that, of course, every man in the city of Rhines was aware of the problem. I think people have to use the resources they have to deal with this problem. I think we should wait until we see how that analysis is done.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u49	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 153/2014, for the conversion of X. Annex to the EEA Convention on Global Service, and for the implementation of the European Parliament's Directive and of the Council 2011/24/EU on patient rights over cross-border health care and the Commission Directive 2012/52/EU on measures to facilitate recognition of the medicinal products published in another Member State. The aforementioned directive aims to provide access to safe, high - quality health care across borders, and contribute to the co-operation of health care between Member States, although the right of the Member States to organise their own health care services and how it is administered in each Member State. Then, in the latter, you will find steps that will facilitate the recognition of prescriptions published in another Member State. The induction calls for changes in the law of No. 112/2008, for health insurance and is aimed at providing the health - care minister with its bill at the current assembly. Of course, a health - care minister will discuss the bill at a time when it will be submitted, but to develop a large number of them, in accordance with the national health care directive, the right of individuals to choose to seek other EEA or EFTA services. Medical insurance is required to pay costs as if it were health care, as is part of the service that health insurance is involved in paying in this country. However, this does not apply to the activities of daily living, the design of organs and their availability for transplants or infectious diseases. This will be the authority to limit the reimburse costs on the basis of the most urgent public interest. Today, there is little need for individuals to travel abroad to seek medical care in the EU and is expected to continue as much of the patients receive and prefer health care in their own country. During the implementation of the directive, individuals living in this country will be made more comfortable to seek health care from other EEA countries and may therefore be considered more suitable for them. However, in induction of the bill, pre-contract requirements can be set in certain cases according to the authority of the directive. In terms of a high cost estimate, the health secretary's bill follows that the law of No. 112/2008, health insurance. As the decision made by the joint EEA committee calls for legal adjustments in this country, it was taken on administrative notice and is therefore requested by the General's approval for the changes in the EEA Convention in the decision to rid it of the government in advance. I propose, my honored President, after this discussion is followed by this suggestion. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u50	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for the speech. In fact, I felt that he was beinglittled. I think it's a much bigger case and it can have a very economic impact in the European Union on individual countries in plus minus. I assume that people can attend services to other European countries during periods of waiting and services could be provided only by cloth and disk, and this could lead to health services or health travel. I'm going to ask the highest. A minister would have been checked at his ministry whether this would lead to tourism in which they sought service could be farming for Icelanders, i.e. that there are many tourists who come to seek medicine in various areas where we have a shorter list and may stand ahead, for example, a time of lens replacement, while the Icelanders go abroad to serve there when there are long periods of waiting and they don't get the ministry right away.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u51	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. The Ministry assessment, as mentioned in my address here and in text with the proposal, is that it is considered that there is little chance that a person will cross the borders of health care. For one thing, the directive allows countries to place certain restrictions on such services, and the ministry is comparable in many ways. It is also possible to ask for a prior agreement, if you want to go and get medical help, that is a requirement. Of course, all of this needs to be replaced by the law and the bill that will be submitted here. Is this gonna be some kind of an opportunity for Iceland? Of course, it is quite clear that if foreign people, patients in the EEA, want to come to Iceland and go to health care, and their countries have not established any rules that can keep them from it or limit it in any way, etc., if I have the right view of this type, it should be easier. But I reiterate that the export is, of course, very much dependent on what the bill will look like.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u52	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I think that the problem will be examined at the Council and the Department of Health or the Ministry of Health when they intend to write laws to fill in this Senate resolution and give notice that men can go abroad when they are not assigned to serve here within a short period of time. I think we're talking about three months. But it is clear that when people are sick and cannot be served, they seek every way to get it, especially if it is urgent. This is natural encouragement to health care from all countries to avoid a waiting list. At the same time, as I could, it's an opportunity for Iceland to get to them patients who don't get a service within the time I could in their own country. So it can go both ways. Nevertheless, this requires that health care be both rapid, good, and inexpensive.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u53	A respectable president. You're absolutely right. A senator, that is all that is natural for patients to look for ways to obtain early service and solutions from their problems. There is nothing here that prevents each country from organizing its health care according to the way it is given at home. Not all medical services fall under this directive, so it is also mentioned. Although it is assumed that in general the patient is not required for prior consent when looking across borders after services, it is permitted to do this if this is done, for example, for the sake of public interest, etc. I think that this proposal, the bill, is obviously not shown, that this case should be in the best interests of patients.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u54	Madam President. This discussion is similar to many of the discussions we have of proposals for the resolution of various EU directives and the European Economic Areas. I think it's a bit dangerous how little we do because we dissipate these directives. We all know the Icesave case that was based on the European Commission's directive and has since grown further in the European Union's directive, and we know a number of other forms of advising, I would like to say. So I challenge it to him. Councilmen reading the council hearing proposals from the highest level. The minister of foreign affairs is much closer and more careful not to accept them entirely blindly. In reality, though, they are not given much discussion. And when the law-enforcement products come to fill the directives, it is said: Well, this is only under the European Union's directive, and we must agree with it. We are thus left with instructions, sometimes and, in fact, with very good and much improvement, but occasionally they can be very harmful. I remind you again of the deposit policy that I think is just not good at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u55	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator, however, wanted him primarily to apply what he mentioned in his closing words because of trouble. A member of the Parliament's Economic and Business Committee has been a spokesman for the Independence Party and for the financial markets. He puts it this way: The deposit directive isn't good. Then you must ask, "Is it? " So a senator would say that he doesn't think we should introduce it? Well, we can't say we're not the kind of ones that we don't think are good. So, what situation exists if we do not do so in this cooperation with the European Economic Area and our participation in it? Because of the enormous scope of interest, although the matter is not exactly the arrangement under which the senator made this a special subject, there is bound to be something other than to ask the senator further in that statement.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u56	Madam President. I mentioned this as an example of an arrangement that, in my opinion, isn't good. I can argue that credit insurance, which aims to ensure a small fraction of loans in the country -- let's say that a bank with 20% market share of credits, all three of the banks in Iceland, can't stand the failure of the system to fail on such sides, it's just not a good system. In fact, there is evidence that in most EU countries, the system would not tolerate a major bank with 20% share departments and even much smaller losses. So I mentioned it as an example. But what I'm saying is, I'd like to encourage you. Councilmen to be much more involved in considering it when it comes to matters, Suggestions to consistency on the confirmation of specific directives. For example, this is a health - care directive that enables people to travel throughout Europe to obtain health care that they feel they do not have here. I'm just saying that these directives aren't necessarily as good as any of us would like to keep off such a big bond as the European Union.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u57	A respectable president. It was just inevitable to ask why. A senator's point of view because his class has not wanted to become a full member of the European community, part of the relationship itself, party to the European Bank and all that organization, but the team has wanted to have this European Economic Area Convention and us as parties to the one who implements the directives sent here by fax. The senator now says that the basic financial directive, the one that makes it possible to make deposit would not be good for Iceland. I'm not going to argue with the senator about that. Let's just say he's absolutely right on that subject. What, then, will the senator do? Is he going to re-enact his fax to Brussels? Or is he going to tell the free cooperation of the European Economic Area? Or what is the senator's plan if he believes that this great decree to this important team in a financial market is not good? In the arrangement he supports, as we are members of the EEA, but we have no influence on the original decision, what will he do when he receives wicked orders as he seems to think this is the case? Will he refuse to introduce them, and how will this affect our cooperation? And wasn't it a financial and business committee this morning to refuse to decide whether any Brussels directive was good or bad because the committee didn't have a point? And if the senator had not in this light, he should have had a view on the basis of Article 2. this morning's meeting if he thinks so?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u58	Madam President. I would like to point out that we are here discussing a proposal for the resolution of the decision made by the Joint EEA on the Change of X. An Annex on Health Care Professional Services. Here's why. A senator has gone out of the world, talking about meeting at the Economic and Business Committee this morning, etc., so I don't think I'm dealing with all of it. However, I think, and I'm pointing the reason. Congress members need to consider much more closely the directives that come from the European Union. Not all of them are as good as people might think they have been very carefully considered in the European Union. Thus, when people say that Iceland does not have access to that decision, it is that even larger nations, such as Finns and Danir and other northern nations, complain that they have no effect on decisions because they are actually taken from the three largest countries, if not just one. You saw that when the trouble was in the bank's debt, it was really France and Germany that made decisions about what should happen within the euro. So even smaller countries, very large on our standards, Italy, and Spain and others, were complaining that they were not participants in decisions. So I'm thinking that Iceland, although it was part of the European Union, had nothing too important to make decisions. But we're in the process of making a suggestion to be a synonym for the implementation of the EEA Directive and I was just challenging it. Councilmen look at them further than at the fact that the discussion is so small, as it has become so true here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u59	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to the final budget for 2013 that has been distributed on the roof. 907. The bill suggests, on the other hand, changes in budgets due to problems in the markets of taxes and other management revenues according to the 2013 State account as compared to budgetary budgets and budgets for 2013 and, on the other hand, laid proposals for subsidies at the end of the year. The bill also follows an overview of budget positions by the end of 2013 that are expected to be transferred to 2014. Then the bill will also confirm the results of the state's success as per federal account for 2013. The build-up of the bill is the same as in the last few years, and the proposal for reimbursement and the provision of the year's financial status is based on the same guidelines that have been established. Package leaflet 2 provides a summary of the number base of the bill. This overview shows the origin of all the budgets of 2013, both for total and for individual financial resources. It consists of overcrowded budgets from the previous year, budgets under budgets and funds, transfers within the year, and changes in budgets because of the disproportionateness of the state's income under this bill. Next, budgetary expenditures and, at the end of the year, financial facilities are implemented, i.e. The difference between total capital and account-employed bills. Total resources in 2013 reached 595.4 billion dollars. And the cost by the state bill was 592 billion.2 billion. This year's financial status was thus positive at 3.2 billion dollars. which is about 0.5% of the total budget of the year. This year's budget has been divided into a total of 26.6 billion dollars. leftover warrants and 23.4 billion dollars. external fees for individual budgetors. As in times past, there are several irregular forces that have a high priority on financial resources. These include 11.9 billion dollars. excess expenditure for canceling tax charges, approx. One hundred and twenty-five thousand dollars. increase in pension debt over the budget of budgets and budgets and less than 500 million. K. implementation of the stocked value of assets in companies and funds in the accounts of the Union. In all cases, there is a total of 13.8 billion over financial resources, which were unpredictable at the disposal of the 2013 budget, where they are being completed in a closed state bill about six months later. With the exception of the three teams, this year's budget is at the end of a positive 17 billion dollars. The bill suggests that the end of the year will either be cut down, as indicated at 2 Timothy 3: 1. ., or transfer to the next year as indicated in package leaflet 1. So I'm going to go down to the bill's sides. At 1 Corinthians 15: 33 - 33 C.E. Article 1, as further as disintegration 1, there are proposals for change in budgets in 2013 due to the variation in markets of taxes and other sectoral agencies from budgets and budgets. It is suggested that budgets be increased by 1.2 billion, according to this, on financing of projects with markets of government income. For more details, it is requested by the Council to take care of these revenues according to what was established according to a financial account or who considered the need for projects that were funded by these revenues. In general, budgets increase by markets over budgets but decrease if income has been less than expected. This reference is not valid, however, because there is no evidence of changes in budgetary resources due to state income abnormalities where income costs are not directly correlated with spending requirements so that changes in income will have a direct impact on costs. The same is true if financial expenditures have been determined on projects, regardless of potential changes in financing with marketd income, such as contributions to road transport. Two. By the end of 2013, the bill, as measured by the dissociation of 2. This year's financial options are based on guidelines that are primarily considered to be legal in terms of spending, depending on laws other than financial or economic laws, system, or accounting factors rather than financial management of certain administrative institutions. It is also thought that the transfer of wastes to general employment and regular business projects does not generally exceed 10% of the budget of the enterprise unless there are special reasons for it to be considered otherwise. If this project is completed, the permissions will also be dropped. As always before, the preparation of this final budget bill has been done on the basis of the guidelines. The purpose of limiting the transfers of funds between 10% of the year and 10% of the budget is, among other things, to stem the possibility of gross spending beyond budgets, as well as additional expenditures established on the basis of the covered budgets of state funds in the same way as other expenditures. During the preparation of the bill, the reports of the remainder of the financial status were over the above mentioned criteria. In some cases, the Ministry felt that it was necessary to transfer more rights to 2014. An example of such is if a project has been delayed over a year or if a commitment has been established on the basis of unregistered funds. According to point two. The bill is dropping 9.7 billion dollars. budgets in the management database, but on databases, 4 billion fall. leftover. The difference is largely due to a demolition of 13.8 billion. Above the three irregular joints I went back to earlier, where, in any case, there is an accounting-observation without a payment from a government fund during the year. The SmPC 1 package contains a summary of budgets that are expected to be transferred to 2014. As a result of these measures, there is a clear increase of 12.9 billion dollars in 2014. which are about 2% of budgeted 2014. In contrast, in the final budget of 2012, there was 14,8 billion dollars. positive status moved to 2013, i.e. which corresponds to 2.4% of budget 2013. I've, a respectable president, studied key elements of the bill. This is presented to the General Assembly on State Funds on Resources in 2013, in connection with this in the budget and in the state account on key issues on the progress of the budget and the major interest issues in income and expenditures. A review of the 2013 State accounts has also been submitted by the Council of Nations. So I don't think there's any reason for further reviewing the details of the bill and suggesting that it be referred to a 2nd. ... andwhat. The General Fundament Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u60	A respectable president. I've said that before, and I still say that I always feel that last financial law is very inaccessible. It takes considerable effort to look for information and to see how all of this is presented. But because the Minister mentioned government bills, we have only been wondering if it would be necessary to be in line between the capital in finals and the financial bills because it is intended to confirm the state bill by this bill. For example, there are negative spots on the budget team airports and flying history services. You wonder if it would be necessary to correct it, since the financial institutions say that it should have been arranged to disseminate this from a government account. It is not determined how to do so. I'm gonna ask the secretary if he thinks we can do better here. There's something else, F.O.G. It's like 04-241. There, all the markets of the team take care of them. This is indicated by a better performance and elevation of the capital than had been expected by the budget 92 billion. K. would be kept in the state's treasure. And it's the same thing, what is the highest opinion. The secretary of the budget for this production? I also want to ask you something else because I don't realize it. When you are looking at the first section of the bill, there will be certain replacements, which may not be included in the package leaflets 1 and 2, for example, on pages 04-583. Thirty-eight, house warm payment. There's $1.7 million in there. K., that's no more, but what is it? What is it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u61	A respectable president. Regarding the agreement referred to, and concerning the bill to the final financial law and state account, I would like to note that according to the arrangement expected to include new laws on public finances, these cases will make significant changes, and the final financial law will become unnecessary in itself according to the arrangement under which it is being established. In an explanation of the specific points asked about them, I briefly followed in my language that there may be a difference in the outcome of the income. It is a general rule that I took steps to ensure that it is devoted to the activities behind the income industry in the market, but the rule is not absolute. I think that the incident mentioned that has to do with the SEC is of that kind. In this respect, the budget and even budgets are only a plan on certain factors that will not be made final until the next year of budget is completed and we have had the opportunity to look over the overall budget and how it will happen in terms of a financial account, and then it is reflected here in this publication. On the other matters asked, I think quite clearly that there should be more information about them in the treatment of the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u62	A respectable president. It happened that the committee took this matter before it was established. I asked the Ministry of Economics about it, and I didn't get the answer, so I hope that next time we meet the committee, they're the ones who pay on house warming to carry anywhere. There's a lot of talk about the new law. According to the Ministry, we first see their appearance in the first year of 2017, and therefore we expect another such bill with this very confusing and ambiguity that has been brought back next year and the next year because it is before 2013. However, there is something else I would like to ask the minister about, which is on page. 76 with surgeons and public health funds under it, i.e. This difference in implementation in terms of government accounts and in final financial law. Why doesn't this all fit? It would be wise to ask if the minister has any suggestion that the new format of the accessory documents, e.g. whether or not it was more clear to the package 2 shows the amount dropped and the one that goes over to the next year. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u63	A respectable president. In fact, I think it's nice to keep it separate and that it's in a special package where it's moving to the next year. I suppose there are explanations that can be called upon in the administration of the Committee when individual teams are met by some discrepancies between those that appear in the final budget and those that have been reported in a financial account, but unfortunately I do not know all the individual members.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u64	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. A minister for making contributions on this final budget bill, which is a confirmation of government accounts, although these numbers are not the same. But knowing the highest. A minister can be very perplexing in explanations and other matters I would like to recall this year, 2013. It's about the budget of former governments and the final budget of the experience with them. When I'm at the highest. In the middle of 2013, the government predicted that the recovery of the first part would be 16 billion for the sake of the former government. Now I want to enter the highest. Ministers to what was changed so much. I don't remember any measures in cuts or changes in a new government in the latter part of the year. It was simply underestimated the quality of the former government that returned at that time, bringing in much better land than was spoken of. I expect the highest. The minister's sincerity and eloquent reasoning confirmed that things were far more favorable than had been foretold. I witnessed it when it was the highest. The minister of Bjarni Benediktsson stepped up and corrected this when men were riding in institutions all over the country for the lack of financial control, a great limp in the early part of the year, and then all in the latter part of the year lost because of the lack of income and expenses. Is that not exactly the same with the current government coverage of the budget in its time? The other question I'd like to ask is a transfer of literature, i.e. ... toaclutter. It is expected in the final budget to cancel a debt at the Land Hospital, which I think was highly advisable and not to be involved in laterment. However, it is observed, as shown on page 19. 78, years of age, as in agricultural schools and other such institutions. Would it not have been a reason to clear this out so that people would not always be ashamed of their failure to deliver the same old suit?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u65	Madam President. Regarding the first thing, what happened from mid - 2013 to the end of the year that improved the quality of the state funds, it was mainly a monocommunication from delivery of stocks in the Lands Bank that made the situation very significant. When we looked at our business exclusively and look past irregular incomes, the situation ended pretty close to what was foretold in 2013. Of course, I'm happy that the overall result was better than watchin', but I think it has been shown that the maintenance measures taken by the new government for the summer and the fall of 2013 by means of financial contributions have been necessary. They were wise in view of the uncertainty that then existed and in order to ensure the goals that the government set out to shut down the money hole at the first possible opportunity. A question about the University of Agriculture, the slope that has remained in that area, was also asked, as well as a result that in the bill, the old hospital's sliding tail is dropped. Then, with the Land Hospital, an agreement will succeed at the time to try to secure a safe business and, when its goals are met, what was promised in that agreement is realized, i.e. To drop the older one down. The challenges of the agricultural university have been ongoing. But in my Ministry, I'm interested in establishing a clear procedure for the institutions and members on these issues so that older men can walk out after a certain period of contract if relative clear and transparent goals have been reached.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u66	V.E.G. President. I specifically stated that I thought it was right for men to fall downhill like at Land Hospital. I'm glad to hear it. According to a minister, there will be a clear structure and agreements made between the institution and the state funds to collapse. There's been no rule about this, rather, taking some personal decisions. V.E.G. According to a minister, there are no 17 or 20 billion who were corrected because the state's budget of the latter part of the year became much better off without the intervention of state funds, and the management was far better than the highest. A minister prophesied during interviews when he began to frighten the common people. If aside from irregular sections, such as market points for banks, i.e. from Arion Bank. The business was largely realized without the need for a new government. [[The president calls.]] I think there was a greater need for people to admit how the previous government dealt with this jointly with the nation, the success it had achieved. There's enough people can get so excited about something outside of it if it's changing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u67	Madam President. I don't think this is a factor that is a basis for a major disagreement. There's a monocommunication of about three dozen billion that makes the year's overall coming into balance, but it's at a minor angle, which, of course, is positive, as I turned away from earlier. It was a monocommunicate, which was taken into account in the postponing of the Lands Bank stock stocks to the land's stocks, and in turn, delivery of stocks to government funds that no payment was made and therefore this large revenue.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u68	Madam President. The 2013 budget was adopted at the end of 2012. Then, at the end of 2013, funding was adopted, and now, at the beginning of 2015, we are accepting the final budget. My question to the highest. A minister will be able to shorten this process from the end of 2013 until the end of the budget is approved. I wanted to see it most in February or March a year later. It should be possible if a person set that goal. This makes big companies around the world with a lot more shares than the Icelandic government does, they are able to set up annual bills in January or February, and my question is, Is this being chosen and whether these new financial laws will make this possible? It would be good to see how the rest of the budget is developed in 2013 and funding, and then final financial laws develop. It is leftover by a government fund, for example, that is relevant to the development of inflation, and the real rest, not some virtual rest, as it has sometimes been in the past.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u69	Madam President. I agree with what. A senator, it is most desirable to shorten this period as far as possible. In fact, I believe that we managed to get the money back from us sooner than long ago. We're still close to the 2013 final budget, though. I agree with that. Regarding the development of total reimbursement, showing how he develops from bill input throughout the process, it would also be interesting to note that there was a clear presentation of this development by final budget or by government account by incident. Yet, I feel that many times and times have been overemphasized about changing the budget since it is submitted. In general discussions, it is often interpreted as a great sign of weakness if the reciprocal gates change to an increase in the activities of the council, but it can be a perfectly natural and clear reason not to be suspicious, as is often done when people are in general debates about these matters. This may be directly the result of the calculated sizes. It does not have to be a decision to increase the real cost by means of a special new budget. So in this context, I feel that it is important that the first thing that is being seen is how the budget is finally taken care of from the council, and less likely to see how the procedure has been made from bill input to approved unless one takes that issue specifically, breaks it up, and separates it between specific decisions that lead to a payout and the calculated sizes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u70	Madam President. Identities are set up to confirm a state bill. Last year, the 2013 government account was submitted to August, and now we are discussing the final financial law, which is a state account to confirm. In fact, I don't think that it was ever possible to contribute along with government bills and final financial laws, as expected in financieries, and neither did it succeed today. It is true to remind you of this because it is critical each year that you will not succeed, and it is not good for us who are working with government bills and final financial laws that such a long period of time goes on. In November of last year, a government review was completed, covering several items. According to the 2013 State account, the income paid is about 700 million. However, funds and funds had assumed that it would be 19.7 billion dollars. It is good to point out this in the following words that followed. paritaprevir The son of Helei, the Guðbjartur of the Hannesson, and the chief of all. Financial and economic secretary for the delivery of 2013. I would like to talk about the Market Points of Anion Bank, published on August 18, 2014, and testify, by permission of the President, to that informed analysis. It reviews the situation and also points out that if we withdraw from irregular teams on both the income side and the pay side, we are even to nine billion dollars. It says that in order to identify the underlying budget, it is beneficial to overlook irregular teams and to examine how the delinquency developed between years and then to illustrate how evolution was developed between 2009 and 2013, according to a governmental account. From that point of view, according to the survey, the collection of Kingdom funds is positive in 2013 at a rate of 9 billion. and getting better by 20 billion bucks. between. This is also shown by the picture that they show that significant results have been achieved over the last five years, with a steady recovery of over the years, with a total of over 120 million. K. Better than in 2009. It is interesting to examine these things without irregular joints because during the period, large amounts of money are represented as irregular joints. It's an apartment loan fund, we've reacted to its survival, and like the highest. A minister pointed out to enter the income side of 2015 at 25 billion dollars. Because of the increase in government funds at the Bank of the Lands. On the other hand, tax demands are canceled at 22 billion, with an estimated less than 12 billion. So these are also irregular groups that weigh back and more joints enter that work on both the income and the pay button. But if we were to look at only basics, the result would have been 9 billion in plus 2013, which is very positive. I mentioned earlier that the types of tax returns in the 2013 state account are 21,883 billion. K. However, a budget in the budget had been assumed to be 10 billion dollars. We on the budget board have criticized the fact that the writing is not accurate because it adheres to certain rules. It is only unexpected that a large bankruptcy occurs, which, of course, is all brought down quickly because it is obvious that the requirements cannot be collected. However, since we do not see such things in 2013, we have requested a review of these copies by the Government. If everything had been the way it is, if the tax returns had been as planned, the government's budget would have come out plus in 2013. I think it's something to think about, but I'm not accusing anyone of anything. All I want to do is make sure that those who bring down the tax requirements, and of course they're just calculated figures and politicians aren't supposed to come near, look at the results of the year, and say, "Well, there's a table for a table. Let's take a little bit of tax and bring it down now because it's a table for the table. I'd like to make sure that it wasn't the case, but it's under certain rules that are recorded and at the same time over plans. We can watch in 2012 where there were also expected to be about 10 million. K. Subscriptions of tax returns to less than 5 billion, so there is also a big difference between schedules and descriptions and the importance of reviewing them. But if we were to take out only the releases of taxes and they would have been as planned in 2013, we would have entered the plus. That's quite interesting and certainly reason to compare that with what I allow to say was in the executives of the administrations, both the highest. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. Economic and economic ministers, about the middle of the year when they declared an emergency in the state of the state in 2013. So when reality is revealed in terms of government accounts and last financial law, everything else will be revealed. A respectable president. I'm sure the people of this country could put it together, tore up what was said and what was done, because what was done when the new world was done. The government received a discount on fishing fees, except for legislation that expected foreign tourists to be paying a higher consumer tax for the innition and to cancel mostly the former government investment programme, but not entirely. These are the largest mails that were changed, and then institutions were squeezed in other ways. The results that were supposed to be in the plans for a new government of less than 20 billion certainly did not occur in that way. Rather, it was 700 million, and if irregular teams are removed, the results would have been 9 billion in plus. I think it's news worth stopping at. A survey of government points to a number of reports that have repeatedly pointed to the Council of State accounts. Some of it will be better if new laws on government finance are accepted, and there are some of the answers to some of the comments. I'd like to stop by a few comments From the Kingdom Accounting. One of them is that the General examines the possibility of passing tax laws. I find this to be an interesting comment, and it says here in a State Review report, with the permission of a president: ◯ In 2013 tax returns 17.8 billion dollars. Compared to 17.2 billion dollars. in 2012. In recent years government review has called attention to the treatment of tax collectors in the state books, their classifications, and the legal environment. The Ministry of Economic Affairs has discussed the last few years' budgets describing this problem in this way: the use of tax evasion will be the boundaries between earnings and paying for the more public inexplicable and at the same time the tax system becomes more hostile and complex. Furthermore, there is a tendency to maintain them very rich, even though the original evidence for their existence is no longer applicable. It was and is the opinion of the State opinion that the Council needs to consider the basis for setting specific tax-authority legislation that made it clear about the goals of taxes and that they were well defined and measurable. All the grounds, observations, and calculations submitted to the council would need to be thorough and documented. Then it is suggested that the time would be limited in all cases. I find this very interesting and think it's important to go to that job as well as to define what taxes are. For example, I want to ask myself: " When a job deals with consumer taxes, like the public, when he shops for such necessities as groceries, hotels, and hostels, is it tax scholarships, or what? It's very important, I think, that we define what corporate and commercial tax allowances are, and we wonder about that on the way of a job that collects less consumer taxes than other sectors whether it is a special tax policy or not. I think it's an interesting subject that I agree with with a Government Review that needs to be reviewed. Then, according to the National Review Study, an discussion on the risks of the state's funds will be published in financial accounts. In other words, they are stressing the risks of government funds and will be explained and stated so that people can discern the risk. It speaks of a potential risk for financial gain, growth risk, shape risk, reimbursement of risk and risks for potential natural disasters. In their decision, the National Accounting Commission states that if a public financial bill is accepted, it will be in a different way than it is now. However, regardless of how much the bill to legalize government budgets, the State's Accounting (UNEP) would be considered as a result of considering the largest financial risk factors in the state's budget. I think it's very important that we do. The wealth has suffered a great shock, especially as a result of risks taken. We should learn from that experience and try to define the risk, and at the same time keep it from becoming too heavy. A respectable president. This bill for the final budget is here in 1st. and now into action in the middle of nowhere. It's a legal committee. I'll be more likely to talk about the individual parts of the bill at 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u71	A respectable president. I'd like to ask you what. For the sake of its words on the death of tax collectors in 2012 and the release of tax collectors in 2013. In 2012 the rate was 10 billion, but tax requirements were suspended by 5 billion that year. The same is true in the 2013 bill, which leaves 10 billion taxes and goes to 22.5 billion. I'd like to ask you what. A senator because I felt that it was a political move to cancel from 10 billion to 22.5 and again from 10 billion to 5: 1. A senator explains what it means when it is considered political in return because I know that it is. A senator has also served as a member of the local government, and there's tax requirements written in a budget, if it is clear that he will not be able to collect them? Wait a minute. A senator to explain what it means when it is spoken of as being political in favor of both sides.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u72	A respectable president. I hope I made it clear in my language that I emphasized that these are the formulas that should not be involved in politics. However, we on a financial committee did not get an explanation for the identity of this difference. We've requested that a government review go through it and explain to the budget board because we don't want to sit with any speculation that since a table was served in 2013, this was done, not 2012, understand why. A senator to me? That it is absolutely certain that we can be absolutely sure of that and that we are provided with evidence that the rules have been followed. There's a delay in the tax demand, like why. A senator is likely to know, so at a certain time of the year, something has been raised that has been written off, unless it is a major bankruptcy. Of course, they expect not to receive it, so there is no reason to delay. That is why we have been called upon to explain the matter because they are to be understood. That my knowledge is that this can be determined accurately, and we should be able to see such fluctuations in any way unless there is a massive bankruptcy that unexpected events occur. No one has helped us to see that this was true in 2013. On a budget board, we are still waiting for an analysis of the National Reexamination that will show this point.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u73	A respectable president. Hv. A senator wishes to be a member of the budget board... to explain the releases of taxes in 2013. I agree with that. A senator said that when it is assumed that there are 10 billion, the tax requirements are canceled for 22.5 billion, this calls for an explanation. But I think that also calls for an explanation if the tax requirements are in the budget of 10 billion, but they are only 5, why. That's why I'd like to ask him why. Councilman: much. At the same time, a senator calls for a review of the State Accounting on why the tax requirements available on the bill 2012 to 10 billion did not become 10 billion but 5 billion? This must go in both directions if the main concept is to pass budget and budgets, whether it is the country's budget or the government's budget, it must be fairly clear each year for how long tax requirements have been available and whether it is next to collect or not. I agree with that. A senator realizes quite clearly, but the question is, When are they written off and why are they written out more than less?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u74	A respectable president. Of course, not only is it taken in 2013. More years need to be examined, precisely because of the rules being followed. The requirements are set for a number of years, and then are canceled if it is clear that they cannot be collected. To assist us in the budget of monitoring, it is very important that plans are accurate and good and can be used as a control tool. In 2013, the swing of less than 12 billion - that's a pretty big amount. As I discussed in my case earlier, if a plan had been successful, we would still have a positive operation in spite of irregular forces in 2013. That certainly takes about 12 billion dollars in the accounts of the Kingdom. I think it's important that plans are over my head, and that's what needs to be handled. It's not a political bitch who's supposed to be writing taxes, and I'm not saying it's there, but we need it in the light of transparency and trust to get this on the table so that we can, in the end, plan for a better cut-off of taxes in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u75	Mr. President. It will be late to say that the final budget is particularly exciting. Throughout history, they have been presented in a way that is not readily available in many respects. You wonder, then, when we on a budget board have to make a considerable effort to read together and try to figure out what it says and even ask the Ministry, which cannot answer the first attack, how, in any way, those who want to observe the State's financial laws should be able to do so. You're talking about something that's over and that in itself can be done and little can be done, except mostly from what comes out of it, and how much time should you spend on it. I think, for example, it would be a great improvement to have in package 2 with bill 1 and 2, at least One column at the end showing permission to cut down and then move, instead of using it in two ways, and you actually see the final position at either place. I'd like to see, because this isn't the last budget that's going to be made this way, they're probably going to come up twice more, that there's going to be a change to make the final budget readable. It is always referred to the law bill that has been in the process of government income rather than of taking effect, and it is more important to try to apply that idea. I asked a minister questions earlier that he couldn't answer. In fact, the Ministry has not been able to answer that question either. Of course, there are a number of factors to consider that the bill is addressed to a budget board before it is recommended. It would be interesting to know if this has been done with such a bill before. For example, you wonder, " Why do I have money transferred from year to year, why it's done in this way, and in itself I don't get an overview of it? ' Is there some task remains to be done, or what causes the move between years, these are often the same ones years after the year? We may have little opportunity to find out why this is so, so we are always discussing these matters long afterward, and nothing can be done to influence them. One of the substantial criticisms that I have made is the position of the Roadmaker. This bill shows that there are less than 2 billion people on the road modeling team. I wondered, " What was it postponed? ' That doesn't show up, and I'm sure you could take an answer from the Road Building. But it is also the negative position of the Roadmaker, i.e. negative bound your own money. For one thing, it is overlooked by a government accountant who reviews the balance that there are some 17.3 billion of his own money at the end of 2013 and already, as discussed here many times, to withdraw it from the donations made by Vega. I don't know that other institutions thought this to be a debt to the state, that the council truly had access to it, and that it made decisions about how to proceed, but it's made in this way. It is not responding to the National Retrospective on this subject. In a few cases, a limp is canceled without being convincing, there is not a general explanation. They may wonder why it is being done. I asked the highest. Minister before, and didn't get the answer, of the agreement between the head chair, under the bill to the end of the budget and state account, because it should, of course, confirm a bill of state. For more information, see page 5 of the book The Secret of God's Word. 75, including magazines on airports and airports service, that should be consistent. The budget said that this should have been taken into account in 2015, but not how to do it. Another example of differences is that employment insurance status is shown, for example, in a government account that bound its own money rather than on a head chair. There are many of these that are not received in the same way. I asked the Ministry about one of those teams on page. 76, owned by surgeon and Public Health Fund. There are differences because the metaphysics of the legislature are made up of a surgeon, yet they are a special financial body. It is only for those who have an intense interest or are able to do a lot of research in many of these teams. One of them is the Ministry of Economics and Economics. There's an aberration for the 12-402, the F.O.D. It included all the markets of the team's income at its time, and it was shown to be a better source and an increase in the position of the head. The budget had assumed that 92 million people would be kept in the treasure, so neither is harmony. Of course, it may be asked, " Is there no improvement, and there is a clearer understanding if abnormalities, such as the one I've traced, were resolved that they did not exist? ' I would have wanted a minister to answer that question earlier when I asked him about the follow-up documents 1 and 2, if he could see that there could be a different presentation, e.g. As I mentioned, to add one team, where you will see the downported sources and finals and the events moving along into the next year. It would also be interesting to know what does not apply, where the 10% rule does not apply, why, because it is not always clear in the text of these last funds. What I feel is mostly critical of the first episode is the phrase, whether it's final or otherwise, the financial bill is also very disagreeable and difficult to read about in it. It is bad to have to work out or ask questions in order to recognize the status of certain factors. I think there's a lot you could do to fix it without it being very complicated. Mr. President. I'm not gonna have this any further. I feel that it should be possible to make it clear and simple, so we can at least learn from what we are discussing. Although we cannot influence the amount of money or any of the items here, we might at least be able to do so. The new opportunity to go through why, whether it is always the same institutions or the same ones in a bill that is either falling off or moving beyond each year. I think that would increase the professional surveillance of the budget board.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u76	V.E.G. President. Just a brief introduction to the discussion because at the beginning of the discussion before it was delayed, this was a discussion of how we introduced various approved articles from the European Union through the EEA Convention. What may have been missing during that discussion and of course have to be very important is that this is the basis for the proposals established by the European Union in 2011 and 2012, then it is adopted by the EEA Commission, seems to me, in 2014, and is now adopted by the European Parliament. These are likely suggestions for considering and deciding how to submit them from 2008, 2009, or 2010, or somewhere long before they are presented. It has been taken up here at the council, which is very important that members of the Parliament get a review of the language being covered and are being placed in the European Union, as it is possible to exert significant influence on these matters. I think it is important that we try to be careful at exactly the level of reviewing each committee, for example, what to do in advance before the issue is finally settled from the EU or the EEA committee. Here is a case that will follow up with other suggestions, it is being agreed with a pact proposal for confirmation of a decision, then follow through on the legal bills and put in a further frame. Because I asked the highest. The foreign minister to whom the case would go, it will be like all these cases to the State Department, which is being discussed in the medical field, and it is extremely important that the matter be addressed to the welfare committee, which was confirmed by the highest level. Ministers that it is now customary for matters to be addressed to the professional committee as well. Although it is here to agree with the right to seek health care across borders, it is permitted to place a lot of rules and regulations, we can keep them strict, we can keep them very open, and there the Senate needs to have the opportunity to discuss it, and we need to be careful with our own legal procedures in order to ensure the implementation of the procedure in our own way. In general, I would like to comment on the proposals being given the rights for patients to cross-border health care that such agreements have the exact capacity for maintaining domestic health care, such as if waiting lists become too long, you can attend service abroad. If the quality is not sufficient, it can be attended abroad. Probably, as it has actually been evident between countries such as Britain and France, if I know correctly, people will be more careful, i.e. I'm trying to stop this from being used. They improve their ministry, ensure the quality of the ministry, and ensure a shorter list of requests so that you do not come to the point of going abroad except in some exceptional situation or in some more complex way to obtain a ministry. I wish it'd be the way it was before, because it came here. paritaprevir Pétur H. Blöndal and criticized that no more people would attend the discussion. Thus, the criticism is usually in the past. We can express our views, and then follow the case to a committee, but these issues are in a different way going to the committee to confirm such general order, then following it in a legal term and further development requiring much discussion and much discussion at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u77	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 88/2014 of change in XIII. Annex to the EEA transport agreement and enter the contract of three EU regulations which are detailed in the proposal itself. The measures set together as a common set of requirements for working as a road transport and access to markets for international transport and transport. It is then aimed at promoting efficient road transport and creating fair competitive conditions. The introduction calls for a local legal adjustment and is expected to require the necessary legislation for the implementation of the Regulations to be obtained in new primarys to legalize the transport of passengers on the land and on the other hand, for transport to land, which include removing the law of No. 73/2001, about the transport and cargo of land. The bills have already been submitted to the General Assembly, such as the issues of 503 and 504. Minister of the Interior to them yesterday. The introduction of two species is not expected to have a major impact in this country, since their range of values is limited when driving cross-borders. However, the setting will have some effect, and it will determine common rules in order to serve as a road transporter. As a result, Member States need to maintain an electronic record of companies who are doing road transport and who have received permission from the authorities, but the implementation and management of such files will be costing them. As the decision made by the joint EEA calls for a legal adjustment in this country, it was taken under administrative notice. Therefore, it is requested by the General's approval for the change in the EEA Convention in which the decision takes place so that the government will be removed foreordained. I propose, my honored President, after this discussion is followed by this suggestion. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u78	A respectable president. It's inevitable - when it's so good at hunting that this is the highest. Minister of Foreign Affairs for a discussion of EEA affairs precisely this week when many of his party members have been making declarations of both EEA regulations and the fact that the forwarding party has become irritated in the EEA, I think I speak the words of the council members correctly. Minister - to ask him if this applies also to the minister of foreign lands, whether he has become irritated with the EES. I'd also like to ask about the highest perspective. Environment Minister, that the Court's directives of the European Commission should be softened, what the minister's viewpoint is on the environmental minister's opinion, which I understood it had assigned officials of the Environment Ministry to carry out in some way. I ask if he thinks it is normal and whether there is anything in the text of this proposal or the one that was discussed earlier in the translation of the State Department's Office has been softened in some way before it was brought into the council. Or maybe the Minister is, like, a what? paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson, I was heard, strongly thinking, being also a member of the Congress team of advance, and thinking that equality is being cared for and that these directives are introduced in a natural way, but not something particularly mild?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u79	A respectable president. That answer, or what to call it in the dog. Perhaps a senator would have been at home in unprepared inquiries rather than with a discussion about the Congress resolution I was making. Nevertheless, I have received these questions, and I will try to answer them as best I can. That's how it is, and what it is. A senator knows, and I think an international body, that from the beginning of the EEA Convention, there have been very different opinions about that agreement, there is nothing new about it. There is nothing new in the fact that candidates have all sorts of opinions on this matter as well as others. However, the panel has not concluded that the EU contracts are not to be dismissed or anything like that and I don't know that there is a plan for anything like that, as this is our agreement today into the European Union's inner market. It's about whether the Minister is upset with the EEA agreement that he's not angry with him, but I'll agree with the view that it might be so that the actions and other things that come from the European Union into this EEA agreement can--it doesn't have to be a part of everything, let's put it this way. In fact, such views exist in the European Union as well. We see that it is the European Union's goal to reduce the rules, to reduce the number of types. I don't quite remember the numbers, but it reminds me that there's something going on that there's going to be a figure down from 160 a year to 100, something like that, so I'm really happy. It's really in the spirit of what I've been speaking to. Regarding the translation, the State Department translation center is doing very good things, they do well under intense pressure. There is nothing wrong, however, with people wondering whether or not to use words. This, for example, is from the translation center when considering whether or not the word should be used for the use of the word'sha·sha·do·dashʹ or 'as in the introduction or translation' of certain items. An analysis of how it would be performed was conducted. However, in the process of implementing these types, it is by itself that the Ministry of Justice administers them. [[The president calls.]] And there, wording can be used with creative thinking, as a fine man said.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u80	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for double-checking that as high as possible. Secretary of State is not frustrated with the European Economic Area Convention or by following it. But I must ask him, because of his last words about creative thinking: Is it that way to the highest? The minister of state thinks that it should try to reduce wording in the proposed and adopted directives that it should in some way change their meaning in translation and induction, that the Ministry has special scope to soften the directives made when given? I think it is very important that there is a complete report of the minister of foreign affairs to the problems whether they have any such creative space to soften the wording of the vessels in their handling. If that is the position of the Ministry and the fauna, it calls for a completely different handling of the proposals of those who come in from the government of the EEA, but have been here at the council where men have only trusted that these actions are introduced as they are put in motion, and in no particular creative way, by the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u81	A respectable president. Hv. A senator is talking about two things. On the one hand, it is referring to the translations involved in the types of translations that come in, or those, of the agreement that the translation center is about to translate and how that translation is introduced into Icelandic law. We have seen many times that the Ministry has room for textmaking and such on how certain factors are introduced into Icelandic legislation. We also have examples from the Foreign Affairs Committee, that she made comments and suggestions to change expressions, etc. to a song that is based on a specific type. So we're talking about two kinds of things here. Of course, when I talk about creative thinking, I refer to what we've done, including the one sitting here on a foreign press committee, and I'm well - known to be a man. By professional committees when we send these types there, comments on wording and other matters have been made. Of course, in the foundation, we have an obligation to achieve the objectives of the types we are taking in, but very often there is room in the text to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u82	Mr. President. I recommend a judicial hearing to minimise the use of plastic bags. The conclusion is: The General concluded to hide the Environment and Resource Minister in order to find ways to reduce plastic sachet use in this country. We choose a way to reach other European countries, where plastic bags have been effectively reduced. A plan will be published by March 1, 2015. Transporters, along with what we have here, are a reason. The members of Semidur Ingur, the Ingibjörg of Ingadóttir, the daughter of Katrín, the daughter of Júlíusdóttir, the Guðbjartur of Hannesson, Össur the son of Skarphéðinsson, Bjarkey the daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, the Sigríður of Pétursdóttir, the Birgitta of Jónsdóttir, the daughter of Birgit, the Líneik Sævarsdóttir Savarst, and Elín Hirst. As the president notices, this is a parapolitic solidarity. I only want to review a report with the proposal: During the past few decades, there has been a great awakening to the social environment of environmental protection and recovery. Intensification of information flows and technologicalisation has greatly increased the recycling of used dressings. At the 143th legislature, Margrét Gauja Magnúsdóttir, deputy member of the United States, was the first member of the Parliament's resolution to investigate the practicality of reducing plastic bags use in this country. Following the discussion of the proposal, tourists feel the need to take action in this respect. It is well - known that plastic bags and other plastic containers of food and chemical products will have a negative impact on the environment. Plastic increases the demand for oil and slowly breaks down in the wild. It is estimated that, on average, each individual in the European Union uses some 500 plastic bags a year, most of them only once. In 2008, 3.4 million tons of plastic bags were produced in the European Union. The national waste management programme for 20133/42024 shows that approximately 70 million plastic bags are disposed of each year in this country, some 1,120 tons. To produce this number of bags, you need some 2,240 tons of oil. Light plastic bags are generally not used more than once, but they may be hundreds of years old, often in the form of tiny plastic particles that can be harmful to nature to form for the marine environment. In this way, ocean currents have embalmed plastic particles from plastic bags and other items of huge skins in the Pacific, the Atlantic, and the Indian Ocean. Plastrus in the ocean may also have a substantial cost of plastic disposal that is entangled in fishing instruments, screws, etc. It is estimated that 8 billion plastic bags in the trash in Europe end annually, resulting in serious environmental consequences. Simple measures may have a significant impact on the environment over a long period of time. Any plastic bag that skimmers into the wind can be opened to a long, dramatic event that would not have started if further emphasis had been placed on preventive measures at the beginning. To prevent these trends, several European countries have taken measures such as bans or taxation of plastic bags to reduce their amount and thereby reduce their impact on the environment. In this respect, Ireland, Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium, Switzerland, and Italy can be especially pointed to. If other countries followed their advice, the use of plastic bags could be significantly reduced on the EEA region. It should be noted that it has already been decided to start working on changing European legislation to address the problems created because of the high amount of plastic bags used. It's supposed to be a celebration. The changes under the EEA Convention, which will be implemented in this country, aim for European countries to take action to reduce the use of plastics in each country. Then each country can choose different ways to achieve this goal, such as paying expenses for its use, setting national targets for contraction in plastic bags, or strictly prohibiting such use. The website of the Environment and Resource Ministry shows that the changes are expected to be in accordance with the European Union Directive on packaging and packaging waste introduced by the EU Convention. Thus states will initially be obliged to take action in order to reduce the use of plastic bags diluted in excess of 50 micrograms. Such bags are less used than plastic bags and are likely to end quickly as waste. It was followed by extensive consultation with the general public that a rich will is being taken to correct the plastic bag problem and the representatives of the Parliament's decision to act immediately on national measures in order to reduce the use of plastic bags. A respectable president. I propose that the Parliament's resolution proposal be discussed on the environment and transport committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u83	A respectable president. I take a silent course to make a few comments about a council proposal. paritaprevir Oddný new G. Harðardóttir daughter to reduce plastic bags usage. This is a subject that has been discussed in many places. For example, various rural groups have set their goals to reduce plastic bags use, to build plastic bags for days, and I remember as much as I had seen such reports from Hafnarfnarfjördur and Garður, which had the slogan Temda bag, if I remember correctly, and a remarkable story I saw last year I saw that Rwanda had decided to become a plastic-free land, a plastic-bag of Rwanda. It is not an area that you necessarily associate with such conflict, so it is widely tore and discuss. True, it is true, it is a large amount of plastic bags and most of them, as shown in the case before. paritaprevir It's a brand-new Harðardóttir daughter. They're new for once. These plastic bags are not used too much. On the other hand, I believe that it is true that the comments on a similar subject from what was said. the local senator Gauja Gauju Magnúsdóttir, who was suggested to evaluate the use of plastic bags with the intention of reducing it, it is also important that we consider options. We know that the plastic bags are poorly broken down in the environment, and this is the environmental impact of these bags. What has to be done is a complete review of this process, i.e. how plastic bags are produced, what the environmental impact of this production is, and how it compares with other options. I have personally been a big talker to switch to a bag, but it has been shown that it takes a lot of time for you to be successful in environmental impacts. Of course, they will come back if we simply take the plastic bags out and everyone goes to a bag. The results are likely to be obtained, but the point is that during the presence of plastic bags and the bags are forgotten at home, the effects of the need to be assessed instead of the plastic bags and other items. This is something that would be interesting. The Environment and Transport Committee would be in their discussion. I sure hope so, considering that this matter has been a significant subject for discussion, both in the local community and in general politics. The committee will discuss the matter and review these factors so that we can achieve the desired results. I noticed that there was a client in charge of a suggestion. the local senator Gauja Gauju Magnúsdóttir did not come from the environmental sector, mainly from rural communities that have adopted or been involved in this field, but also came up with reviews from the Union of Icelandic rural society and village, where questions were raised. So it would have been very interesting to also get comments from Land Protection and other environmental sources who have considered these issues. I expect the Environment and Transport Committee to consider this. This suggestion is the smell of much larger discussions that promote consumption and waste in society. We are now participating in the national food waste project, a remarkable project that has been identified as throwing up a third of food in the European Union. Iceland is expected to live in line with the European Union state in this respect. Another phenomenon that is closely related to the diet waste is the so - called fashion waste, i.e. People buy a large amount of clothing that may be rarely new, fall for buying five jeans at three or something, do not think of the environmental costs that have occurred in the production of the garment, any circumstances in which workers produce these garments, which are often extremely poorly worn, as we have seen in news, with the result that many people die in an utterly unacceptable situation in producing cheap fashion clothing for Western citizens. It's all the smell of the same discussion that attracts a pattern of consumption. I'm pretty sure everybody's down there. People know the feeling of opening a kitchen cabinet and falling out some plastic bag mountain, so you buy something, and you take home in a plastic bag you put in your closet, and then, as indicated here, that plastic bag is never used again. Even so, and hopefully, take it to recycling, but do not dump it in the public waste when cleaning up once a year in the closets. This is a smell of this consumption pattern, where more and more are constantly purchased without necessarily needing it and without taking into account the overall impact on the environment, without considering that the supplies we leave behind with this consumption. I welcome the proposal presented here. I notice that here are co-ordinates from all categories, so I would have expected this proposal to get started at the council in view of the fact that behind it is a parapolitic support, but I think it's important, as I say, that when we discuss these matters, we do it in the big context, that we are aware that our aim is to reduce the knowledge we leave behind us. Therefore, it is important to review the comments given in the reviews on the overall environmental effects of the plastic bags and then to take progressive steps thereafter to achieve the desired results. I have no doubt that it will be done at all. The committee and the hope for it indeed. It is suggested here that a plan of action be published by March 1, 2015. He's in a week, so I don't expect that date to pass, but I hope this date will be approved at this council so that we can see a significant step this year. It would be enjoyable and wish that we could go to more litigation classes of these matters with the same attitude.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u84	A respectable president. On the other hand, I recommend a synonym to consider the practicality of train transport between the Gulf Airport and Reykjavík on the other hand and a light - reading system in the capital area. The benefits of this transport and defects will be explored, as well as possible. Social costs and benefits, as well as economics, environmental and organizational effects will be considered in the spirit of sustainability. It is called for experts both within the country and outside, while the results are likely to be in the mid-year of 2015. I'm moving along with the rest of the motion. Councilmen of Svandís Svavarsdóttir, Silja Dögg Djög Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, Fearari Proppér, Karl Garðarsson, and Oddný G. Harðardóttir. The proposal was previously made to the 143th legion of the Árni by Þór Sigurðsson, son of Sigur, but it did not grow old and reassign it. During the last legislation, the following report was followed by the document covering various aspects of the matter. The big thing is, mine may know primarily that this year's December meeting will be held in Paris, where a new understanding of how we can reduce greenhouse gas emissions is planned. Iceland has been fortunate to be relatively lucky about house - to - house warming and other things and have been able to use renewable energy, but we also see that transport, outside the big business, is the community that is responsible for most greenhouse gas emissions. Then I'm missing the big business. Of course, it's got more emissions than transportation, so I'm both in the air, in the air, and in the uterus, you'd probably say. Therefore, it is important to be able to meet the objectives of reducing greenhouse gas emissions to focus especially on transport and how to achieve further steps to reduce emissions in that area. A figure has been designed to make up an improved supply of fuel in the fishing fleet. In addition, there have been ideas of energy exchange at that level, but we have seen significant developments in the use of fuel sources other than conventional fuel sources in what we can call these traditional personal transport. This does not change, as the report shows, that in the capital area, for example, the suggestion is, of course, that this is a car property with the world's most important thing. For example, when we compare ourselves with other cities in the North countries, you can see a completely different pattern of transportation here than there, even though it has only been turning around in recent years as I have studied, i.e. The number of people who travel on a bicycle has grown - at a more realistic level - but at the most, automobile property has become available. If we look back in time, even though the past few years also caused some fluctuations, the number of people who use public transportation has been reduced in order to travel from place to place. This is despite the fact that the rural communities have made various efforts to improve the services of the Continental Coast. But we have seen a specific increase in the number of passengers there, perhaps some of which are linked to the changing economic conditions of people, but also also in the fact that the road has been taken, especially since an agreement was made between the state and the city of Reykjavík to place extra money in public transportation, to improve the service, to increase the frequency of travel that has had an enormous impact on whether this is a practical option for the population. However, it is sobering to consider that of the city's defined urban population, about half are subject to transportation, parking lots, and streets. Of course, that is not a very viable environment. Here's an interesting subject for the Manhattan Island of New York City, where several million people live and work, is little less than inhabited by the land of Reykjavík. This is a thought - provoking thought - provoking point for us who are interested in the development of the urban organization, and it has been widely discussed in urban development. A concentration, of course, is one key to running public transportation. As for the trains then, it seems almost to be injected into us Icelanders, from the time Einar Benediktsson experimented with railway construction, that it's nothing for us, these railroads, it's no good in Iceland. Yet, this does not change the desire of some to look into these matters. Among the things that have happened are the ideas of an instant train between Reykjavík and Cheflavík. This project could cost some 100 billion dollars. According to the group that developed that idea. This would significantly alter transportation between Reykjavík and Keflavík, since the train would go between 15 and 20 minutes, but it could be either a magnetic or an electrical train. Those who have been considering this project too, except for Reykjavíkurburg, are the Union in Southnes, the Cheflavour Airport Development Society, the Landsbank, Isa, and Isavia. I believe this reconnaissance work puts these issues on schedule again and again. Of course, this has been quite a talk. I can mention that I did a case as deputy councilman during the scheduled period of 2002◯2006, which was one of the tore. At that time, the benefits of this light - reading system within the capital were examined, not from Reykjavík to Cheflavík, especially because we have examples of this from other European cities of similar size as the capital area where such systems have given us a well - motivated, well - adjusted pattern of transportation. True, it may be, as noted here, that since the train has been recorded, there has been a large increase in public transportation. This has greatly reduced the pressures of the general trajectory, has increased emissions in the whole transport system, and has attracted users who previously did not take advantage of buses, especially because of positive image and more security and dependability. Of course, the environmental benefits are obvious. I think it's normal to put this into context, i.e. On the other hand, a light - reading system within the capital area and a train between Reykjavík and Cheflavík. The construction of a small - mile - off network in the main organization has not been anticipated, so I know that after attending a meeting in which the voters of Reykjavík, U.S.A., they were allowed to sit with citizens in Reykjavík that this is an option that people would be interested in taking a closer look at. I think the General should come together with local government officials and set up a study like that. This proposal is primarily about the fact that all concerned persons, i.e. Ministers of the state, communities, and organizations meet at the same level to explore this possibility into the skin of the fall. That may be what has been lacking so far, that everyone sits at the same table looking at this possibility. It's been investigated here, there, and introduced, and so tore, a little bit with them wondering that it's not practical. However, I believe we must look for ways to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and do so without reducing the capacity of the transport system. This may also be an important factor in convening the settlements that are in the official direction of the city of Reykjavík, i.e. to densely build up to reduce land space for transport and, in effect, improve the quality of life of the population. Unfortunately, after studying these matters now, mainly as a public citizen, and I'm no expert on this field, I have to say that when you look at U.S. automobile cities, Detroit is the most famous example where 2.5 million people lived, now living about 600 thousand people. Like what? Councilmen know those who have examined the abandoned pictures directly point to that city and say: Certainly, the economy there had much to do with it, but do not forget that part of the problem is that the city was being built by highways that cremated into many little pieces and made it impossible to travel between places except on a car, making great class distinctions disintegrating in the city, and she simply withered up and died. Organizationalism can certainly affect whether cities live or die. I would also like to point out that cities are becoming increasingly influential in our future decisions. What cities do to produce these climate goals I mentioned earlier is of utmost importance. Therefore, I believe it is normal for the government to sit at this table, along with local authorities, as mentioned earlier, and institutions to make an assessment of how practical this is, what would be environmental benefits when it comes to, not only greenhouse gas emissions, but also the development of dense development. This is not only about having a powered train that does not release greenhouse but also reducing the number of cars on the streets, reducing the number of people traveling alone in the car throughout the capital area, and looking at social benefits that might include shortening the time between Reykjavík and Cheflavík. We all know what it's like to go in between. At least every time I get on the nice bus and get back and forth, I think that it would be fun to be able to molecularly slaughtered, or at least to shorten that travel time in some way. And also look at its social benefits, I come back to the easy - reading system in the capital area, i.e. that less space be used for the future transport activities. Then there's the economic aspect. It is clear that a huge price tag has been placed on a train between Reykjavík and Cheflavík, 100 billion, that is, like, 20 times more. What, though, do we have in the capital area a number of offenses? We might, for example, flirt at counting them and wondering how much they cost and whether we can adopt a similar view. I don't know. I haven't judged this case in advance or where it might come from. On the other hand, I have strong faith that this is an option we should carefully consider. But I have strong conviction that he will not be fully investigated unless the government and the local government meet together to complete that survey. I also have the conviction that we must call out to those who have the knowledge and experience outside the rocks, see how they came about. While we haven't finished the necessary basic work to take sides, I don't think it's possible to take the idea off the table. I think it's a good reason we put this in a professional process and then make an informed decision on how we're going to arrange transportation in the capital area. Of course, this is also related to the transport of the capital area at the Cheflavour Airport, where tourists are constantly landing there to attend this country. This involves how we receive them and what transportation we have to transport tourists from one place to another. So it's a big deal, not only from environmental viewpoints but also from the social. I put this case here in the fall and I've waited a long time to make a recommendation. There seems to be some policy here that Congress issues will be taken up by the end of the day, one from each category. I would have said, "Why don't we just take a day under Congress sometime, and there would be a pretty refreshing change in the program of the council. " But okay. I'm glad that I'm going to recommend this by the end of February after I laid it down until the autumn months. However, it would be best for the matter to be treated materially. I hope, in view of the fact that here are members of Congress, not all classes, but at least several categories of the case, that there will be a material discussion at which time. The Environment and Transport Committee allows us to take a material position to see if we are ready. It does not mean that it involves making an effort to investigate it in the cooperation of all the parties involved. That's all I have to say, a respectable president, but I suggest that this case, because we're discussing here committees, to be referred to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u85	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this complete approach to an important matter. I really don't think we're going to lose any of this possibility. And because of what? A senator mentioned Einar Ben's interest. In the past, a train should be built east of a mountain, so research on that train gave us a road through the Þrengs and the contrasts that were once unknown and that were much cooler than the road across the wilderness, so it should not be a cause for alarm. I understand the plans for a train from Keflavík to Reykjavík so that it will be on business grounds and that, in this case, the value of the land released in the Hydromes will not be calculated as the savings of not having to run two airports with this interway, not counting the savings for travel time, national benefits etc. I'm asking why. Senator: Is that not an essential part of making an effort to make this effort that the state would come in a handsome way to establish its investors because their rural communities are not in great supply for it? Is it not true that there are many benefits for the state and state in terms of currency expenditure, conquests, and national benefits of various kinds that the State would receive against such donations? Isn't that how much money the State puts into this infrastructure of public transportation in the countries around us that we would like to compare ourselves with?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u86	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the question. Certainly, it is so, not just in this case, but so often when we discuss major matters here on the council, that the national impact needs to be examined. Then I'll give a good witness. A senator mentioned the cost of the environment, the land space, and other things that we may not always include when talking about the cost of construction. It is true that it is not at the expense I mentioned earlier on a train ride between Reykjavík and Keflavík. But there is a need to determine whether it could be a national economic economic investment. I remember the last time we discussed the changes in Icelandic student law that suggested that some loans become strong. True, it was the cost of the state, but likely indiscriminate national savings, the gains that are difficult to make, and we, the management board, have not been able to spend much of our time calculating it. Of course, in this case it would have to be done. If this is to be a matter of consideration for the national cost-effective work, the practicality for environment and society, I would, of course, believe that it would be a government to perform some kind of operation between Reykjavík and Keflavík. It could not be the local community to look forward, since this is, of course, a highway and the most important transportation into the country, so, of course, the government would have to be looked to for such an investment for a long time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u87	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer and rejoices that these things are being watched in context, i.e. Stable public transportation here in the capital and then between the capital and the airport. In fact, I think we should view the whole landscape of Ingólfur more and less as one area in this. But it is important for them to move people to the transport routes leading to the airport, to have transportation here in the city. So I ask: Is it solely intended to look at easy - reading systems or to keep people in mind, which we know has been placed in a small larger urban area, e.g. In Malmö, some time ago? It seems to be an increasingly practical option for smaller cities to attack such infrastructure. But because we talk about transport at the airport, and we now know that the head of the committee proposed to be referred to is a special authority on the airport field, I ask: If you can find a practical and useful way to shorten the travel time from Reykjavík to Cheflavík with so much as any evidence in that way, could that not be a real solution to the delicate issue that has now divided the number of parties in the country for years, which is exactly the cause of Reykjavíkian airports and internal international airports?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u88	A respectable president. First, I would like to mention that the suggestion goes out on easy - to - read systems and that other orbits, such as the subway, are, of course, viewed as quite comfortable travel. There is nothing in itself that prevents the decision to extend it. I imagine, however, that there is a considerably more expensive project, an cost of stock, in view of the fact that it would require an opinion as to whether this area in the capital area would live under such factors. A light - reading system is considered a more realistic option for inhabitants of this population. On the other hand, I agree with it as a dog. A senator says that when he speaks of Ingolf's Ingólfur, and in fact, it can be said of the great southwest corner, we can also talk about the White River to the White River, perhaps it's Ingolf's Ingólfur; I just need to review the Land Study Book and Island Book to get it completely out of my mind. From the White River to the White River, we can say, it's become one business area. There, people travel to and from work without hesitation. Hence, it would not be impossible to examine some whole - souled transport system in this area if one would like to make such a serious decision. We have seen that after the efforts of public transportation by the government and the rural community, the number of those who choose to use public transportation has grown to form from Seleucus to Reykjavík, from Citynes to Reykjavík, and, of course, the other way too. It is a pleasure to observe how that project has changed the appearance of public transportation and public attitudes to use public transportation in this way in longer travel.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u89	A respectable president. I come here to add my weight to the scales, let's say, and recommend what has come to be said, in fact, I'm one of the representatives in the case. I want to thank you. paritaprevir For a good, extensive, public talk, Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, can agree with all of that talk. I just wanted to add a few more points, perhaps to some extent, because it's shorter since I was a city councilman. The members of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter and Helgi Hjörvar, only shorter since a man was in charge of the capital area and the transportation here. I wanted to go a little deeper into the development of the capital area. It is important to think that things will change in a short time, even here in Iceland. We experience the city of Reykjavík as if it had been for so long, but the fact is that since 1985, or about the time of the city's construction, the capital area has doubled, i.e. the capital area has doubled since 1985. The situation today is that a third of Iceland's population lives in Reykjavík and 2/3 in the capital area. The capital area, although it is not one area and perhaps less than many other areas of the country, and the economy of the capital area, is at least the major driving force in the Icelandic economy. It may be understandable that there is a certain tendency here that relatively little time is spent discussing the development of the capital area, compared with discussions about the development of the country as well as other areas. That's why I'm celebrating every occasion to enter the local city situation. Hv. The first - speaking Katrín of Jakobsdóttir introduced only the changes that have been made in the capital area. It is inevitable to follow the population growth in the area in recent decades as well as the expansion of the area, as I say, the capital area has doubled since 1985. At the last measurement, 48% of the land area went to the fort, i.e. streets, parking lots, etc. More and more time for the people of the capital area are traveling around. This is a measure of the quality of life of these people, and this is not sustainable. This is increasing pollution. This adds to particulates that have become a major problem in some parts of the city. Of course it's socially expensive. This wastes a lot of imported fuel. More and more travel increases the incidence of accidents that are once again nationally expensive, etc. All the developments involved in increasing public transport in the capital area are not just national economic efficiency but also the more measurable quality of life to the citizens of the capital area of 2/3 parts of the country. Thus, there is much work to do. I just wanted to look at the other end of the motion, the idea of examining the construction of trains between the capital area and the Gulf Airport. I'd like to take a look at it a little bit from the tourist industry. The Cheflavík airport is no longer our portal for foreigns, to the rest of the world, but also the main mystery of Iceland's visitors, and, in fact, the basis for all the tourism industry that has now become the largest industry in the country. You sometimes hear about the tourist industry in Iceland being some type of bubble that is about to stop. Indeed, it has been seen in other countries that have become large tourist attractions that have reduced tourism. Usually some sort of disturbance, political instability, war, natural disasters, or such things have taken place. It seems to be a law when it comes to the popular location, although it goes up and down, for a long time. I think it's very important for us in all structure, as we examine our systems, that we assume that the tourism industry is not just another more sustainable process that is approaching. In a discussion about the situation of the tourist industry, especially now in the winter, it can be said that all our systems, including the Cheflavor airport and the connection to the host space and the capital area, are actually broken. When Leifs son of Erik was opened in 1987, there was a heated dispute in this hall over whether the airport wasn't too big, that we wouldn't last a lifetime to use all that space. Since then, we have, in effect, been in an ever - increasing process and cannot see the end of it. So all such connections, shortening travel time and adding transportation to the Chefavík area, are very important. This is important today and will be even more important in a few years. I just wanted to come in at the expense, too. The figure is 100 billion on such projects, which are certainly a lot of money and high amounts of money, but as a foundation on which the capital area 2/3 billion lives, and on the other hand, the largest industry in the economy, 100 billion are actually such an investment. I'd like to remind the Senate before I quit here for a few projects. The human memory differs, but those who remember how impossible it was to accomplish it before it became reality, how awesomely large and expensive it was, and that it was indeed something that would never happen in our lifetime, but it happened now. I remind you of the U.S. Landphone set up around 1905. I remind you of the round road that opened in 1974. I recall in Reykjavík, a crew built in 1913,1915. I remind myself of a Halfground tunnel opened in 1998, the City Hospital that opened 1930. All of this was an enormous project, much bigger than the people thought it would ever need. Most of these are being carried out and opened up during times of trouble in Icelandic history and in the economy. But I don't think anyone starts arguing that all of these projects worked out for the good and that they've all proved to be different ever since.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u90	A respectable president. The list of these major projects can naturally be added to Leifs son of Erik as a man only a relatively few years ago, all, too large, but it is indeed broken. It is true that the senator's community, which is often discussed in the council sales, is the major community - based issue in the capital area where 2/3 parts of the country live, and the infrastructure here, of course, is crucial to our competitiveness in foreign lands. Because the Senator is, as he reasoned, recently arrived from the city council, I would like to ask him if he was not properly understood by me that there is a complete basis for such massive infrastructure in the capital complex of public transportation, whether it was light-reading or transportation at Keflavík or other such things, that both within the city and between rural communities in the capital area would be a very important requirement for the State to come to that structure, capitalism, and if not altogether, at least for the rest of the capital. to a large extent, because of the inability of rural society under existing circumstances to pay the stock investment which is certainly not going to be returned in fares, at least not here in town, rather than at the bus station.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u91	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. I can say with what. A member of the council that there are all odds that it would at least speed up the matter and make it possible for the state to come in handsomely. I think that is actually consistent with the way we make roadways in the capital area right now. The road and the state are running a large part of a platform in the capital area, and indeed, over the last few years, which is very enjoyable and has introduced handsomely into public transport, as well as the structure of a foot - and - wheel - footing footing system in the capital area. That's a good thing. I think some of the capital area has been left out in the biggest revolutions and conflicts that have been involved in the road in Iceland for the last 15 to520 years. It may not be strange, since we have been focusing on a major road system in the country. There is no question in my mind that we have produced a urban community where land space is no longer infinite, and any changes that make the region of precious land also release a vast amount of value that could be envisioned to be used in such structure.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u92	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. It is true that the senator points out that, of course, it is the state that invests in the footways of the capital area, such as the country, and that is also natural for public transportation. Sadly, until the last term, the State has been rather reluctant to contribute money to public transport. We've recently seen official coverage of the practicality of transport between air stations and Reykjavík, and its sizes are known. I suppose that since I was in the mayor's office at least again, track - transport options were reexamined in the city, whether as light - read or as some other seams. I want in. A senator according to what observations have been made on such possibilities for the city, especially the easys. Is that something recent, and can he teach us what came out of it? Has it been the city's view that what would first be realistic in that subject or that would be realistic in this regard were some kind of easy - to - read transportation, or are there other advantages to be considered? And also where the organizational point is, whether such founding methods have been expected in itself, since if it has not started or has been decided, the first step, of course, is to assume the long - term possibility of an organization. Has it been done?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u93	A respectable president. It is most recently reported that plans have not been completed, however, in cooperation with or in preparation for the main organization in Reykjavík, which was adopted in the past year, and the main planning of more rural communities in the capital area, and now regional development in the capital area, has been under way. It has been done to avoid shutting down train connections in the centre of Reykjavík and Chefavik so that an area where such a train would have to pass would not have to be built for or closed. In fact, this work is still going on, and I'm aware that by the Association of the Civil Society in the capital area, we are being examined and that we have been examined in cities in other countries and in the countries around us. In this case, people are open to inspect easy - to - read systems, and even to study the subway system, although they are probably a bunch of animals for not much larger areas, but also systems that are pushing to bed, especially in smaller cities in South America, but also in other countries, which are a kind of bus - reading system, i.e. The network of buses that drive in the special lanes and stop at specific locations in the same way as trains, but still live in cars. These systems are much less expensive in both installation and operation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u94	A respectable president. First, I wanted to thank you for putting this matter on the council program. Of course, our most important challenge in the major context in Iceland is to look for ways to reduce the environ ment we have called, i.e. reduces the pollution and the environmental costs of our lives, our activities, and our day - to - day lives. Sadly, if everyone on earth acted the way we Iceland do, we would need neither more nor less than 10 earths, 10 rocks with ten times the resources available on the one earth we have to live on. And to make sure that the earth becomes sustainable, countries living ahead in the natural sense of the environment need to reduce their environmental impact and seek all ways to stay within the limits set by Mother Earth. Public transport is an important factor in contributing to the environmental impacts of transport, especially greenhouse gas emissions. Public transport also has many other social factors, they are also part of a well - organized community, a society that is efficient, where organization makes it easy to reach its way, and there are potential benefits for people to live and work in an inexpensive and practical way. Being a powerful public transportation system is an important part of that quality of life. It was spoken only earlier in the discussion of different ways, including the following: Light trains, trains to Keflavík, subways. I think what's good about this suggestion is that the movers assume they're calling everyone to the table. I think we, 0.3 billion. human society, can't allow us to operate on a project of this magnitude, if it were to be the result, different so that we've made sure that all of us are involved, and we're making the most of all the energy we have to do it. Once, they play together as a team. They are important, not only in rural areas, but also in terms of government, they are relevant to rural society, they are relevant for jobs and businesses, and different types of transportation need to work together. The example of an airport train is natural, one we know from many of our neighboring countries that has been growing more and more. As a result, air travel is improved by strengthening planning for airports and paying way to and from airports, thus working with different types of transportation as a team. What was mentioned earlier on the subway is then an excellent example of the same fact because I think it is reported that we are not yet there to make investments in the structure of a subway system, as much money as is built up as such. I think that at least urban areas that have attacked such structures are still Malmö, with nearly 500 thousand inhabitants, and there still are in the capital area only about a third hundred thousand inhabitants, so it is likely that there is a higher possibility that there is a higher possibility for us to examine here. But for a long time, it was considered impossible to take subways to urban areas that would be less than 1 million, and now it is down to half a million, and it will probably be available for a community that has a quarter of a million dollars like this in the capital area. But that's what I think is longer in the future. On the other hand, there are opportunities that are associated with just what we have been doing in recent years, and that is a process. Of course, humans have developed ways, and as soon as they work at a practical level, they have arranged for track transport to do the same work. In fact, the additional cost of transportation is the additional. I think it's normal for a person to look at it in connection with a building in the capital area. It will become more and more part of the program as traffic gets bigger and the people are growing, and this economic and employment area is growing stronger and stronger, which we all hope to achieve. There will be more and more calls for a tunnel in the capital area, and there are ways that public transportation can be used at the same time. I have always felt that making specific transportation between the capital and Chefavik would be a limited step to reach because people will always reach the point here in the capital, i.e. They'll pick up the passengers and get them in place, and if there's not enough public transportation in the city, they're in the car and they're off. We can see it in cities around us where good transportation has developed to the airports, whether we watch Arlanda, Sweden, to the Heathrow Airport, to the Castrup Airport in Copenhagen or to other places where Iceland and I are most likely to make our way. There has been the first development of a transport transport system within the urban area, and then, once there is a transport route to the urban transportation system, the urban population strengthens and improves transport from that system to the airport. That is why I find it a special cause for me to see that aspect in context, i.e. the possibility of developing these light - moving movements over a longer period of time, whether there was one line over the most extensive route in the capital area or some wider system that would then reconnect with transportation to Chefavik and allow people to use both. To look at this together, I think it is particularly interesting now that the original results have been made from a person's study of the practicality of transport between Reykjavík and Keflavík and the airport. I've been watching these matters for a while, and we even went. in a fairly detailed survey from Reykjavíkurburg on the possibilities for this at the turn of the century, in the year 2000. We were made up of our manager or executive director of the large international transport company of Althom, which came to most of the major train projects by the end of the century, including the new trains that men started to park in the United States, Portland, arrived at the Heathrow train, in Arlanda, and other major projects. It is surprising, of course, that the primary results of a sports study on sports transport on this route, Reykjavík to Cheflavík, can pay on business grounds, i.e. ... thecauses of the passengers that go in between. This is not to assume that two international airports would not have to be run as short as it is with Reykjavík and Cheflavík and that it would not be expected to take advantage of the land in the Aquifers to anything other than the airport but to pay for business purposes. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u95	A respectable president. I make a suggestion for a hearing about the delay of the clock and the bright morning. Transporters with me, Páll Valur Björnsson's son are why. Councilmen Guðmundur Steingrímsson, Róbert Marshall, Björt Ólafsdóttir, Brynhildur Pétursdóttir, and Óttarr Proppé, from Bjartts'future. I am delighted to list more of those from other categories, the family of Björður Bjarnadóttir from the United States, the Valgerður of Gunnarsdóttir's Daughter of Independence, Frosti Sigurjónsson of the Future, and Jón Þór Ólafsson and Birgitta's Jónsdóttir of Pirates. It is new to suggest that all groups should be associate members. It reads: The General concluded to hide the government from delaying the clock in Iceland about an hour. The choice will be the right time to engage in the operation, within one year of the approved proposal, after a properly prepared public presentation in society and preparation. This proposal was previously made at the 139th legislature, with No. 379, and the 143th legislature, No. 197, but no material discussion. Based on the sun's start, Iceland has the wrong record. Since 1968 the clock in Iceland has been set for summer hours throughout the year, allowing it to be an hour of overcrowded land, leading to a delay in light exchange, both in dawn and in the evening. So the sun is the best in the land, e.g. in Reykjavík, at noon. 13.30 and east, e.g. In the fields of Egil, a half hour earlier, would be there at noon if the land belonged to the right time zone. If the clock were to be permanently delayed by one hour, as expected by this suggestion, the sun in Reykjavík would normally be at half an hour and at the Egress at 12 different locations. Summertime gives us a brighter night in the summer, but the cost of sacrifice is that in the winter winter, lighttime in the morning would decrease by more than six weeks because we would not take the clock back to wintertime. As a result of this error in Iceland, most Icelanders probably recognize the bitter sense of waking up to work or school in the dark of much of the year. Actually, Iceland still has a night off the sun's corridor when Icelanders go to work at eight or 8:30 a.m. for the current clock. If the clock is delayed by one hour, however, the mornings will be bright until November, and they will return to light in the latter part of January. The sun rises more often before the people with its rightful light. The number of dark mornings is greatly reduced. The present period of time is reduced by information that the clock uses to coordinate the body's activities on the basis of the day and night's needs. The situation may be likened to jet lags that travel over a few time zones, except for the persistence of this situation among us Icelanders during the wintertime of the year, which is called the passing of a clock. This condition leads to impaired sleep and increases the risk of health problems, such as obesity, diabetes, and cardiovascular disease, as many recent studies have shown. It has been found that adolescents are particularly susceptible to any disturbance in this regard. Young men wake up tired in the morning, end the night, and enjoy the less of the day on hand. Wrong written clock can have a powerful effect on reducing the concentration of students and others. Studies show a correlation between sleep impairment and learning success. The winter and autumn depression, which is most often associated with early autumn and winter depression, is bad for seasonal depression. This is thought to be related to a decrease in daylight exposure and a disturbance in the body clock. If this suggestion to correct the clock in Iceland comes true, it could no doubt help us to improve our condition and adjust our sleeping habits. This could even save expenses in the health system. In this regard it can be noted that Icelanders use much more sleep and antidepressants than our neighbors do. Of course, the proposal, if it is approved, leads to the changed Iceland time separation against neighboring countries. Time differences decline by one hour between Iceland and America but increase by one hour between Iceland and other European countries. The technological age cannot be seen that this need to have a significant impact on Iceland's trade and communication with abroad. From the point of view of shipping, it is important that Iceland's time be recorded correctly, thus preventing the discrepancies that persist in the local and body clock, the clock being exhausted, but Iceland does not log time incorrectly for other reasons. Most important, the time in Iceland is registered according to the state of the country on the globe. We transporters do not rule out that the processing of the proposal will also indicate that the clock will be delayed only during wintertime and that summertime, like in many countries, will be summertimetime, to meet more sun views in the afternoon. That's what we've always said. We're open to all this. It has also been observed earlier in the discussion, we also made this proposal during our last assembly, that this may be a very desirable national legal matter. When I was assigned to be a 1st messenger to this suggestion, I cleaned up and called the principal outside of the country, investigating their feelings for this suggestion, and whether it might be better, as suggested by students, for school, if it would have a positive effect on them. I don't know if it's a coincidence, but everybody said yes, it would make a lot of difference. When I spoke to school directors and school students in many places, it showed that it would change everything if we were late for an hour and started school in 8:30. That would put the perfect example in our hands. All of us are familiar with what we have with young ones, what it's like to get children up in the morning. It is often very difficult. I had never thought of this before we began to shape this suggestion. You don't even think about it, but then when you start to wonder, you realize how much it has to say. For example, I've done it here in the symposium, that I was in Los Angeles, U.S.A., about the last Christmas, where it's set right and you just feel the difference. It's so simple. I remember that when we made this proposal and it came up for discussion and was on the news for the year's date, it was published, I remember it was on the mlb.is, taken from the Kopavogs Bridge. What was the difference between 9 and more than 8? This made people wonder if they could be right. I'd also like to mention that in the White Book of Education Ministers speaking of school leavings, there is one of the main reasons why students attend the school that tells us a little bit about the possibility that these proposals could change things. As noted earlier, the suggestion has been given before a material discussion. We refer to the welfare committee now, but it has previously been referred to the General and Education Committee, because we believe that this proposal is primarily a matter of public health that is aimed at improving the health and benefit of everyone in the country. That's key. This is not to say that we in a bright future can sleep longer in the morning, as stated in one of the reviews. A significant number of comments were received on this subject last, and among them, one said that we were doing it just so that we could sleep longer in the morning. It's not like that at all, I just want to correct that misunderstanding. So I don't think that this is only going to be a success, and I hope that this case, as with any case presented in Congress, will be well established, in a material way, and will be taken care of. If it wants to work, it's just a vote. That's as far as it goes. It's just the democratic means that the proposal will be made here. I really hope that this matter will receive a material discussion and that it will be resolved by a committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u96	V.E.G. President. I'd like to add a few words and participate in a debate over the Senate resolution of the Supreme Council. A government to delay the clock in Iceland about an hour. I think of the most interesting things in life, and I must say, I was a little pleased to hear them. A messenger says he suggested that the proposal be referred to. A health committee where I sit because I like to look at these aspects. I will do my part until this is done well and in a material way. At the same time, I would like to say that I don't automatically believe that the change in clock registration is necessarily beneficial, even though it seems worthwhile to me, as I said earlier. What we heal, as it were, on the current registry is brighter afternoon. I think it is important that we also consider this part of the case, it will be weighed and evaluated, and we will try to examine the activities of the Committee. While changing the clock logs, we do not change the content of our country so easily, thus changing dark or bright hours over the day, even though we can somehow control the time they are. I would also like to state that I am by no means a part of it, as some have mentioned in the discussion of the clock, to go in the other direction, and to speed it up. I think that's a very hard way. I think we should take full advantage of this and check it with our body clock, but we also need to consider how that would affect the other way. When children finish school before it is dark, and this can affect various aspects of their social activities too. It is often dark enough when the children come home from school and we tape it at the end, and that's why I think it's also important to take a good look at the tests of winter depression and try to figure out what this is because of the clock's registration and what it's possible to merely trace down to our north-lamp on the globe. We are not so far along in technology that we can begin to drift souther territory even if you sometimes think about dropping in late February so that it could be a little fun and good. So I feel that it is important that we think of the possibility of simply starting school later in the morning. Like a snooze. In his ensuing speech, Páll Valur Björnsson may have been the perfect system to delay the clock and the school. I think it might be a good idea to consider the effect of just delaying school. As I say, this is an exciting subject for me that should be taken to heart in a material way. There's going to be good coverage, and I'm looking forward to dealing with it in the committees but I don't want it, as I've traced it here, in any way. I want us to look at this, and hopefully we'll vote on it here in spring with hopefully better and more advanced information in our hands to build on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u97	Mr. President. As a result of these changes, a minister of truth and information becomes clear to the Council. It's a moderated proposal based on our legal code and on experts' indications. The suggestion is simply that ministers are legally accountable to undermine the legal role of the Generals to monitor the European Commission if this is done by deliberate or great neglect. Then ministers are responsible in the law of Ministers responsible if they deliberately or willfully ignore the laws of the land. It's already under the law on the rights of the Minister. Congress laws are part of our national law as ministers responsible for not deliberately or deliberately violating, i.e. Against the council plays. They include the matter of information ministers in connection with the council. In current times, the minister should submit the information he has access to and have a significant significance for the Senate assessment of matters. Even now, if a minister is in trouble with the law of the land, including the council, with intent or great laxness - the minister is spoken of as bringing information that he has access to and that he has a considerable significance for the evaluation of a council - he would be violating the office of Ministers' responsibility. The law of Iceland, our leading scholars, has long pointed out the need for this judicial action to be clear, but as it is now in these two legal columns, the penalty is not clear, not according to our legal explanation. This bill will make these provisions clear. At the same time, it will only expand the responsibilities of a minister. It is not enough for a minister to provide information that is available to him and to have a significant significance for the Senate's assessment; it also needs to expand the duties of a minister just because he gives the council false or misleading information or secret information with a deliberate or gross lack of respect for this responsibility as well. That's all this bill has to do with. I can't imagine anyone feeling that it really doesn't begin to adjust, or it doesn't work for the administrations, that a minister is legally responsible if he deliberately or deliberately gives the council a criminal disregard for false or misleading information or secret information that has a significant significance for the treatment of the General Assembly in a case when the council plays a legal role in the establishment. That's what this is about. So that changes two law columns. It's just a slight change of 50th. The law of Congress has changed slightly, and there is a slight adjustment in the law on the rights of ministers. If we go to the paper with the bill, there are comments on its unique articles. I'm going to read what it says about 1st par. Which changes the terms of the council slightly, to make it clear. By permission of the President: ▪ 1st. The bill is submitted to the conversion of the 50th paragraph. Act of the General Assembly. It's on regulations 50. discusses the information required by the secretary to the council. In 1st. The bill is suggested to refer to the laws of the Minister's Accountability in the proposed regulations so that the violation of the Minister. 1.mg. Fifty. Act on the General Assembly applies to the Minister's Qualification Act. In effect, it says that the law on the court order regarding the family of truth protected the minister's responsibility. Well, that's the word for it. This is what law experts have suggested needs to be clear. About 2. The bill says, with President's permission: It suggests that a minister of the Council is to give misinformation or misinformation to the Council, or secret information that has a significant significance in the handling of a case at the Council, as the minister of Ministers will do this deliberately or deliberately negligently. It is suggested that judicial action on this subject be legalized by the Minister's Accountability Act. The first part of the law deals with the accuracy of the information required by members of the Parliament or members of the Parliament with a minister and can protect any official issue without being tied up with a matter for the treatment of the General Assembly. According to the directive, a criminal reply will be made to queries and other information requests with misleading or incorrect information. The second part of the law on information that the Minister should take of his own initiative and have a significant significance in the handling of a case at the General Assembly and is recommended to conceal information that should be given to him on this basis. Section 3. The bill itself, explains that the bill should be taken already. I suggest that we make the bill go into effect, that we accept it here at the General Assembly and strengthen it, make it clear that it is a punishment for Ministers not to give information that he has, and that it is punishable to hide information on the other hand or to provide false or misleading information with intent or great no court. Then I suggest the bill goes through 2nd. and the administration board and the monitoring committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u98	A respectable president. I'm not going to extend this speech session, but it's important that the Ministers explain the truth and correctness of the council. It is absolutely essential that this meeting work as it is supposed to be. At the same time, if it is the experience of a new senator at the council, it is sad that it needs to be violated by law. Then the question arises: Is this really an experience? A senator of the council since the spring 2013 election said that here ministers kept information secret, which had been obliged to state whether he witnessed that a minister gave misleading information and what cases it is or whether he had experienced it in the Senate that a minister had specifically lied to the council, i.e. Is there a clear motive from the council that gives him reason to make the case clear? Then it is reasonable to ask, "Is the senator not concerned that this may be espionage, i.e. what is misleading, what is right, what is necessary to contribute to information and what is not.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u99	Mr. President. I'm gonna start with the second question. Of course, it is ecstatic, as with all the laws, but it is moderated. It is a matter of resolve that will then have to prove or to be a great laxity, and it is a legal law that is very difficult to prove that the suggestion is moderate. Regarding the first question, this debate is about the fact that ministers are not telling the truth and right, and people only need to watch the press last year to see it, but members of Congress have accused ministers of not giving the correct information, concealing information. All the people of the land know the history and can go and look at it. All you need to do is examine the discussion in unprepared queries. paritaprevir On December 16, more than a year ago, 2013, Katrín the daughter of Jakobsdóttir would like to find an example of an incident in which men wanted to deny that a minister was not telling the truth. Of course, there are many examples. This suggestion simply means that it is a jurist, such as. Róbert R. Spanó has said that the logic of penalties, as indicated in the report, will be clearer. Penalties must be a minimum of any objective reference, or they must contain a tangible unit of guidance on their content, even though they are worded in an ecstatic way. This needs to be clear. That's the goal of this bill, that it's clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u100	A respectable president. It's natural that's very serious, if that's what it is. A senator believes that there are many examples of this in the elected period when ministers lied to the council. I understood the senator like that, but he did say that the men of the United States think he is there. I understood that he was referring to himself. But I ask about the economist, because by allowing this to be a matter of the Minister's responsibility, if I understand correctly, this is actually a matter of the national court, and the prosecution then is the matter of the council. In order for a minister to be really held accountable for misinformation or misinformation, a greater proportion of members of the council needed to appreciate the fact that this was true. While living under the arrangement here, is it not certain that the greater part of the Council of each occasion would always defend his minister or strike a armored city about him as has been a rich historical tradition in the Agency? If this is correctly understood, I think that at least there is no need to worry that the law will be applied too often, for obviously the more part that the minister's support, his strength, would be needed to handle the truthfulness. Otherwise, you can't get land or beach on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u101	Mr. President. Yeah, yeah. A senator misunderstood the fact that there were many examples during this season; the examples are many through history, but I think that perhaps it was a form of fun to misunderstand it. Regarding the second question, this is the way the system is designed so that it takes a greater part for a minister to be accused, appointed prosecutor, to remind me that the procedure is that way, and to leave the country's court, as this is a moderated proposal. It is not easy to go this way, but by this change it will be clear what is already under the law that it would protect a minister's responsibility if a minister of purpose or a grand court of law goes against the law. One of the laws is a body of Congress that requires information ministers to the General, which is a natural principle so that the Council can perform its administrative role in keeping track of the European Commission. Then this will be clear, and the jurists will have called for the clearness of their punishment, this should be clear. At the same time, it is added very natural that it is not just that when the council performs its role, the minister just has to supply the information he has access to. In other words, he can keep secret what he does not have access to. It is clear, then, that giving false, misleading information is also punishable. Out on it goes the bill. I say again, the bill goes on to the management and monitoring committee and we accept it, let's make this clear once and for all.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u102	V.E.G. President. I'm here offering a proposal for a synonym of effective planning for jobseekers. First he is Ásmundur Friðriksson, an additional 17 members of the High Priest's Class and the Self - Opportunity Class. This case was introduced earlier at the 143th legislature Council. I'm gonna grab that report a little bit, Mr. President. New figures indicate that unemployment is on the decline and that there can be a better chance of seeing a better time for economic and employment in this country. It is important to have those who do not have a good job environment where they are helped to find a new job, to get job - related rehabilitation and effective resources that are suitable for each person and during a job search, it is important that you can continue to be an active member of the community. This concluded resolution suggests that a minister will expand the current job for jobseekers as well as seek new effective measures in consultation with the European Union, the League's Union of Colleges, Iceland's Common Association and Business Association. In recent years, governments have provided a number of job and effectiveness tools for jobseekers. Need and a good job has been being done, and many have benefited, but for a long time, it is good to add, as well as to consider, an increasing need for jobseekers to be offered the opportunity to take up a job that is done in the community all for good and where good work can be added for a long time. The movers of this proposal are particularly looking to local members of the community that are involved in social affairs. Then there are volunteer work for a free community organization that is working on good business in the interests of the public. The report will consider, for example, the work being done. It is necessary to consider new legislation as obligatory to jobseekers to participate in efficiency measures, it will be necessary to pay from the unemployment insurance fund and the forwarding of rural partners to participate in relevant activities, and to perform good practice as required by the minimum wage requirements. It is proper for jobseekers, for example, to have a period of two to four months to look for a new job before being obliged to participate in functional measures and, of course, it is assumed that during the period of work, jobseekers will still be looking for a suitable job. It is reasonable to look at such important tasks for those jobseekers who choose not to go to school, and they also need to consider their rights during the job, such as insurance and adequate payment, which makes it normal for people who work through a series of effective measures that this will enjoy December's work every year. Transporters wish that the matter be settled on a welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u103	V.E.G. President. I'd like to participate in a discussion on how to improve the effectiveness of jobseekers, even if only because I made this proposal, which had probably recently been given here at the council, discussing the third matter on the program in the autumn, i.e. on various grounds of the budget for 2015. Now that this suggestion has come to pass, I want to pick up the thread, so to speak, what it was then. First, though, I'd like to say that we're probably, I suppose, all agreed on the need to improve the effectiveness and effectiveness of tools for jobseekers, even though we can determine which roads are best or most likely to produce results. What impresses me a little Spanish, so to speak, is that this proposal developed and was distributed at the same time as we were discussing the basis of the budget-based bill that was being cut down or reduced some of the effective measures, such as the effective strategy, which has been the cooperation of the labor movement with the Association of Employment, it was taking a measure of control. At the same time, there were whisks. The members of the federal states, who supported these impairments on the grounds of the budget bill, speak for the increased effectiveness measures of the synonym. As it turned away from me, I felt that it was all right to abandon the damages there was. It was not only by Active Ones who were being cut down but, in effect, weakened education and high school literature were actually shut down for those 25 years of age and older, in praxize it was shut down. I can see why. A senator shakes his head, which was in the praxis, so the schools do not have financial opportunity to receive these students, so there was a way they were shutting down a certain method of action. At the same time, people were being referred to in expensive measures, i.e. A private school. It is far from default that people can afford to go to high - school schools. There's one other thing I want to do for a conversation. In a paper with the Senate resolution, the President's permission states: To this end, it is necessary that there be new legislation as mandatory to jobseekers to participate in effective measures. As I understand this, it is presented that there may be a requirement for jobseekers to receive some kind of compensation or payment from the government. I think it's important that we talk about it and put it in context with the highest bill. Social and housing minister on the terms of financial support from a community we spent a little bit of time discussing here one afternoon. I believe that conditions, i.e. to force people into efficient measures, simply not a way that is successful and actually against being effective. The experience from other countries, as far as I know, is that young people have viewed the effectiveness of terms as punishment, especially when people have been involved in some kind of work, e.g. as mentioned in the report, which helps with cleaning costumes for sports companies, who say something like - I don't want to say job benefits, but because people are forced to participate in jobs that have usually been done in volunteer work; that the experience was or could be that we push people whom we have to work on the edge, that we go in the opposite direction and detract from their community involvement. I think that's the worst part. Then we're working against the goal, which, as I said at the outset, I think we all agree on, i.e. that we want to strengthen our effectiveness, but I have doubts about the ways in which this is being suggested or proclaimed. As I said before, I think it's a little strange to start by agreeing to cut down the efficiency measures and then, just a little later, with a contingency proposal, where it is again being encouraged to improve efficiency.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u104	V.E.G. President. I'm hereby offering a proposal for a resolution on the development of technical support. Besides me, the suggestion is why. Councilmen Kristján L. Möller, Jewish Hannesson, Lára Lara Arnardóttir, Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir, Bjarkey Gunnarsdóttir, and Björt Ólafsdóttir. In the Parliamentary Directive, the Minister of Health (HCP) must review the state's payment rules for assisted reproduction techniques by the end of 2015. During the review you will be taking care of the following: 1st to pay attention to health insurance includes first IVF, 2nd that the payer of health insurance is not a matter of whether a couple or a family already have a child, 3 if the embryo-foetal development is not performed where there has been no fertilisation, then full health insurance payer should be included, but not included with other ARTs involving health insurance payer, 4 that the payer of health insurance will include travel costs for assisted reproduction techniques even if the payer of health insurance does not cover their treatments, 5 that the sex cells (ovocytes and sperm) from a specific donor may go to just one pair or one person. V.E.G. President. I'm not going to have much trouble about this, but I'm going to grab off the report in a few places. In this case, one in six couples may be expected to have some form of infertility, but the incidence of infertility is, unfortunately, always growing for various reasons. According to a synopsis proposal, a minister is to reexamine the government's payment of assisted reproductive techniques so that government support becomes larger than present, making people with infertility easier to seek treatments for the disease than at present, because infertility is defined as a disease. The State's payment party due to in vitro fertilization procedures is now subject to the regulations in Regulation No. 917/2011, on the involvement of health insurance at the cost of ART provided without a contract with Iceland's Medical Insurance, with subsequent changes. According to Article 1. This Regulation covers in vitro fertilisation and microscopic fertilisation, i.e. not assisted reproductive techniques. The time of the Regulation is temporary, as in Article 8. Hers, and has been extended for one year every year since she was appointed. Hence, it may be clear that the current arrangement is not intended to date, in the opinion of the movers, and it is therefore a good reason for the minister to reexamine the current payment arrangements. The aforementioned Regulation was amended in Regulation No. 1167/2011 so that only one to four health insurance parties, whether a non - child or a single female without a child, are now included in the payment of health insurance only to the second or to the fourth treatment. The participation used to be first-line treatment. After the change, health insurance will not be involved in the cost of in vitro fertilisation therapy in couples who have a child together. I would also like to point out that fertility operations in Iceland are performed only in one medical station, ARTD medical facility in Kopavogi. The registry of health insurance due to ART is not consistent with the cost of treatment. This needs to be coordinated, and I'm an example in the report on the other hand, the payment of health insurance and the treatment costs. The difference may be 50 points. K. which will be paid only by the patient. According to the movers, there is a need to increase support for assisted reproduction techniques in Iceland, since we are the submers of neighboring countries in this area. I'll take an example of Denmark and Sweden, where credit parties will be used for the first, second, and third treatment. In Germany, there are no treatment differences between treatments and all treatments supplied by the state that a pair reached 25 years of age. In England, a full pay factor is made up of one to three glass and microchip treatments, and in Norway three treatments are fully paid. Finland is in a similar position, so we are a few self - support boats in this area. I'd also like to mention discrimination against the people of the country, but as I said before, there is only one doctor's office... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u105	President wants to draw attention to him. The senator says that it is now almost over the time we have set aside for this meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u106	V.E.G. President. Can I finish my case?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u107	We only have one minute to do that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-18-68.u108	Then I will finish my case and refer to the Senate's resolution to the welfare committee.
