ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u1	At a meeting of the State Department this morning, October 6, Silja Dögg Dög Gunnarsdóttir's daughter was the first vice president of the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u2	Borist has received a letter from the State Department asking for every request in order to give a written answer to a letter on the subject. 94, about the increase in the clergy of the National Church, from the Steinunn Þóra on the Year's Árnadóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u3	V.E.G. President. I'm coming up here to complain that I'm at the highest level. The prime minister has not responded to my request for special discussions about insurance. I made this request in February the last year. V.E.G. The prime minister could not see how to deal with her for the entire spring assembly. Now that I have offered her a second time, she has been here since the release of a council at the beginning of September and still has the highest. The prime minister did not see fit to have this discussion with me. Of course, it is based on the fact that on January 23, 2014, a group of staff delivered a reimbursement report to prime minister. Then, on May 9, 2014, the Ministry of Presidency published a report on the measures to be taken from January 1, 2015. Then, work was to be started from 2016 on a strategy for the complete reduction of prices on new consumer loans. This is one of the main campaigns of the forward party, and I do not accept being respected when I wish to discuss it at the highest level. President and I would like to know that the highest. The president walks behind the minister and see to it that these discussions take place quickly. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u4	As has been done, the President will follow this wish. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u5	A respectable president. It is estimated that approximately 151⁄20% of children have a mental disorder at any given time and that about 5% of the paediatric population needs expert services. The Children's Youth Department, BUGL, now totals more than 740 children for the treatment of 4◯17 years of age. Despite this number, there are 120 others on the waiting list. This is shown in the first part of a series of articles on the mental - health services of children and youths in the Morning Press today. Last year, the BUGL was almost alone every day of the year, and here I am just talking about an emergency. Under these circumstances, for example, suicidal thoughts and discouragement are listed. Total events at the department last year were about 6,500. The Ministry of Health is now working on a mental - health agenda. During the past two years, there has been a signed team of members of Congress who have proposed a judicial arrangement to screen for anxiety and depression in all children and for those who need assistance. The Senate Department referred the case to the Ministry during the summer, where ministers and employees have responded with responsibility. Thus, a new mental - health program will expect a screening for anxiety and depression in all preschoolers. This is very good news, for children often become isolated from anxiety and depression, elevation from school, social isolation, and even unworkable to the future. There are also many examples of suicide. Mental illness is a major reason for the elimination from high school. The amount of money that goes on this project is well spent. This class of savings is expensive, not just for individuals, but for the whole community. Hence, the handling of the matter should be welcomed, as well as be commended for the morning edition's interest in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u6	V.E.G. President. It has been seven years since collapse, a collapse that had an enormous impact on the Icelandic economy, and a number of individuals and families in the country. Unemployment rated rapidly, borrowed money as if there were no tomorrow, and the home of the country was becoming increasingly difficult to reach. This made it possible for a considerable number of people to lose their home, and in too many cases families were exposed to divorce and other traumas. It is safe to say that this was a difficult time for many families, and it is therefore shocking to hear when some individuals claim that this was not really a crash. Sadly, we hear occasional reports of it these days. I just can't understand because today we still see the smell of the collapse. There are still cases where individuals do not get their release, including those with illegal success - guarantee loans that they cannot correct. Yet, during this terms, there has been a $150 billion debt operation for the country's home. This is a direct decomposition and a special delivery system. Each month, some 500 million types of tax exchanges may be included in securable housing debt and special housing savings accounts. In addition, bills that are supposed to improve rent - rent situation are entering the council in the next few days. On morning TV, I heard an interview with the Pellula. paritaprevir The Guðlaug of Þór Thor Þórðarson, who spoke of how difficult it was for young people to buy an apartment. Among other things, he spoke of building regulations and high conditions in this regard. I deeply agree with him that there are factors that we need to reevaluate on all the housing work being done. This was a very important one. Senator. But I'm stuck with the fact that we have to deal with the growth plans of home when they invest in housing, i.e. The insurance policy. A big key is to improve housing conditions.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u7	V.E.G. President. In 2007, the cityholts School began to teach gender as a matter of choice. Many schools followed, and a great awakening occurred among students, and feminist societies exploded in high school. Many students appeared in the media and reported their experience in the study of sex. Rather, they would have made them more aware of human rights and democracy. Among other things, in the matter of prostitution, ment, gays, politics, power, stereotypes, pornography, and pornography are discussed in a selectional program in high school. My experience in teaching such a milestone is that students are generally ill - mannered in this study. In many cases, they are exposed to a great deal in sexual studies. Many students have said that they view life simply in a different way after going to a gender phase. The path to equality must be through education and education. Despite much effort, there is still considerable land. It is seen from the salary of the sexes, gender defects, e.g. the government, the Supreme Court and the administrations of an enterprise, and so on. If we are going to achieve real equality in this community, we should have progressive equality education at all schools and especially in high schools. I challenge a minister of education to get involved in making a basic part of sexual studies a subject of all high school courses.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u8	A respectable president. I would like to use this program, the House of Congress, to bring up what I feel is a serious thoughtlessness of the land use of the World Council here in the middle of the city. The General Assembly is able to take over, in complete disclosure and in disproportionate urbanity, to build-up ground here on Von Street, under the U.S. Senate parking lot and members of the council. Tafr has been on a project, which is certainly very unfortunate, but that does not mean that the Allied has the authority to set these fields under parking lots. I'm impressed with the newest possibilities of the box, and I'm the highest. A president to make sure that the box is used in an appropriate way. In this situation, I find that there's a lot of crystals that don't do us well. First, at the Generals and the Generals, they set the example of others in taking advantage of traveling methods other than their private car. In this context, I think it's right to say that I'm not recommending that my private car is never used but that there are other possibilities used in the situation. If we are to accept the laws we set here, and the course we commit, we must follow first by example. Studies and examples have proved that as the automobile internal structure increases, the more the number of cars becomes larger. To take over a parking lot area means that there will be an increase in the number of people who come here on the road to work or otherwise. That's not a good development. On the one hand, this is a question of the General's respect for the environment where it is located. This structure poison has been in the fence for a very long time, and it has a face on the environment. There are a number of ways to do this, and this area can be opened up and used temporarily, which will make the environment more live and much better. Besides, I think it's a matter of universal self - esteem. To me, looking at this area from outside, if I didn't know better, I wouldn't be sure here, if it were all for luck, or for the sale of cars. It's unacceptable. Except for all of this, the innovations in this region, as I said before, are completely prohibited, and all alone should be a reason why we will use the parking lot we have access to, which is 96 in number, but stop stretching our scents out the centre of the city. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u9	Mr. President. There was a convergence in the local government's presentation of meetings with members of the Southern District of the United States last week. For example, everyone talked about transportation. The growth of tourists has resulted in dramatic changes that are not recognized in the budget, the main policy of the government. As the country's hundreds of thousands increase in tourist roads, it is evident that the pressures on the road system require increased maintenance. Police labor has since increased to the point of the number of people who travel through the country and the service to the population. The same is likely to be said about health care in most parts of the country. Some rural areas in which a composition of the population has changed greatly as a result of increased tourism and increased tourism. The number of children in school is reduced, but the population increases because of single foreigners who serve temporarily while traveling. House - to - house trouble is often the result that tourists go to every house that comes free but also because of the cost of building a house that never gets back. There is a problem that has been solved because of long - lasting wealth and decay in the South, with conditions that cannot be made up for long periods of time. In every community, the increased money in the disabled was called for, and the communities claim to return the category if there is no relief. In most parts of the elderly, there is a real problem, and there is a need for a government plan. Legal income stocks in general do not cover rural management. Mr. President. It is not enough to fantasize about a leanless government fund and the growing number of tourists in this country, the government has to understand that the cost and pressures of public service are accompanied by an additional public service to the inhabitants of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u10	Mr. President. I'm on the same line as the last speaker who held us in a district week and in my district, the North East Precinct, is great like some others. We left Siglustjörður and all the way east of the Deepavog, and there was also a harmony with the local government, and there was the harmony of the largest state institutions that the budget was high and that people in general would have expected it now when the social age was more balanced. As we noted earlier, transportation was a lot to talk about. Road 1 is not built up or malaria or anything like that all over the world, including ... inBerrufjörður. There is much talk of disappointment through the fiber optics, that financial support does not follow as expected. There was also a lot of concern about the income division of rural society, which not only dealt with disabled persons but also that the internal structure that the rural communities have to deal with, of course, is in the urban area, and they may not be able to go to the point where the rural account is rather low, unfortunately, while the government fund is up. Many people's opinions were that the government fund should not be reducing taxes during such a situation but, rather, sharing it with the local community. It was said of the customs guard and that it was unacceptable how it was placed, for example, in the land of Seyans, in the midst of my district. More important, the Northeast monasteries were a source of great concern. The minister of Illugi Gunnarsson's son on the co-ordination of high school and cuts to them, some of whom, how they were put in, and how students were calculated, seemed to be a little support from the Ministry to those in charge of the district. Sorry, folks, no matter where they are, are highly disappointed by 2016's budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u11	V.E.G. President. After a week's election, we'll put together the results, process them, roads, and see how we follow up on matters. The excellent tradition has developed in the Northeast treaties that all members of Congress travel together, meet representatives of all local governments in the district, and heads of various institutions. By this type of work, we may be able to settle down and work together, since, of course, we agree on most of our progress. I'm wondering if we senators can do better if we get more involved in elections. For example, I'd like to mention that the person standing here was nearly 900 miles (1,800 km) past the week with her companions. From Sigludíd to Deepavógs, the earth is wide. Meanwhile, e.g. Councilmen Reykjavíkur, natural, over a much smaller area. Just driving the roads in the district greatly deepens their understanding of their condition and the importance of adding significantly to maintenance contributions well into consciousness when it comes to unacceptable roads that are, unfortunately, the reality that many Icelanders have after years of restitution. For example, here are the trails of the City Fjord, the Road of Brenah, the Valley of Bjords, the Valley of Hörg, and a number of international roads. After this anger, I cannot help but wonder, as many rural rulers do, whether it is reasonable to emphasize first building up a road to places that are not yet there. We need to talk about this. Aren't we building up a tourist country in which we want to live? As soon as I thank everyone who welcomed us through the week, I want to state that there is a lot of power in people. Many communities face an amazing task that is worth paying more attention. I'd like to mention the LungA School, which is a global cultural event, the ambitious career of educational institutions, knowledge fields, and so many other things that cannot be listed here. [[The president calls.]] There's obviously a force in the population of the country and a reason for optimism.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u12	V.E.G. President. It is said somewhere that there is more joy than one unrighteous person who returns than 99 righteous ones. Last week, I was thrilled to see that Iceland's Sidlabanki has seen something happening. There is evidence of repentance in that town over recent growths. This time, people had the wisdom to keep any growth unchanged, and the more they accepted what has been held for a very long time, including the one being present, the need to increase the binding of banks. Iceland's late bank took a step in that subject, and it should be welcomed in a very special way. I think it's almost certain that Iceland's Sidlabanki has preceded a bad example of collective agreements that had been approved for the last spring as he rose immediately, before the general development and labour contracts would be seen. This led to a number of companies'success in and contracts to raise their credit rates and products substantially. I think people should have been slightly slower on this one. I also think Iceland's Secret Bank should have. He has likely seen himself now because he has been experiencing what was pointed out here repeatedly, that by raising growth as has been done in the spring months, he was offering a wax - burgeoning banquet, as was the case in 2004 and 2005. At last, humans have finally seen them, and their steps have frightened them. I'd like to use this opportunity to show a man how to go up slowly because there are conditions for now, for his constant dollar and fortitude, to hold back the prices and interest rates in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u13	A respectable president. It is most unfortunate that Iceland's Summit has no prior notice of a press conference on huge decisions in the United States. This is very unfortunate because, of course, there is uncertainty about the position of the major cases that is turning toward the upcoming of broken - down banks and whether the situation has not been fully planned, as well as whether there is no solid agreement on the proposals of the administration system. It is also unfortunate that the bank has not been able to attend a meeting of the Economic and Business Committee yesterday and review its views on the matter and inform the committee of its status. It is of utmost importance, if going on a much less expensive route to the foreign demands, i.e. stability conditions rather than stable taxation, and even provide hundreds of billions of discounts from the stable tax through that way, as Invenence has indicated, that it is clearly identified in a rational way how to ensure that it is not being taken hundreds of billions in the next few years from an Icelandic economy that reduces the quality of living and the cessation of the budget. It is a key factor in the success of broken - down banks and the success of foreign demands that it is a good solidarity for all institutions and across the community as a guarantee of national interests, and it is not up to human efforts to eliminate tax requirements in foreign parties that have been guaranteed by law without adequate consideration of why it should be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u14	A respectable president. Today, people who practice so - called factory farming have a real problem. The article has a shadow after a serious violation of animal rule laws. It is not overly strongly said that the public is in a sort of shock after finding out about the circumstances in which pigs often live and in which they were not at all okay in many cases according to the assessment by the Food Organization. Now it is realistic that consumers will think twice before buying the forbidden meat. Clearly, a factory structure in which animals suffer suffering in order to accomplish their price will never be accepted. However, egg and chicken production is very important for food supply in Iceland. Clearly, in Icelandic farmers there is far more purity in products than are known in imported meat because of the low use of drugs in this country and the strict rules for throwing away infected meat. In this regard it is said that in Iceland a single effective dose of antibiotics is used at a convention of 20 in most of our competitive countries. Such excessive antibiotic use is associated with a tremendous risk that more antibiotics become unsuitable and that antibiotics become more and more severe within medical practice. I predict that following these events, consumers will clearly require that they want the meat they buy to be witnessed so that it is produced in a way that conforms to animal travel laws. It is also very important that consumers in the packaging see where the meat comes from in sausages, aluminium and footprints. First: Is this foreign or foreign meat? Second, does the quality - drinking meat come from animals? [[The president calls.]] Finally, I'd like to encourage pigs and chicken farmers to open their farms, invite the public over for a visit, explain how the animal equipment is, and discuss freely what can be done. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u15	V.E.G. President. I want to use this field to give special commendation. Minister of the Foreign Minister of Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson. He is, as we know, a new world after addressing the United Nations General Assembly on October 2 of the past. In his talk there, the minister in particular withdrew from the affairs of the WestSahara as an example of a conflict that could not be forgotten. West Sahara is an army of some four decades ago following the invasion of Marocco. The natives of the country are generally without land, and they live in Algerian refugee camps while Morocco refuses to comply with the demands of the international community to respect the self - determination of the people. According to these words, the highest. Secretary of state was taken. I know that West Sahara's interests have appreciated the fact that a representative of Iceland used the opportunity to remind us of this forgotten war zone. The reminder is the highest. Of course, the minister of the state of state to follow the synonym agreed to agree here at the World Council earlier during this ultimatum that international Iceland is subject to the self-sponsored rights of the West-Sahara people. I myself was the 1st apostle of the proposal, then, in fact, as a deputy. I was very happy to see how well and how much harmony was formed in her recovery. You see, even if we general members of the council, especially us in the government position, feel that we may at times be insignificant, good things can often be cleared up in the event of good cooperation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u16	Mr. President. A tragic shipwreck occurred in the summer when one man died, while three sailors survived from the boat because another nearby boat came to their side and saved them. The rescue boats did not blow up, and there were no explanations why rescue equipment did not work, why the boats did not blow up. A detailed discussion of the recent accident and its investigation has shown that the research committee of marine accidents in the study does not intend to remove the boat from the bottom of the ocean to investigate its causes and why rescue equipment failed. Western sailors have challenged the Minister of the Interior to ensure investigation and funding for the project. The sailors'organization has also demanded that everything is done to find out what caused this tragic accident and that it cannot be resolved, without certainty, unless its stability is checked by reaching the bottom of the ocean. I think it's a serious matter to be fully investigated. The crew members have criticized the fact that the investigation is out of control and that the hull of the ship is not to be reached from the bottom of the sea. I can agree with the criticism, and I feel that the monarch's going to have to be examined. Alternatively, the safety of seafarers cannot be guaranteed, and those who now have lifeboats they believe are not safe until the cause of this accident is revealed. I think it's very important, so that a similar accident can be prevented, to the extreme. Ministers will make sure that the investigation is conducted and the vessel is reached at the bottom of the sea so that any conclusions can be drawn into this serious matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u17	V.E.G. President. I'm here to discuss a rubber plate of leftover widows that has been used in the local playground and sports field, mainly at a soccer field. There are clear rules for handling and disposal of damaged tires, but once the tires are scoured down and distributed in the sports field of children and adolescents, there are no rules. Yet, it is clear that the toxins have a much easier way to get into the environment from the tyre than they are tied in the brain of a tire. In fact, the discussion began five years ago and after that discussion, the Iceland Medical Association issued the unanimous challenge of government banning the use of a rubber mask containing oncogenic agents and other toxic substances in sports and game areas. For some reason, the discussion was not successful, and this crisis by the Medical Association. Despite evidence that it is possible to cause disease, we did not react to warnings at the time. The case is on the table of a number of people such as rural society, soccer and health monitoring and the EEA and, of course, a number of organizations that are concerned with the well - being and health of children. There are, however, a number of studies and reports on this subject, and Norwegians have examined it quite carefully, pointing out the risk of environmental impacts by the plant in the neighbouring area of the artificial grass. Now home and school, the parents'national organization, have asked that such fields will be replaced and dangerously used. Like other nations, we must respond and rather forbid this use and take the job of dividing the tyre through the dangers. I have now sought the support of all classes and have received a positive response to a church resolution in the highest degree. Environment Minister will be committed to this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u18	A respectable president. The Matrix. I would like to agree here with the members of Congress who have spoken what they have learned last week, in the district of decision, on matters that burn on the inhabitants of the scattered country. There is one issue I would like to take out of that package specifically and direct it to members of Congress to discuss it among themselves and enter into it. We really have to do something. They face economic issues based on the disabled. It seems that there was about a billion missing in the group of lawsuits as such. It is not because of the services or buildings that the people want to go to, that is, because of the current activities, because of the services that have been legalized in these settlements, i.e. The rurals have already made this amount of money. I would like members of the Parliament to place themselves, for example, in the place of the services community on the Westland, which now lacks about 6,900 people. For the most part, the funds already spent in service as laws from this source are their obligation to provide. There are many aspects of this case. Among other things, what we need to put ourselves in is: How does the entire budget come about? How is she divided? What is the situation between rural and urban areas? Likely, it is the will of the Lawgiver and of all that anyone who is disabled can live where he lives and does not have to move because of his disability. In some parts of a rural area, it is obvious that the ministry may be expensive. I encourage all members of the council to settle into these matters and find a mutual solution to the problem that is about to arise unbelievably quickly because that is only a short time since this assignment went to the local community. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u19	A respectable president. Seamen's safety issues have been in the news only recently, but incredibly little, by my opinion. Soon a fishing ship is sunk, and one person was killed, and little could be remembered. I take my heart to the demands of sailors that anything can be done to find out what went wrong. First, how did the ship suddenly turn upside down? Didn't the stability work? How was it that neither lifeboat was released from the ship, nor did it open? How did the presence of a ship not depend on the need to listen to an emergency wave? Clearly, the last thing to do is to get sailors to listen to the emergency wave. With regard to the other two things, there is no other way to get the wreck up and explore it. So far, fishermen have had great faith in the release equipment in their ships, but now they are protected by a measure of doubt and a great deal at stake in destroying them. The first is just as important. In a sailor's emergency school, it is strongly emphasized that a safety device number one is the ship itself, thus putting much emphasis on the fact that the ship is in good shape and all its equipment. Was the stability of the ship okay with the case? If so, how could it get so suddenly? To find out, there is only one way to get the wreck up and study it. It may have been a mistake to combine three research committees, i.e. Air accidents, traffic accidents, and fishing accidents, one committee of transport accidents? Was it a mistake to let a Nautilus walk into a living room? Could it be that seamen's navigation and safety issues are less important? It is not the best friend of the seaman, nor is it acceptable for sailors to be left with the doubt that the stability of the ships is in order and that randomness will be the date for lifeboats to open or not. For answers to their speculations, there is only one way, that is, to pick up and study the wreck. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u20	As was announced at the beginning of a meeting yesterday, a letter has been received by Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, 3th. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go! and the Second Vice President of the Generals, of her resigning as the Second Vice President of the Generals. This indicates that this meeting is scheduled for the election of the second vice president. I've received one appointment, approximately eight. That's the north side. "Þórunn's Egilsdóttir. Since there are no more made than votes, I shall declare the Council's Egilsdóttir Eelsdótti to be the 2nd Vice President of the Generals. I congratulate her on her votes and all her charms and look forward to her cooperation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u21	V.E.G. President. I'm gonna have a place to talk to. Minister of the I.A. for a synonym approved at the General Assembly on 16 May 2014. At that time, the General Parliament, in partnership with the Minister of Internal Affairs, agreed to have penalties for drinking and drug driving in conjunction with total re-examination of traffic songs with the aim of reducing the number of cases. In the synopsis accepted, a series of four options should be considered: 1st Reduce drunk driving limits from 0.5 Promills to 0.2 Promills with corresponding breath samples. 2. A course on the severity of drunkenness and substance driving. 3. Increase fines due to drunk and/or drug driving and part of them run into a reserve fund. 4. Look at new, useful options for drinking and/or doing drugs. At a vote on the proposal, she was accepted with 54 votes, one by. A senator did not vote for eight hours. Congress officials were absent at the vote. The aim of the proposal is to reduce the number of situations in which drivers drive under the influence of alcohol and/or drugs. The data presented in the processing of the proposal is presented, including The report of the Transport Labs and data from the Transport Committee shows that alcohol and/or drug driving are responsible for one third of road deaths as well as serious road accidents. During contemporaneous treatment, traffic laws were also found to be in complete reexamination. In 2007 and at several subsequent conventions, a bill for traffic law has been submitted but not reached. The requested proposal was to be done in connection with billing to traffic laws, i.e. Case 284 submitted by Parliamentary winter 20133/4. Other data, including the Allied Information Department, gathered for the development of the problem and for the legal adjustment to alcohol and/or drug driving in the North countries, shows that Sweden was the first to reduce the peak level of acceptable alcohol levels in blood. It was from 0.5 propmills to 0.2 promills. A subsequent report published by Swedish traffic authorities found that all road accidents decreased by 4% and all fatal accidents by 8%. In addition, a controlled trial was conducted following the Law Change. It confirms that the number of people who stopped driving under the influence of alcohol and/or drugs tripled from previous studies that were subject to controlled law change. In view of this, it can be concluded that the current legal adjustment has had a positive effect on the safety and traffic culture in that country. In Denmark, changes were also made in which the maximum allowed amount of alcohol in blood was reduced from 0.5 milligrams to 0.25 propulsion due to the amount of alcohol in the breath. It shows that the number of deaths in alcohol - induced motor accidents dropped by 75% after the change. In this context, I would like to ask the highest. Minister of state to review traffic laws. If there is a review of the procedure, consideration should be given to the current Conventional Residence Directive on hard-growing drinking and/or drug driving laws? If a revision is not being carried out, when is it scheduled to start, and to see a new traffic bill or another suggestion that points to the fulfillment of this decision-making process? Finally, I want to say that it is important that we look at what is well done around us. It is important that we try to reduce the risk of accidental and/or substance driving accidents. The accidents that others exert great influence on those affected, whether the one causing the accident or the one who gets it. Reduce the tragic consequences that have occurred and may be the result of these accidents to everyone.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u22	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Elisu Lára Arnardóttir for starting a discussion on this important subject and also of setting up this matter at this council. Of course, we all know that alcohol and drugs are a serious matter that is important to prevent by any means necessary. Of course, it is unnecessary for drivers to refrain from drinking alcoholic beverages before driving. Sadly, many people believe that consumption of restricted amounts of alcohol does not impair driving ability. However, it is clear that in no general situation, drivers cannot know how much alcohol consumption affects their bodies and judgment, either in general or in isolated cases. I feel the need to deal with this serious problem, driving under the influence of alcohol, trying to eliminate uncertainty among drivers in this regard, and of course it has to be said that driving under the influence of drugs is also completely unacceptable. It is urgent that drivers do their part in these activities and increase the safety of traffic, whether in personal interest or in others, thus responsiblely preventing the many deaths and serious traffic accidents that occur each year because of drunk driving or driving under the influence of drugs. To react properly when driving, a driver must always be alert and sober. The effects of alcohol and drugs greatly reduce the ability of a driver to identify signs of various dangers, but the greatest threat we are facing in general is the number of drivers who feel they can control motorized vehicles after drinking alcohol or drugs. That fact involves a serious reminder to all of us, a reminder not to be forgotten. But about asking why. When it comes to traffic law, a senator will have two plans for the Ministry. First of all, there is a technical Constitution that I'm not going to share with a lot of people here. It's because of the plans and the factors. That bill is quite far along, and I have chosen to try to get all the regulations into the council so that they can be completed. Then there is a material bill in progress at the Ministry, which is the bill for a change in traffic laws. It has been for a long time the meaning of changing the traffic law. It's been very slow and difficult to get it through, so we mentioned it so that it would have to go back through that matter. We will remember in this regard to the decision to make a synonym. A senator mentioned. There you will need to find material changes in the traffic laws that are thought to be needed to increase traffic security. So we are now doing this work at the Ministry, and it has to do with various aspects of modern traffic laws that are not considered to be clear or that need changes for some reason. As an example of bicyclists, due to foggy lights, I mention because of driving in certain situations, priorities, and so on, and so on. The point now is that I thought it would be unnecessary to contribute to this autumn assembly. It's just not far enough, and it's better for us to get the better out of it, so it's more likely that we'll get it through the council. We will try to present this bill at the spring convention. The factors that we have. Of course, all of us consider ways in which we might be able to intensify the repairs of alcohol - driving. There have been cases of alcohol levels in the blood, etc. All of these are things that are in my mind now and not material for me to go into detail to individual factors in this regard. I think we need primarily to introduce some of the resources that are best involved in this relationship to help control alcohol and drugs. As soon as the legislation is of utmost importance and the need for developing it is absolutely clear that we too need to do better in what I have been able to do at the beginning and must be an alpha and an Omega in such a discussion that people understand what it means to challenge society and themselves to be able to drive a car or motorized vehicles after they have consumed alcohol. It must be the primary task of man's recognition of that reality, but the law of law, of course, needs to be of good support.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u23	A respectable president. I want to thank you for this discussion here and this inquiry. Many of the research reports on road accidents, later to the research committee of transport accidents, have much information on the effects of drunk driving. It doesn't matter if you're aware of driving, depending on, driving in front, any type of traffic accidents, every driving is all too big and has cost us way too much. Regarding the burden of punishment, there are a number of studies in a community, such as we do in which there are recommend or severely reduced punishments. True, punishment is needed, but it is always emancipated as to how it should be done. Whether the burden of punishment will help us in this matter must not be said. If severe penalties automatically lead to a lower fracture rate, there should be no offenses in many countries that have absurdly heavy punishment on our standards, but that is not so. The fracture rate is very high in many communities that are severely punished, so the causal relationship there is not completely clear. There is one very important aspect of drunk driving that I wanted to mention, and there is police work. This morning, police representatives came to the General and Education Committee to discuss their issues. In part, it stated that over the past few years, for various reasons, police work has moved from the scene at a desk. Money is one of the reasons, the physics of society and projects. The visible law on roads, especially on weekends, needs to be supported by constant monitoring of drunk driving. I believe that since 2007, this field of work has been cut so hard and has not been able to recover it. I encourage the Minister of the Interior to think about it carefully. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u24	Mr. President. A report on alcohol abuse and alcohol abuse, which was part of the synopsis proposed here first, and related factors, including those related, are informative. when it comes to prevention, training, and training. That's the story when we changed the 2007 law to improve driving of young drivers. It was set up when drivers received four points that they needed to take a special course and to take a driving test again. By then, it was not just a matter of penance and fines and fines but of trying to get young drivers to attend a course to improve their status. The course is based on the ideologies taught by the GADGET model, which says a little bit about the shape of a responsible driver. It is not merely conveying knowledge about the laws of traffic. It is a matter of driving, his purpose, his risk, his decision making, and his responsibility, and why the heads of young drivers are taking such a course. This had a high preemptive effect, and the number of fragile recruits dropped by 60% between 2006 and 2007 and 2007 and 2008. In 2007/2010, 617 subjects attended a special course, 80% men, and 20% women. About the middle of 2011, the driving record continued for those who had attended the course, and 50% had no documented fractures after the course, 11% for drunk and drug driving, 33% for speed driving, and 6% for other fractions. This would also be possible when it comes to older people with some specific process. I think there's something that we should consider that now that we're talking about some hard-working wood law. What methods and measures can we use rather than direct wood? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u25	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the advocate for this discussion. It is a real need and a need to be regular in the conference hall and in the community, since drinking is a very serious matter. They're talking about the burden of punishment and other things. I'm a little confused about that, and it passed by. Senator, if there's a right way to weigh punishment. Although there must always be punishment, it is natural that it is very difficult. I think one of the key factors is to increase education and prevention in these matters at an early age in school. Teaching children and those who are about to take a car test is an enormous responsibility. One of the main factors is to teach children that you do not drive by alcohol or drugs. It's supposed to be a key. Also, more studies and requirements are needed for those who are taking a driving test. Yesterday, I had the privilege of giving a public talk east of Vicodin in the Valley of MIr at Ólafur Kr.. Guðmundsson, who is one of the key drivers in traffic, and the great fighter he stressed just that Iceland and I are going to set clear traffic policy. He said we have no direction in that matter. We would have bad roads and drivers' behaviors that would be lacking. What we would have to do would be concentrate on strengthening this and having what he called five stars on the road in Iceland and five stars, and then with five stars an education that would make us five stars drivers. Inside that package, it would be that once you've had a drink, you never sit behind the wheel.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u26	A respectable president. There's a lot of talk about punishment here. This is good because it is important to discuss them. I'd like to make a suggestion. A candidate here is also involved in the reduction in drunk driving limits from 0.5 Promills to 0.2 Promills, the course of alcohol and drug driving, and the fourth team is required for new management measures in the management of alcohol and drug driving. It is very important to look into this matter because the goal is, of course, not to punish, but to reduce the number of drunk driving episodes. People in general tend to put too much faith in punishment. I, like many of the others here who have spoken, am absolutely not sure that heavier punishments are necessarily effective. It is important to examine it in particular. It may work, but it's not supposed to be obvious. Often, the primary defense is that a person's head be caught, no matter how severe the punishment turns out to be. In order to achieve that goal, if it has more impact than a greater degree of punishment, it is important to keep up with traffic surveillance. That means increasing the number of police officers and improving their general working conditions, something I'm totally into. There are other things that I think are worth discussing in this discussion, but it may be difficult to plant in two minutes, even if I speak twice. I look forward to having a much more thorough discussion on this subject when the bill is submitted. To say that, I look forward to seeing that bill and rejoice that this matter is being discussed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u27	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you for saying something, okay? paritaprevir Lára Arnardóttir, for the discussion. I'd like to come in here only on the connection between the synonym's resolution as it is. A senator will discuss and propose non-political public health policies in alcohol and tobacco that Iceland has participated in and should work on. It states that the goal of all nations in the North should be to reduce the limit of alcohol driving to 0.2 Promill. There are also useful alternatives, such as alcohol in the car of a car driver or in people who have been convicted of drinking alcohol while driving. We just have to admit that some people tend to engage in a steady violation of drunk driving. In 2014, Iceland was historic, since there were never fewer injuries due to drunk driving compared to ten years earlier. The figure was 31 individuals; they had never been fewer. In that year, no one died of drunk driving for the first time based on the CIA data as far as their data return. This result was not achieved until 2014. A respectable president. I believe that a proposal agreed on by 54 premeditated votes is a sign of a convergence. This group of subjects is important if we are to reduce the number of accidents in which alcohol is an influence, so we need to take this discussion regularly. I agree with what. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson that we must not only look at the punishments, we also need to consider prevention. We need to instruct and look for solutions to help those who are in the process of breaking up in this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u28	A respectable president. Thank you. Valuable, Lára Arnardóttir, for starting this discussion on this important and serious subject of drunkenness. In Iceland, traffic accidents are the most common cause of road deaths, and drunk driving is one of the main causes of road deaths. In the wake of such a tragedy, discussion about increased wooding may result from drunk driving. When it is called for an increase in laws on heavier penalties and penalties, it is important to have enough information to know that this will reach the target for increased safety in traffic. So I planned my final law school assignment to investigate drunk driving cases according to police records over a year's period, to analyze the data available, and to examine the nature of drunk driving. These results provide information on the number of drivers treated for drunk driving and analysed by gender and age, when they were taken, and the amount of alcohol in the blood. These results have been compared with other data available on drunk driving. At that time, interviews were made to persons who had been caught driving drunk. The main conclusions are that the threat of drinking driving is mainly due to two groups: one young driver who has not been aware of the severity of drinking driving and often being encouraged by his peers to drive, and one who has a drinking problem, and one who does not seem to be affected. It has been found that the woodwork does not seem to have enough protection, since drivers say they are not expected to interfere with police control. Therefore, it is important to influence the community's attitude on drunk driving, to increase the duty of those who take part in driving to prevent drunkenness by reporting him to the police, as well as to which police surveillance is required to be more selective so that drivers have wherever and whenever they hope they will be stopped from driving drunk. A traffic safety plan showed that four out of five traffic accidents could be prevented from being drunk and motorized by intensive police surveillance.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u29	A respectable president. V.E.G. Minister. I believe that our culture, attitudes, and values are the most important element in life. A major change in our driving program was the recording of a so - called driving year. During practice driving, culture, attitudes, and values of parents are being transferred to a new driver. I believe that during recent years in Iceland, public opinion has changed and as a result, the transfer of the most important part of the driving program is that children learn from their parents a general knowledge of how to survive in traffic. I would like to strengthen the work of parents to ensure that what we are discussing here will be fulfilled, i.e. the importance of all drivers being exposed to the social modeling that drunk driving is completely absurd. I would also like to assume that I miss a tremendously effective advertisement made by a traffic agency several years ago that I think, drunk driving and its consequences. I believe that if the tour room has the opportunity to restart them and if the police have the opportunity to initiate a direct and visible surveillance on this, these three factors will be made clear in the attitude that we're moving to the young generation, that we're running a particular propaganda and that the police will be given the opportunity to be visible in active traffic monitoring, that we'll be successful.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u30	Mr. President. I agree with the last speaker. So I continue to quote the report I was reviewing earlier, i.e. About courses and other routes, but only direct penalties, it's certainly a wooden law. Other nations are taking this extra route, where penalties and delinquency are limited, and it is considered necessary to look for new ways to improve traffic safety, perhaps while directing the person's quality of life on track. The evidence shows that in Denmark the law was changed in 2002 so that anyone who was unprovable because of drunk driving was made to take a driving and alcohol course before they received the driving test again. Then DTU 2009 returned a report that evaluated the results. The conclusion was that these courses were considered less likely to become drunk again. I agree with what. A senator who spoke before me and the police came to us this morning, but there is no new truth that we have seen it drift off the streets. It is much smaller, whether on the highways of the country or on urban areas. It matters. Those who are determined to know this, and rather take advantage of their skills. Alcoholics alone may have limited success, but everyone can bypass what they want. We are considering many types of action, but it is also important to have it varied. However, the most important operation that we will discuss here today is alcohol access. We're going to shop for liquor. I think the most important thing in defense is that we make sure alcohol stays in special stores.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u31	A respectable president. I want to thank you for this discussion. She's very interesting, much more interesting than I thought she'd be, so I'm glad I sat here and listened to her. I'm no expert on these matters, but I'm sure, as we have seen, we look to what has been done in other countries and what has been right. I find it hard to tell if the protection is due to the operation of weighting punishment. I think there's something a minister needs to appreciate. I'd rather think it was education and supervision, and I think it was important that the police be in charge. I remember being stopped sometime when the Icelanders fell completely before the holiday season. Then there was one Christmas Eve last night, and all those who were stopped on the Great Way, and you had to go through a filter. I don't know if it's necessarily the right way, but it needs to be alert as there may be some problem. I have to say, I'm very excited about the idea of alcohol. I say for myself that I wouldn't know how to connect, I didn't even know it was possible. But when men are repeatedly in action and are actually dangerous to themselves and others, I'm sure there's a problem, if they have a car, they're confiscated, if they don't control it. I don't think it's something we should be waiting for. I'd think it was an operation that we could soon take. If you don't, I thank you for an interesting discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u32	A respectable president. I'm gonna throw in one more point about punishment. He's from the police chief's review of Smokeynes since last year and was treated with the situation at any given moment. A senator submitted at the time. That sheriff said by permission of the President: The chief's trial on Southnes is that the primary penalty is a loss of license rather than a level of fines, and it is repeated when inquiries are received as to whether it is possible to pay due to road omission. This interests me because we also need to consider the nature of the punishment, not just that it is heavy, but how it works and how it affects our behavior. Enough on punishment for now. We've got a lot of confusion going on with the police about the state-of-the-arts and the equipment and other factors. I find it very important that when we look at alcohol and drive, we not only think about how we can teach criminals a lesson but also how we can strengthen our own infrastructure to fight the problem most. It means, of course, that if we're gonna take this case seriously, which I think all here, we're gonna have to take it seriously and make it possible for her to do her best. There have been many reports here that this is a common cause of death. Most road deaths are caused by this and therefore it is important that the monitoring is OK, not just what happens following the surveillance. More important, during the past 15 years, the fight against drug abuse has been tremendously effective. We should look that way. But I'd like to mention in terms of alcohol, which many believe to be a mild drug, but it isn't that it has the bitter combination of reduced judgment, severely dulling the central nervous system, and increasing confidence, which is a terrible mixture. I don't have time for any more, most respectable president, and so I'll finish my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u33	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister of state and what. Parliamentaries for their important comments on the discussion. The discussion has been a bit much, as if the aim is merely to gain more punishment. I just want to review the four points discussed by the Parliament's resolution proposal. 1st To reduce drunk driving limits from 0.5 Promills to 0.2 Promills and with corresponding breath samples. It cites fine results from other countries where these have been well - experienced. 2. To conduct a course on the severity of drunkenness and substance driving. That's where I come in on a show like what I'm talking about. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, whose goal is to make similar use of the method used for young drivers who are learning a driving test, talking about education, and increasing their understanding of the seriousness of sitting under the control. 3. To raise fines due to drunk and drug driving and that part of them goes to the Preservation Fund. With extra funding in the Preservation Fund, we can get into a conflict like the OSD and other people have gone to, in the awareness of the seriousness of the situation. 4. To examine new useful resources for repairs of alcohol and drugs. For example, what lies behind them is alcohol. Besides, it's very important, as a dog. Senators have come in, increasing the police demonstration. I know that there is something I can do to correct it. Finally, I want to thank you very much for the fine discussion that has taken place, and I look forward to seeing the bills involved in these matters entering the council and accepting the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u34	V.E.G. President. I want to like others to thank for the discussion, which, of course, is important to us at the State Department for these and other cases. It is always good to know when you also have support during the coming action at the council. I would like to have the discussion that has been explaining my view that I understand both Congress issues. The speaker and the discussion so that you look primarily at what you can do to prevent people from driving as much as possible under the influence of alcohol or drugs. In this, it is obvious that prevention is of utmost importance and that an interesting point was presented earlier that we parents have a great role. For example, I am now an extra driver for my daughter, and it rests on us parents all the responsibility to tell the children that, in fact, they are driving around on a machine that can kill. There's nothing more complicated than that. It is the responsibility of drivers. Young people don't necessarily want to hear this, but it's our job to make them understand it and, of course, the public in general. I agree with what has been said that prevention is extremely important as well as demonstrations, that it is something that is not tolerated. What I think is important for us to think about is that no one knows how half a glass of wine affects the ability of men to drive a car. They're just supposed to let it go. It'd be best. We've been having Promills, etc. I want to say right at the end, because there were figures on traffic deaths, and unfortunately, we have lost 11 lives on the road, in part because of the lack of seat belts. There is another source of this matter, an urgent need for regular thought, that it is clear that all who drive a car and sit in a car need to wear a seat belt.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u35	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to correct a change in the law of action against the money fraud and terrorist finance, No. 64/2006, with subsequent changes. The bill is designed to match the reports of an international projection group against the money harvest and terrorist funding, FAFF, which has been responsible in this global field. The main objective of the programme is to prevent the international financial system from being abused in order to obtain ill - treated funds. Iceland has been a member of this organisation since 1991 and has committed itself to harmonizing Icelandic legislation and the rules of action, as recommended by FAFF. It is highly regarded as the implementation of the European Economic Policy Regulation for measures to counteract money resources. The bill suggests that the analysis of business authenticity will be adjusted and that the demand for the most successful financial enterprise on the implementation of such research will be increased. The main purpose of the change is to sharpen the obligations already laid upon the announcement parties to identify those they are involved in business dealings and to understand the ownership and control of the clients who are authorized to prevent financial systems being abused for money theft or to finance terrorism. Key changes are as follows: It is suggested that the term "application transfer" should be added to a word as defined by FAFF in the English term "retranslation" to the term "possibility." It is suggested that the announcemental parties check the reliability of their clients because of the transfer of funds that the sum of 1,000 euros or more, in relation to the official reference gangs as it is recorded at one time. According to the bill, the transfer of funds by credit cards outside the law's values field falls to certain conditions being met. They are also suggested to further clarify the duties of the reported party to confirm the identity of the real owner, i.e. the person who actually controls or controls a businessman and the local authorities, along with the understanding of the ownership and management structure of the authorized clients. Finally, in the bill it recommends a change in the legal rights of a Minister who aims to provide the minister with additional authority to implement certain laws, including the laws of the law. what information can be considered sufficient and what measures can be considered legitimate to verify information about the real owner. With these changes, FAFF's serious recommendations to the United States for immediate legal improvements have been given to the Icelandic government a measure of time to repair them. It should be noted that countries do not respond to the demands of the group have agreed to put pressure on one another as appropriate by putting a state on a special list of so-called non-cooperative states or states. Among other things, let the pressure be kept in stricter demands on the states or bodies of the country for the financial product, for example, for the establishment of branch offices, a daughter's partner, and for the office of the agency. Then it is considered to give out warnings that business dealings with Member States may involve risks of money laundering. Thus, this can have a broad bearing on the entire financial system and its credibility on a global scale. At a meeting of the highest executives of the staff with the highest force. The prime minister and the minister mentioned here last January found that any further delay in action on the part of Iceland might affect the credibility of our system. The bill is intended to meet one of the three key recommendations of the group. On the other hand, the recommendation is for the release of a list of terrorists and organizations, as set forth by the United Nations Security Council, and promoted by an office of money in this country. This recommendation has been dealt with by bill at the highest level. Secretary of State on changing the law on the implementation of international forced operations and by my bill on changing the laws on the treatment of criminal cases approved at the 144th legislation Council. A respectable president. I have now explained the main points of the bill. I highlight the importance of the case and the views of the credibility of the Icelandic financial system at the international level of the bill. With these words, I suggest that the case be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee and the Correspondence 2.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u36	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a bill to the legislation on the change in term use in Icelandic legislation. The bill suggests changes in legal requirements in the six legal fields. Then the bill includes disfellowshipping for assistance to the disabled, No. 24/1962, with subsequent changes and an arrangement for discontinuation in a Directive of 23 March 1827. The forwarding of this bill is a proportion of a larger project, which is a validation of the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people. With Parliamentary Reunion No. 1496/2012, on a work programme on disabled people's issues, the General appointed a number of projects to be implemented by the end of 2014. Among these were the validation of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Disappointments and reviewing the Icelandic translation of the Convention. On the basis of the projection program, the State Department has led the work of a collaborators with the active presence of rural society and the interest groups of disabled persons. The work of the Committee is to coordinate measures to ensure that the legal environment will meet the criteria of the contract and that it can be validated. The Ministry has reviewed legislation in its own area and has identified the legal adjustments in the terms of the agreement. The review revealed, among other things, the need to make a change in wording on the number of rules to conform it to the terms used by the treaty, as well as many material adjustments in legal requirements. This bill responds to the findings of the colleagues in terms of term use. This suggests that the use of terms will be adjusted according to the approach the contract involves that it is not disabled that define individuals. An example of this is that instead of the word "feeted, " the phrase is used in the form of a phrase that involves" people. " Then it is suggested that the bill be passed from law to law on aid to the disabled, No. 25/1962, with subsequent changes. The laws were originally permissible to the State's alcohol and tobacco trades to sell matches, but on the basis of them it was permitted to put the mark of the paralytics and the disabled on the matchboxes for the fund. There is no need to save the remains of an out - of - date system in the law, and it is suggested that the law be canceled. At the same time, it is suggested that the bill be removed from Article 3. Directive 23 March 1827, on the authority of bishops to issue an exception to the European Commission directives. It is clear to all who read the law that much time is involved and is not in harmony with the agreement on the rights of disabled people. V.E.G. President. The bill of this verse is part of the legal reforms to take place in order for Iceland to validate the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people, as the General has already decided. In terms of the overall position of the project, the work is being done in the administrative capacity, but unfortunately this work has been slow to the limit of expectations. Still, there are some points to be solved that are in the area of three advisers. As far as the State Department of the State is concerned, we have the happy phase of changing the legal laws in harmony with the agreement, and I thank the General for the help of those matters on the final days of the council. If this bill here is recommended that there is no longer any law left in the state of the state of the State but to establish an independent surveillance here in the country, with the implementation of the contract. This special project is essential to consider in the broad context with the aim of finding an independent surveillance on the performance of human rights in a permanent place within the Icelandic administration. It is the mission of the Ministry, now that this bill has come to the treatment of the council, to complete its solution so that the work directly carried out by the Ministry of the Interior has all come to an acceptable course. It is not, however, a matter of remuneration, however, that under the working force of other recruitments, very extensive tasks involved in this matter. Especially at the highest level of work. Department of Social Affairs or Department of Health as normal because of this group of lawsuits. I believe there are very conscious of the importance of a very close investigation. I can also inform the council that we have in the past weeks at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Health being re-enacted that we are achieving the needed guards. It doesn't take to question my will to make sure we get these steps fast and well so we can validate the contract as soon as possible. Therefore, at this point, I allow myself to suggest that the bill be referred to what. General and educational committees for the proper treatment and treatment of 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u37	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of the state for the speech. I fully agree that, of course, these are necessary changes that are being proposed; this is an expression that must be adjusted and used as a term. I'm very happy to hear that. A minister here says that she wants to drive this job and continue in order to validate the fast - moving contract. There's two things I'd like to ask the highest. Minister in. As word changes occur, where two terms are mainly being translated - where they are spoken of as "flavoured" - they are converted to ◯ include people, because the term is changed into various forms according to the way it fits. I ask, "Did I never have a chance in this work to make a little more changes? " For example, a review from research site to disability points out that changes in definitions of disability were possible and that, among other things, there are laws in various places referred to as a medical suit, in which the use of the term "successance " was more appropriate, a more pronounced United Nations contract. I'm asking if there's never been any chance of going into these changes and changing the term. I guess this is as far as I can go in this first place.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u38	A respectable president. I believe that this bill's contract was fundamental to making changes necessary to further the issue. I have no doubt that in many laws, we know all sorts of terms and expressions that will probably change over the course of time. It may be that this work has been done here, and the focus that has been put on this now, calls for a person to go further on that subject. But at least, since I was involved in this matter, I have emphasized that we were trying to advance what we have control so that we are doing this right and validate it in the right way, but, as a result, we may have good reason to go further. I don't want to say anything at this point. But I think it's very important that this bill is treated on the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u39	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of this answer. In fact, I believe that if these definitions are to be changed, they may not be done in this session. However, there is no question that a change in the term use must be made so that the wording is simply in harmony with what the contract says, so to speak. I just want to point it to what. The General and Education Committee, to consider this matter, to keep this in mind and to the highest level. A secretary of her work continued at the Ministry. This is a point that I think it is very important to make sure that we do not have a discrepancy in a international agreement or in Icelandic law. Something else I'd like to ask the highest. Minister out there for the significance of the treaty. It is noted in the review of a disability study center that present defects are present and that they are simply in error. For example, it is noted that in paragraph 13. It is spoken of as being available to the legal system, which is translated into the English name ◯access to jostice, while the researchor points out that a more correct translation is an absolute value of justice to show. So I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers, whether it is as if the complete or final translation of the covenant has been made in English, or whether it alone should be reversed in order to obtain the correct understanding of the covenant. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u40	A respectable president. I don't know how to answer this one, two and three with this thing. Of course, if we start there, it is important that the covenant be translated into English. But if there is a problem or an inaccurate translation, it is just a project that needs to be done. I have not personally proved this to be so as to have an independent view of it. But I think it's in general that public evidence needs to reflect reality and real text. So I'll just take it from what? A member of the Ministry and the continued work involved. Whether this is simply an incorrect translation or a different view of certain translations - I don't know how to go any further into it at this point. We will, of course, look at it and continue to do this great work, which is, as well as at the turn of the day. A senator himself knows very well, has extensive size, and is important to success. I'd like to reiterate what I've said here that we at the State Department have had this matter very close to us in the work we're doing here, and it's important for us to get this bill into the council as soon as possible so that it won't be in the last spring to stay at the end of the council. I stress that this bill is accepted, and I believe the council is the same as I in that subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u41	Mr. President. First, I want to celebrate the return of this bill and the early program for the council this autumn. I think the bill as far as it's concerned is so important because it's very important to make the changes presented here to the term use so that we can, like the highest level. A minister earlier said in his advance discussion, completing the United Nations Convention on Human Rights. As I say, the bill works as far as it gets, because the basic elements here are merely word changes in which the word "flavoured" is replaced by the various transpospheric forms. But this must be done because the terms used in the law must be in harmony with the term use of the contract itself. Words are important, and it is the way we talk about people in the lyrics, and I'm not talking about people in a peripheral position, so it's a huge deal. It's like I walked into my opponent at the highest level. Ministers are disappointing to me, now that the bill appears for the second time, that there are no proposed material changes, such as changes in the definition of disability. This is still included in all of these definitions, which are in the medical sense of disability, which would be more correct in using the term '-impaired'. Such use of words would be in the spirit of the United Nations covenant, i.e. Of course, the agreement that these legal modifications are part of our ability to validate. So it has to be consistent, and this is probably something that needs to be done in the next steps. I don't know if there's anything that's wrong. The General and Education Committee can do this at her job or whether this needs to wait or go for further work at the Ministry. At least I think it's very important that this be kept in mind at work that lies ahead. Then, of course, it's amazing, like the highest. In his history, a minister came in, that with this bill, the death of an almost 200 - year - old decree on the authority of bishops is being canceled in order to give an exception to a political order. I'm actually going to have to read this directive, but it sounds like this, with President's permission: ▪ Now there is a baby on the ferry, a cripple, so it is difficult to come to a church for transportation, or it can be safe because of constant illness, or it has such great physical warmth, to come and interrogate in the church might cause a scandal; and then the bishop shall be permitted to allow it to be four in front of witnesses. I can't believe we're doing such a thing in law or order and deporting something like this in 2015. But this may tell us a lot about the situation in which the group is in, that we are not even closer when it comes to discussing disabled people at times, I don't really know which word is strong enough, such expressions are still found somewhere in the lyrics or directives that are in force. I am so happy when the bill is approved even if only because it goes out, although the changes in word are important, too. Like I came in earlier in my answer to the highest. The minister gave research into disability studies a pretty good review of the case during the last assembly, which I believe is very important for members of the committee to look and read. The research site makes a comment on the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Disappointments and points to some articles where they believe it is a wrong or at least misleading translation. It affects how the contract is interpreted and how it is used and treated. For example, it suggests the wrong translation of Article 13. The contract that bears the title ◯ Adoption of the legal system to be found in the Icelandic New World Translation. In English this article bears the title 'Access to justicice'. I agree with what research site in disability studies points out that these words, ◯access to justicice, have far greater significance than simply access to the justice system and therefore I like to say here rather access to justice. There are other factors that I think that need to keep in mind about continued work, if not exactly on the existing bill or because of the changes that may occur during the activities of the Committee, at least for the work we all know are in place to validate the agreement. The translation of the agreement has been a significant challenge, and one of the findings of the disability research centre points out that there are three versions of the agreements that all of them make, as they say, misconstructions, and none of them are correct. This, of course, is very unfortunate when it comes to an international human rights contract. Of course, this can be fixed, whether in the presence of the Committee or at later levels in the text from the Ministry. It is important that these be reviewed and the translations are good enough. Finally, I'd like to say that it is of utmost importance that the bills that concern people who are disabled in some way and will be submitted to the General Assembly from now on until the agreement on the rights of disabled persons has been valid - and indeed after that - but perhaps specifically suggesting that this work is completed - be from the beginning in accordance with the agreement. In this way, I refer not only to content but also to the correct use of terms and to the use of correct wording. In this way, we can save ourselves a tremendous amount of work not to follow up on expressions and changes in wording. During the discussion on this subject during the last assembly, I encouraged the highest level. The Minister of State to present these messages within the Council of Government, of course, because this is not just a matter of supreme interest. Minister of state and supreme. Social and housing minister, this is true of all the laws presented here, that their content and wording are in accordance with the UN Convention on the Rights of Distinguished People. To this all said, I'd like to repeat what I said at the beginning that as far as this bill reaches or maybe as dose as it goes by modification of word use and certain terms, of course, this is a necessary work to be done. I've described what I think needs to be considered at this job, but all said, I look forward to the approval of the bill, which will be a step in preparing for a contract made by the United Nations. I'm just looking forward to even more when we start seeing the bills that make changes in the law so that they will fulfill the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Disappointment.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u42	Mr. President. I'm just gonna get involved in this conversation. I have to agree with it. A senator went with me before me, i.e. the disappointment that we are not getting further into these matters and how heavy this seems to be, and that the bill is submitted again without considering or considering the comments received and what was read, for there are certainly serious comments when one of five articles in disability studies are listed. Of course, we all agree on that, I suppose, that the important is, like the highest. The minister came in, that they must read. I would have liked to see it done because the case has taken place before the council, and comments that we were putting forth the same issue. A general and educational committee in itself did nothing but agree with it with a slight change in word, and perhaps that is what leads to frustration in itself that it should not go further. I also think it is worth thinking of another comment that came from the Agency's services and knowledge center for blind, impaired and deaf-blind individuals, but the bill assumes that the name of the Agency will be changed. It is noted that there is not enough money to change all the educational materials, since both presentations and educational materials need to be redesigned, including considerable work and expenses. So we need to be careful now that we are going through 2nd. the financial resources involved, so it is actually possible to do this if the Agency does not feel that they have the money and that it is expected to come back in comparable cases now, I suppose, because the case is submitted or the above statements will be cited. It is so perhaps another thing when you think of the criticism that is revealed in their comments. It seems that, among the large numbers of those who came to the agreement and had been doing this work, the disabled people were not included, I think there was one person there. Because the community is inhibited, it is not the community either, and that makes you feel that those who are disabled or disabled must be the best way of pointing out ways to improve. Although we are here merely to discuss these changes in wording, the rest is all below us. As the minister said, it is being working on the big case, if I understand correctly, and it takes longer. When cases of disabled persons were transferred to the countryside, this move was to be reviewed last year. It's drawn, and it's about crowns and pennies, and it's actually possible to follow the underlying ideologies, i.e. increased and improved service to disabled people in close association. The projection program to be published in the bill, but later came up with a synonym. She had something to prepare for this validation. The result of this transfer, or transfer, and all of this was to be prepared for us; where do we need advice and where do we lack our facilities, etc. and the tribe was to be taken out a little bit. That may be what we are facing now, i.e. The council and the countryside. As we know, there has been a considerable talk of the problem in the community. We're talking about people, but mostly their equality for the access to the sofa, so it's important to consider, when you're talking about being a sensitive case group, that it's not being returned. When it comes to returning a legal group to the State, you imagine people might be upset that they are being returned. So we need to be careful how these matters are discussed, since the basis for the contract is valid. There's a proposal from quite a number of members, from all categories, I think. The government puts it out. Maybe it's not as simple as this one's suggested. I just don't know, because I think it's been spoken of as being so heavy and so many things have to change. I don't doubt it when I cross the rules here, i.e. The rights that are protected under the contract. It's amazing, though, that we are so close to ensuring human rights in one particular community and that it's not been in the long run, not just now, priorities. As I said before, this too turns to the fact that people are validated for participation wherever they are in the community. Of course, they do not experience it when the bioavailability is compromised or there is no access to it. 12th degree. says, I'm going to quote the council concluded by the president's permission: The contract stipulates self - determination rights of disabled people to the same extent that others do. People everywhere have the right to be recognized as law-enforced and should have their own sovereign capacity, and the Member States should ensure access to the needed support.◯ As I say, a great deal of offenses have been there, despite the fact that we have been trying to cope with a variety of measures, such as NA and so on. As shown in the 19th floor. With the contract saying that the right of disabled persons to live independent and without separateness, we're still on some experimental project, and it's still about that there's no guarantee of money left to follow this mission. That's one of the things we need 2nd. to consider, because it is independent of the contracts made with the rurals in connection with the transfer of the Party. I'm not gonna have my case very long, but you're a little sad that we shouldn't be further and that it's going so fucking slowly. To change the wording is certainly good; I will not belittle it. As I said, words are important, and these matters need to be handled as well as many others. But at the same time, I don't think it's really possible that we can go any further, even during this terms, even though I have hopes that we could make it. I'm counting on and I'm doing the best. Minister of the state to speed up that work, I may not trust that it will be the same, but things can be put first. Then each matter should go. Now we're dealing with this deal on the General and Education Committee. A contract on the rights of children has gone down, I think I'm on a board of administration and surveillance committee. These activities are usually related to a welfare committee. I also think it's part of it, maybe it's too long, and we're not efficient enough. It doesn't seem quite available, maybe all contracts are due to go to a management and monitoring committee, they have surveillance, I don't know. I feel that this should rather be part of a committee that makes up specific matters. It's certainly true that a welfare committee is all equal to those who are disabled, but this contract is with a global and educational committee. I'm so happy with this, every step is a good step, but we need to be careful and fix something that here was obviously not fixed now to the input of the case. The committee did not last, but I think that now we're all we can do is do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u43	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I just want to say something, especially about it as bad. A senator said it was 19th floor. The United Nations Convention on the Rights of Disappointment It contains the rights of disabled persons to their own lives, which, of course, is fundamental and has been building more and more on the surface of the entire discussion that the service form of disabled people is seeking, ensuring disabled persons living for themselves. Hv. In the context of the fact that the user - controlled personal assistance, NPA, is the kind of service that may be the main means of securing this independent life. There's a test project going on, there's something about 50 contracts. Actually, this test project is not to be called, but it's a project that's going on. But I acted on one word, and it's not just a matter of time. Rather, it is usually in an consideration of NPA that funding has not been guaranteed for the project. I would like to make comments to this expression, even though I realize that it is not a matter of time. A senator or something. It was made up of special approval at a convention resolution proposal that I insisted that NPA be one form of service in the law on the rights of disabled persons. What I just think is that there is no need for funding in the whole group of lawsuits, and there is no need for someone to take personal assistance in particular because personal assistance is more expensive than any other service. This, for example, was fine when the cost of each facility in the construction of the city of Reykjavík was attributed to the cost of each disabled person. [[The president calls.]] For example, he was more than a user - controlled personal help. [[The president calls.]] I think we should just say there's no money in the whole litigation party. [[The president calls.]] MPA is one form of service, and of course it has to be legalized. I'm sure that's what I'm gonna do. A senator agrees with me on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u44	Mr. President. It's true, and we're always, at least I'm trying to see if there's any problem with the wording. Like others, I have put it to the point that money is missing in the project because, whether we like it or not, the contracts were made for a certain time. I agree, however, with that, and we all agree that there is a shortage of money in the whole group of lawsuits. You see, it is true that such an expensive plan is often claimed. Like a 19th degree. It's a matter of time. paritaprevir It is more thoughtful than real. If we are to ensure that people have the right to live a life comparable to that of the adulteresses, then at least they have the opportunity to do so. Most of them, that's just so. It costs money, and it needs to be suggested. We don't argue about it. Then, of course, it's a priority. Do we want to put this group in a particular priority, the disabled, the welfare, or what it is now? when it comes to money that needs to be used for the ministry? We left green, and the government general, we've talked about it. I agree with what. A senator in it. I think we need to stay alert, as I have said today, to the 2nd. budget where we think priority is more important. If a government fund can be run with so - called profit or waste, which I have questioned, where lawsuits are annuled, I think we should prioritise our priorities. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u45	A respectable president. I'm happy as hell. A senator says and believes that we agree completely on these matters. When it is said that NAPA carries extra expenses, it must be said that the people who receive MPA should be in another less expensive service or that if they did not have a NPA contract, they would be in less expensive service, and therefore, NPA is an excess of expenses. I think people have to realize that it's not like that. MPA is a highly competitive form of service at expense, so talking about external expenses is misleading. This is simply a question of whether we are going to serve these people or not, and some other form of service is not much less expensive. When it comes to the benefits of the NAPA service formulation, the MPA wins. I think it's safe to say. The movement of the group to the rural community was a good step, although a reevaluation of how it was given in all of its parts and may have been considered as a workmate. But it's coming to the surface that these people haven't been in the ministry. In many cases, this has been the service of relatives. That's what's coming up on the surface. Now this is a political reality that we face during our council and the bigger and more political question facing: Will we continue to do so? Is it political, and is it more beneficial? Are we not going to give us life and strength in the ministry? [[The president calls.]] It contains one of the best forms of service because it has so much improvement.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u46	Mr. President. I agree with the senator about the benefits as well as the improved quality of life that is being enjoyed by people with close service. I would agree with that, with both day - to - day financial conferences of rural society and visiting rural communities, not only in their own interest but also elsewhere, we are invited to a financial committee where this is presented. It's not necessarily given out, it's just like the senator said, we've got a lot of people who've been given up by their relatives, and they've never even had public strength, they've just been taking care of it themselves. In time, parents or others are not able to care for their children anymore because of age or otherwise, and they come on the board of rural society, which includes being revised. The group of languages may have been unfunded in that not everything was on the surface. We need to look to this in the long run because we have children and young people who were in a particular frame of life and then when individuals became adults, they took a different framework for financing. I agree that we need a variety of resources, no matter whether it is MPA or something else, we need a variety of resources so that people can choose to serve in order to improve their quality of life. I think there's a number one, two and three... that there's some equality in life... and there's life to those who are not dressed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u47	V.E.G. President. I'm just going to add words in the discussion on this matter and, above all, rejoice that this proposal should be submitted again but, at the same time, expressed with great sadness that she should not have been approved at the spring council in which the matter was settled from a General Education Committee in March to remind me. At that time, there may have been other more important matters in some estimates, such as a structured strategy, which made it possible for the cases that should be my priority at the council to be of no discussion and were not satisfied, which means that this case is delayed for more months and slows down in bringing in the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people even more and now is enough. When you start to think about it, I've only been doing it, and I've been dealing with people who have this party on their shoulders, and who have been for years or decades, even then it would have been best just to accept this deal right away and then to attack the changes that have to be made on all these laws. Of course, that would have been the best thing to do. It's like those big-time callers that buy a turban to keep it up for sure it's going to be activated or something like that. That's the way it should have been done. I welcome the changes being made to introduce this deal. You can sense that they are becoming incredibly tired of this waiting and of the incredible discrimination in society toward disabled people. There are still obstacles, especially in bioavailability issues. It is enough to mention the entrance to the U.S. Marshal's agent, who cannot get to the front of those who are disabled. It's just one example. We went forward in the fall, sort of at the same time as this proposal was submitted again, a bill to correct the adjustment of the regulations of various laws of discrimination to help the government and the Minister in bringing in the changes needed to be made. This was done by the initiative of Freyja Haraldsdóttir's daughter, who was sitting here serving as a deputy in charge of trouble. paritaprevir Steingrímsson Steingfursson this fall. I hope, Ministers and senators, that these too will be paid quickly. As I say, we are trying to help that agreement become legalized as all first, and we abandon the violations of human rights that we commit to these people every day because we do not allow them to participate in life, especially when we judge their rights to their own lives, which we have shown up in the matter. Senators back in the past, how good it is for people who can enjoy that help! They have become active members of society, paying taxes, taxes, and responsibilities to society, and living on their own. Just listening to the descriptions of people who are able to enjoy this service is amazing, truly wonderful. I remember last year that Daði Hreinsson, director of the Deaf, spoke of an increase in money in interpretation services and employment services that would save millions, even tens of millions of people a year, if we made it possible for them to go out and work amongst the public instead of accepting the government's compensation to 190 thousand a month, they would save the country's income if they could be at work. There are plenty of people in the community who are fully capable of working, but they need help with what we are to provide here. You wonder, " Wait, what's the priority? ' Money is always being talked about and how much it costs. Last week last week, almost every fellow community I came to be hurt by the expense of the disabled. It is evident that this series of lawsuits must be taken for reexamination and that the funds needed to live up to our social obligations toward these people. We have a long way to go. I can quote Bryndís, the daughter of Snæbjörnsdóttir, chairman of the National Institute of Development, with the permission of a president: ▪ The theme of the contract is the right of disabled persons to live their own lives and to make decisions about their own lives. It says that we are still far off by fulfilling these human rights. THERE is no way to view people with developmental inhibition as being recognized and respected in the community. This requires that governments face up to it and take the necessary action by the laws and regulations, financial management, administrative and efficient monitoring of the project. True, this work is being done that is praiseworthy, but it is slow, and people continue to be smart. This may be illustrated by the fact that this morning was the best. Vice President, Kristján Möller, as the first carrier, proposes a resolution of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Infirm People. I just hope that the proposal will be taken for quick treatment and that we will just agree with it and then work hard to meet the requirements to be met. I remember talking here in spring that I encouraged the highest. The Minister of the Isthmian Church to have much communication with disabled persons at all jobs that they turn to because there are no better opportunities to tell what the service should be and how it is best to have it than those who need it. People who are disabled. Sadly, there has been far too much failure for disabled people and those who have to use this service, not just disabled ones, but in every aspect of their lives, to be included in nothing. There is no way to consult with these people. I think it would be a great improvement to get these things through and do them right. Exactly like what. Árnadóttir It is important that we try and do this properly, both in translation and in the way of our service. Unfortunately, we hear too many reports of failure, e.g. for the travel services of the disabled. It is often so frightening that you cannot believe in the 2015's to treat people in a civilized society. It's got a lot of broken pots. I'm sure we can get our shit together to change this. It takes a change of mind, not just with governments, us members of Congress, but with all the community. Once we get it, it'll get lighter. I hope that the bill we gave, the Council of Bjarts, this fall, will also be given a very quick payment. It's about banning discrimination, changing laws such as penalties and administrative law, remuneration of remuneration and patients' rights where the term "observation" is added or "stealed" is added. I know it's the highest. The Minister of the Interior is not on his side. She has shown it since she came here to work that a person with a good heart and a good spirit is doing all things, if I may say so. She won't lie on her team to get it forward, as she said in her speech, and I don't doubt it. I have full faith in it. It will receive all the support from me and us in a bright future, which is highly motivated to produce these changes and remain this contract as soon as possible. That would be the most amazing thing in all. I really hope that at this council, we will succeed in establishing the United Nations agreement on the rights of disabled people. That would be a good blow for all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u48	A respectable president. I don't see any reason to extend this discussion very much, because all of this has been shown in the case of members of Congress I'd like to have said. I just want to agree with it and thank you for this very up-to-date discussion. These songs are supposed to clear out a few words, and I'm sure it's time. This may be the only benefit if you've been teaching the penalties because the word of an ass is in these parts, covering the killing and physical abuse chapters with young people, that they tend to look at these things, and then this has given you reason to deal with the change of society, how this word has been used over the course of time. How beneficial and pleasant it has been to discuss these conversations with young people about how these have developed! I can see that I have to start teaching material that's gonna keep this thing safe because it's important that they put themselves in on how the wording has changed over the course of time. A cold as a dog. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra read to us and contained the word cripple - such texts often give you the opportunity to cover social changes. When you use the word "social change, " young people never think of anything at all, but there are such texts that give you meaning, and we can learn from them. Regarding the word "stupidice" then, I just thought -- because perhaps the British uses the 'Justuice' of Jussicice, or such, that there might be an explanation. If you wonder why every word that is long spoken in spoken language is so long in the law, then it must be because the government is always working for itself again. She's on her knees financially. Everybody's running for it. Why did we present the subjects of the disabled? It's been a few years, and it's all fucked up. It's a big deal to sort it out, and the pressure on the people who are working on it is enormous and for us to figure out what it's all about, who's the influential ones out there. There's a time press, a budget is being made, and this needs to be available in November, some solutions. It's all under intense pressure to figure this out, and then we'll see that running a modern society with no more people requires a great deal of all. I think the current government should consider making better use of income resources to have money to do those tasks that will yell at us wherever we can look. I don't see reason to extend this to such a situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u49	A respectable president. I'm going to make this case my third time. Even more important than ever, we at the Battle of the Future, feel that a policy must be developed, reasoned, based on demand for support, who should be the nation's currency for the future, and how to achieve certain goals by that currency. The case has always received very positive comments from reporters who have placed the economic and business committee on this issue, which has not been very high, but the reviews have been positive for the sector and others. It's a good thing for me to make a recommendation today on the 7th anniversary of the crash. It is not exactly a festival day, October 6, but it has become a reminder day, a day of review, the day that the then prime minister asked the Almighty to bless us. For one thing, it was not just the banking system that fell on that day but also the currency's success. As has been noted several times by economists and others, the collapse of Iceland's economy, the collapse of the banking system, also the collapse of the currency. That is why it was a bank crisis and a currency crisis. The currency crisis was shown in that a large amount of capital had been made. The crown had been way too strong for a long time, and it was built up by an artificial world of quality in countries that had half the discount. This was not on a solid basis. We saw, if not placed in a currency, that all this money would flow out of the country, and the dollar would fall from the floor with the related inflation and terrible consequences to the living values of people, and we were able much to feel the water of tea. If it wasn't for a currency, it would've been much worse. The currency capitals we still live on and have been hardened after this incident should be obvious judgment and testimony to the fact that there is a dollar, so I'll let myself say so, at any rate not faultless and probably more than that. There's a lot of equipment for a dollar, at least Unorthodox, she threw away this little nation and our client, our situation. So bluntly has it been said by the bank manager that he has said, I don't remember how he said it exactly, but he once in an article that the experiment made at the turn of the century to have a free floating crown in an international business environment failed. In September 2012, the cause of the collapse was published because of this currency crisis, a very extensive report by the National Bank on the choice of Iceland in currency and gangs. The conclusion is that two options are practical and that the political must take a stand against them, either euro, through a contract with the European Union or a dollar in some kind of oceans. That is the reality. This report by the National Bank, along with other factors, gives rise to our controversies. We want the Allied Parliament to take the report seriously. It's a fine, comprehensive and very good analysis of what's going on in Iceland. Now we have to decide how this will last forever. I think it's extremely urgent, and maybe it's fine for that right now. It's a reversal of the state's budget. We should be able to discuss these matters. But we must not be careless. There are signs of persecution. We see evidence that classic Icelandic economy error may be in progress. They're supposed to reduce income taxes, but they drive more on consumer taxes, I think. This was done a great deal in 2007 and is not a sustainable policy in terms of government. We build a good deal of business with foreigns mainly because there is a rise in touristism. How self-sustained is that going up? How permanent? Are we investing in infrastructures in tourism to ensure that it will be permanent? Is this possibly the classic Icelandic story of one-manity that we're facing? There are a lot of pay increases based on excessive labour market intolerance, the lack of trust, which can be traced back to the lack of trust in the economy. The currency collapses as he did, and for one reason, it has been difficult to create a workforce for long - term goals and stability. They're going to do a lot of major projects that will have an impact on this small economy, and they're making rural governments, just saying, under the terms of the budget, they have to stay on when it comes to investing in the infrastructure. For one thing, we have this small economy of the crown. We are going to take a big step in subsiding capital capitals by actually confiscating some 300, 400, 500 billion of the property of foreigners in the country. There are demands for the old bank farms, foreign demands. In other words, our practicality in the New World Translation is described as "no way, " so there is no way, there is no way, that these people can take it out of the country. The Icelandic dollars cannot handle this kind of funding transport. It's quite interesting that this is accepted. The foreigners, or foreign demands, are prepared to give up these requirements because they see it too. It's really just worthless paperwork because it's Icelandic. They can't be moved out of the economy. How unfashionable is it really about the Icelandic crown's reality that it does not handle the financial transport between countries to any extent? To the future, that will be the reality if we are going to have a dollar. The question facing is simply the question: Do we accept it? There may be a wide variety of financial transports. Businesses, communities, government services, for example, need to be paid off. This can affect the way things go. Business - tied to foreigns can turn around and down the streets. We simply have a currency that will treat poor international capital transport. I think it's obvious. At this point, of course, when we are going to take a significant step in removing seas, the question is, What future will be the result of all these actions? Will the problems of the old ones be solved even if they are removed? Does all of this mean that we can have a free dollar with free capital transport? Does anyone believe in that? If not, then, must we not consider alternatives? With this suggestion, we are not saying that we should record the euro. In fact, we host the future, thinking that it would be a good way - but not faultless, never flawless - no better way for us to pick up Euro than for a crown. I view it as a view that I agree with the 2012 Court's analysis because I interpreted it as being a nonprobable, better way than a dollar. In itself, we simply ask for an open discussion on the future arrangements for currency. We suggest that the decision to make a decision is made on the basis of several conditions for the future taxpayer. We want, no matter what currency will be determined, the long - term use of the currency will increase trust in the Icelandic economy. I believe it may be held that a dollar, at least as it has been used by us, did not increase that trust. I think we see it in a job market situation, for example, as I spoke briefly here. There's no trust. The Icelandic economy has been highly fluctuated, often seen in the most strange fluctuations of personal consumption, as attributed to the findings of the World Bank, and people do not seem to trust in the long - term stability. I think that's why this is so much of a bad labour agreement, that's not trust. There is no trust on the basis. So we say: The use of the currency must strengthen confidence. A great deal of effort must be made to reach that goal. We want the currency to increase the potential for stable prices, lower growth and higher standard of living. A lot of attention is now being given to housing issues. Among other things, they were very much discussed during the district of districts in the southwestern district with rural authorities. They are very aware that they are lacking in apartments for young people. We are often in this hall discussing all kinds of things, how we should expand the supply of small apartments or increase the availability of apartments over our heads. There is no question that apartments are too small for population development. There are all kinds of ideas, the last one was that the government should simply go to building these apartments. I think a lot of people are aware, at least many of the local authorities are aware of this, and I believe many members of the council also see that the high financial cost in Iceland is, of course, one of the greatest obstacles in this road to building up a supply on rented apartments, small apartments, and so forth. High interest. Since there is too much risk in the Icelandic economy, we argue that this is part of the currency, and it needs to be discussed at all. And will we ever try to establish a housing system in Iceland, where there may be an increase of 152%? Is it out of the picture? If it's not out of the picture, then how will we do it? Is not the currency obviously something to discuss in that context? Or do we just have a 152% interest in the movie, and we've come to terms with it? This, of course, is a fundamental question. We want the currency to increase freedom in business with foreign countries. We do not enjoy freedom in business dealings with foreign countries. Although we're taking steps to remove the problem, I think it's an illusion in many respects that we're going to be exposed to unopposed capital transport at the end of those steps. If we want to be free in business with foreign countries, I think we need to discuss the financial arrangements. We want the currency to be suitable for Icelandic employment, to have a good effect on the level of employment and export. We maintain that stability and foreseeability in currency spending will contribute to the growth of employment and diversity. It's also well traced to the Cordla Bank's diagnosis. We want the currency to facilitate economy, reduce the risk in the Icelandic economy, and be less risky than other options. I'd like to put a clear focus on this. We are not talking about the existence of something that is totally flawless. Everything has flaws. It's a question of what has the smallest flaws. So we want currency policy to be successful, in view of other concomitant measures needed in the area of government, money, and agreements with other countries. [[The president calls.]] There may be one of the biggest barriers to recording euro that the government seems to have bitten the fact that it is not wise to walk in the EU.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u50	A respectable president. I thank the couriers for this excellent suggestion that I believe is both timely and timely. It is good for each nation to discuss its currency. That's good. I just wanted to take this opportunity and thank you for a delivery guy, okay? paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson's son, for introducing this. It may be that a currency can build trust in the economy. Currencys don't do things, they're equipment. For example, in Greece, which uses a very stable currency, the euro, it has not created any particular trust around what is going on there. On the contrary, it has been understood that the euro and the part of Greece were more difficult to deal with. Similar things happen in Cyprus and even Spain, where bank books had to be evaluated. Only a certain number of Euros were allowed out of their bank book in Spain. This happens with a coin that is expected to be a real option for Iceland. I want to ask you why. A senator: Does he not agree that the only thing that we can really trust in the Icelandic economy is that we act wisely? That we make good decisions in what we are doing in our business and that in any measure of conduct, we are being counseled and practical, no matter what the currency is? In fact, no matter what currency we would have, the U.S. dollar, euro, a dollar, or anyone else, if we mismanage ourselves in business or take undesirable risks, we are trust in business.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u51	A respectable president. I appreciate the question. I think this is very important when it comes to this matter of currency, to face the fact that no economy is ever flawless. The currency is, I don't think, the only cause of economic unrest or the only cause of a major rise. I think the story that the Baltics have to say about euro recording may be quite different from the story they say in Greece. Yet the Greeks still wish to have Euro. It's true that the currency is a tool, it's a device, but a device matters. If you're going to nail a nail, it's important that you have a hammer instead of a screwdriver, the device has to work. Of course, it's important that you do well with this device. But that's what we're always talking about. As far as I'm concerned, when we're talking about options on currency, we're simply wondering what kind of equipment would be best for the Icelandic economy. I think it is all too much relativity to say that all the devices are the same, that euro, which is the currency of the European Union, which our main share of export goes to - a very large currency area, supported by the European bank, one of the world's biggest coins - is just the same device as a dollar that is a tiny currency. It might be reasoned that he is the smallest person in the world and without condemnation of such a small nation having an independent currency in this way. Yeah, let's talk about it. Are these tools the same? Do they share with us when we are due? And can we achieve the same objective entirely by both currency?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u52	A respectable president. These are excellent speculations. I think we agree that perhaps the currency alone could have been read from the subject of the bill. I understand that we agree that what matters most is how we act, the currency is a tool that we use to do this business. They also say it's very important, I don't know if it's on this bill, that the currency takes into account the economy that's being used. For example, those living in Germany have lived in Euro, which takes into account what is happening in Germany, is strengthened when things are going well in Germany, and may get sick when they need to expand export. If we were to take up the euro, which is primarily concerned with the focus of this economy, the euro coin area, it could not be expected that when something happens here, the euro would take this into account. Or perhaps when we especially needed a weak currency, the euro would be strong, even strengthened, when we needed to think that it was sick and vice versa. Iceland's eco-efficiency balance with the European economy does not appear to be very or very small. I'm quoting a presentation from Iceland's National Focal Bank, held of options on currency issues and what needs to be considered; this is a lecture from the Society of Teachers in high school on September 4, 2015, quite recent. The G. Pétursson explains that there is very little correlation, and this could lead to bringing in problems by picking up euro, since the euro was growing stronger when we need a weaker currency and making us weaker when we need a stronger currency. She would never take anything into account our economy. However, the bill specifically refers to this as improving the economy and improving the interests of the industry. [[The president calls.]] I don't see how it goes together.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u53	A respectable president. First, it does not plainly say in the synonym that the currency will gain trust but that it is the use of the currency as a means of trust. But we're always talking about this device that the currency is designed to make its use, its practical use of this currency in an economic way, to increase trust. It is well explained that in my analysis of the 2012 National Bank on the currency and its contribution to the low cost of a certain game in international commerce, we can say, as well as through the politicians in earlier gangs, significantly affect the behavior of this nation, the conduct of the common people. So the currency - yes, potentials it holds for plagiarism throughout the 20th century, for political intervention, and for saluting the selfish interests; the currency created this design, it is such a tool for this currency. It did not build trust in Icelandic economy. He's increased distrust. I think the lesson we are learning now is simply that - I covered it in my speech - that there is no trust in foreigners in the Icelandic crown that they are prepared to give up all their requirements for money paid in Icelandic dollars. It's not just a few crowns, it's supposed to be several hundred billion. But they are quite willing to do so because they see it all, it's obvious, it's a reality, that these crowns are worthless. It means to me that you don't have much confidence in that currency, and you might think about in the future, if you want to have such a currency or invest in it or make money in it. [[The president calls.]] Isn't it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u54	A respectable president. I'd like to thank you again for the opportunity involved in this council resolution proposal to cover Iceland's future currency. As I said before, I think it is good to regularly wonder if there is a suitable currency here and if there should be other currency, even what currency is, and what we really expect from a good currency. I would like to agree with the movers of this council that one of the most important roles of the State is to ensure that the land is a functioning currency, trust and trust, which helps the economy reach its goals and not create instability in itself, does not lead to some kind of fluctuations in man. However, we do, as is indicated in the Sermon on the Mount. Guðmundsson Steingrímsson, who suffered a tremendous tragedy in money matters. So it is quite disappointing to wonder whether it is the currency himself that is the problem and whether there is no way to control it over a head, whether we need to take counsel from others in it, and to be used in our internal economy, a currency employed by foreigners because they are smarter than we and better at this project. I still don't think we're capable of running the system we call currency. Let me just explain why I don't think it's fully developed. During the period since the bat was founded in 1961, the dollar has lost 99.7% of its purchase power. The secretor's job was to preserve the dollar's money, try to preserve financial stability, and buy the currency. It was a total failure. How could it get so bad? In the early decades, we had a bank, a bank owned by the State, but ruled by political powers. I think that the four or any group that was then in power changed between these banks and printed money for the others and the ones that needed to borrow from banks, that was likely those who had chosen the right sort of money to be paid. This is the worst possible application of trying to control the amount of money. We experienced in 1980 or 1981, if you remember that Iceland's inflation was 83%, and at the same time money amount was raised by 80% in the country in one year. There has been little discussion of the correlation between the increase in money and the inflation of it. The work people in the country were more spoken of as making unrealistic demands for raises and something like that, the headlines, the people of GvendurJaki, and the professional life gave in to them, the ganging for the seabed, and so on. It was all a mess. But we are not doomed to repeat all that mistake again. We should really study what really went on before we jump into the arms of those who may not be doing better in the European Union. When I start looking at the euro's currency alliance and what's going on there, I don't like it. Every bank has very little of its own money. They cannot help Greece out of its economic problems because Germany does not care enough about Greeks to lend them money. We're trying to find out that in order to solve Europe's debt problems with the euro, the County Bank will think of creating more debts, not a little bit more, but to raise the debt by 1,200 billion euro. I think it was 60 billion a month in a row. It was a loan, all this money to keep the show going. I am deeply concerned that this empty money printing will not save the currency alliance. Her aim was to prevent disaster, try to get the wheels started, put money into the economy, but they can't think of anything better than borrowing the money in traffic. Why not give this money to the government and protect it by making infrastructure, improving health systems, and so forth? What happens to those money today is that they will all be used for divination. It does nothing but lead to property vaccination, increase in stock markets, real estate markets, and so forth. I don't trust them better than the ancient Icelanders to run for us a currency. But I trusted us well so as to recognize how to do things better. I think that there's nothing obvious about what needs to be done, and there's no evidence to calm down getting a hired foreign currency to run our internal business. I don't agree with it because we should try to try to make an Icelandic dollar that is eligible for business in some part of the world. We can use American dollars and euro and yen in business with other nations. All we're supposed to use and demand from our currency is that he saves us the cost of renting to other people's currency in order to own our transactions within the country. That is the most brilliant way because that currency we can make from nothing, we don't need to borrow it from one person or anyone. These are just numbers in a bank book, yes, or paper slips that we print at low cost. A currency does not have to be worth anything in itself. It does not have to be made of gold or diamonds or anything expensive. He is, in effect, more valuable than what he is. Gold isn't currency, it's backup. For example, if we were to record gold as currency, which I'm glad was not suggested in this suggestion, we would have to borrow a huge gold reserve and use it in our business, and it's expensive. What is absolutely free of charge is to create a currency with no agreement that with these units, all debts and taxes in the country can be paid, and then to make sure that there is not too much unity and that there is not an increase in the amount that has been done so far. In 2008, the amount of money we use in our daily business increased 19 times. Then I'm talking about money that's deep down, which can be used to pay taxes. A ban was permitted 19 times that time. What was the late bank thinking, the bank to make sure that financial stability was being maintained in Iceland? Why didn't he grab in and say, "Hey, I think you guys are making a little too much money for the economy? In fact, banks were making six times as much money as they needed to meet the growth of the real economy. I agree with what. A messenger that makes such nonsense seem to be totally unacceptable in the money management. However, we are not doomed to continue to do so. We're supposed to keep an eye on how much money is growing in Iceland. It happened here as in the 1980's, that the money economics or monetists lost all credibility when it was found that the correlation disappeared between the increase in money and inflation, which had been relatively strong up to 1970, 1980. The Monetists could not explain why it was all at once possible to increase the amount of money and without the foretold inflation. Economists said that the amount of money is just an extra size, left-over size. Now, however, we see, and economists are finally beginning to realize that the extra money that did not enter the financial system went into the financial market. By 1970, 1980, there will be great freedom zones in all financial markets in all countries. It came here in full force in 1980, 1990, and then we also saw the connection between money growth and inflation. It is interesting to consider, for example, what is going on in Denmark today. There the amount of money is increasing, and living prices are rising to the level of it. We have to start monitoring the amount of money, not just the inflation that is taking place in the real economy, i.e. the value of the science, the quality of the relic as well. This is where we're looking at the increasing real estate prices. Could this be because the bat is printing too much money or some of the business banks? We need to keep much more control on how much money is made. Even if we were to pick up other people's money, some foreign currency like the euro, it might be hard to resist the fact that there would be an enormous amount of euro that would produce real prices without our ability to handle it, and then it would run out again the next day. That happened in Greece. Just after they received the euro, they had no chance of growing. There's money coming in. What's the situation now? Today, the interest is high, and money is lacking in Greece. The banks need to be reimbursed regularly. I think it's a real need and a good discussion and I want to thank you for it. I see my time is running out, but I'm celebrating this Senate resolution and I'm looking forward to covering it at the council scene.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u55	President. Although I'm not going to extend it much, I'd like to open up on this discussion. I wholeheartedly agree with this suggestion that the currency and how we will treat him in the future and what we will do in the national currency is one of the greatest economic projects we have in our lives. I recall that at a conference I attended at the University of Iceland a year ago or that was just the case. As we know, we now live in the oceans, so we can be said to be in an artificial environment. Men have often asked how to lift the seas. It has been said that only the first step is to rebuild the swelling farm of banks now in progress. Yet, we look forward to doing so, if it is done according to this forced agreement, for another six to ten years will be in the head. The people of the land will live on with their currency. We won't be able to deal with it so much because we can go abroad and get a currency, and we can buy ourselves a car, it's not yet time to get a license for cars like this before, but we can't sell our property if we want and buy a house in Denmark. Thus we live in currency, and we will do so forever. At the conference I mentioned earlier, it was said that the first step was to fix up the swelling. Then I recall an errand that Ásgeir Jónsson had there. Then I'll talk to people later. Then, in the case of Ásgeir, men who are correct and clearly stated that freeing the banks and fixing up the surface would be just one small step because our problems before collapse and growing problems now were the difference between intervening and growth differences here and in Europe. Money is being poured back here to seek fruit in higher interest, which is better off not too much. There'll be a lot more money around here, like a cool. paritaprevir Frosti! Sigurjónsson Sigurionsson! I'm not in the business, Mr. Honorable President, though, that to deal with it, we'll make our own lunch money, which we'll split up here. If we're going to use some other coin in foreign business, we're still on the line that the companies are in one place and the people are somewhere else. We know that there is already a large business in this country with a foreign currency rather than us. It has been so here that the crown's gangs have actually been directed toward the needs of the fishing road, and so the number has been cut down at certain intervals. It comes with, most dignified president, quite a massive property transfer from employees to companies in the export. I can't see that we can avoid always being in this direction unless we find a solution to the currency. Then I think the only solution is to pick up and stay in the shelter of another bigger currency. Then people have always said, " We only associate with the euro. ' But neither will it work, Mr. Honorable President. It's been tried here too. I don't remember exactly when it was, but it's been tried too. What happens? Politicians decide to hook up with the euro or with some non-politan bankers, but they're men, and then they come up with some sort of crisis, and then it's so easy to say, "No, we're done, we're not going to be connected to the euro anymore. - It won't be until we become part of this large body and have that support and much more, not just support, but the discipline that is from being a part of another currency. Happily, in the past five years, we have changed greatly, and the way we acquire foreign currency has changed very much. Now that it has become, we have about 25% - the team is slightly lower. We've got the water main, we've got the tourist service, and we've got the team. The point is that we can make our job life around here varied so that it will be easier for us to be part of a bigger currency area because not all of us do business and stuff like that. That's why this goes hand-to-hand. If we make our job life more varied, we can become a part of a bigger coin area. One thing that's really happy is that when you look at cookies right now, I'm going to let me call them cookies, which show the exchange of how we pull out the goods, there's something called a two-digit number. What else is this? There are computers and engineering agencies that work abroad. That is, then, the work of knowledge. He's got two figures, and that's a big deal. We need to strengthen it so that we become more like the world around us, so we can associate with it in currency. That's what I'd like to say, a respectable president. I'd like to finish my case by saying that now it's per person that Icelandic economy's main problem is what wages are raising a lot in Iceland. I just want to protest it. In Iceland, pay has been low. There are still certain wages in Iceland much too low, e.g. Officers. They need to go up. We must make that requirement for employment, where it is a good practice for them to make practical adjustments and to get their work to the point that they can pay decent wages. In view of the public, to pay good money to government employees, they need to stop canceling all kinds of fees and taxes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u56	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir for an interesting talk in many places. First, I want to agree with her comments about the pay of cops and others, and I think that we should keep an eye on paying these classes a decent salary, especially for those who don't have the right to strike. I feel so ashamed of how long they have had to wait for their release. I mean, about now you're seeing Iceland's financial resources growing, and all the professionals get terrified, I don't think it's the same problem that may have been here before. It seems to me that a large proportion of people, I'm not saying at all, all of them, who get greater power use it to reduce their debt more quickly. That's good. The commitments of the households have been dropping rapidly in Iceland, including Because when people gain increased money, they see the importance of being less debt. I'm fully aware that this does not apply to everyone, but it's a bigger group than before a crisis. Many lessons have been learned from what has been going on here. It's terrible to be in debt when something's wrong in the economy. The question I wanted to direct to. The candidate had the cover of the euro or a large currency or coin - sharing. Has a what? A senator watched the shelter offered by the Greeks in this cooperation, a currency alliance? No doubt they were assured that if they picked up the euro, everything would work out well, and they would have little interest and much security. It looks like there's jam and asthma. They have been allowed to cope with their own problems, to sell government property, to pay has been reduced by dozens of percent, debt has not been dropped. This is not to say that the euro dropped anything in Greece, their homes continue to owe what they owe, but their wages have been reduced, they were reduced by hand, and many have lost their jobs. How can it be better when problems arise in this way? Does this not bite the common people?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u57	A respectable president. I'm not going to give a defense talk about how the problems that have been faced in Greece have been. However, it is evident that the Greeks were not making very wise use of their government and financial resources. They were very debtable. There are all kinds of groups, some islands that do not pay taxes, and the large builders, who are then mostly wearing ships that have been more or less taxless. So the money money in Greece was out of order. I also find a bit interesting that the Greeks in the evil economic problems they are still choosing to be in the currency business. If they hadn't been inside it, they would have dropped the coin, that's perfectly clear. But then the people in the country would also have lost because, as with failure, they would then have become a capitalization. I'm talking about that I think it's better to be disciplined by being in a big coin system than in the little coin system we're in. But I'm not going to commit to defending the actions of the European Bank or the European Union. [[The president calls.]] I just don't think it's part of this conversation, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u58	A respectable president. I hope I didn't cause the misunderstanding that I was praying. A senator defending the types of money banks of the European Union, I think it's completely undefeated. However, regarding the fact that discipline can be transferred by adopting a currency by other people, it was not successful for Greeks to do so. Why should the Icelanders succeed? I agree that many things went wrong in Greece's economic regime in the leading of this collapse, but it might as well have been that they had suffered natural setbacks in their foreign business or something else, something they weren't taught. I think it's a little strange to say that somehow it's the Greek public, that's why he can blame himself. I think that's harsh. I feel that this incident in Greece suggests that there is not enough agreement between Germany and Greece, not enough understanding of the different communities of these nations. As a result, when it comes to helping the Greeks, the Germans rise up and say, "We're not gonna do this with our tax dollars. " That's the problem. Hv. One senator says that the Greeks are pleased with the euro that they do not want to walk out of the currency alliance. Everyone knows that it is not easy to replace a currency alliance. It's much harder than getting involved. As soon as some manager coughs up the door of a currency alliance, the currency will be rushed at the same time. All money escapes land. At least it has to happen suddenly, so it's done overnight. Never admit that an exit is about to begin. I think the Greeks are fully aware that all their possessions would be completely unremarkable if such plans were to be promoted. Therefore, they are trapped in the euro and are fully aware of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u59	President. I want to correct the fact that I said that the economic problems of the Greeks were at the hands of the common people. [[Up front.]] I said there was a mismanagement of government affairs. I hope so. A senator realized that it is quite another for the public to misbehave themselves or governments to be mismanagement of financial government. There are two differences. I'm still on it. He said that no one should cough up that the Greeks are going to replace the currency business, can't be done because they'll get money out of the country. Yeah, that's right, but if someone came up here and said that all they had was to do was put a bunch of cash in Iceland, then there'd be quite a turnoff, or a raid on an Icelandic dollar, and the buck would go out and that'd be a tan, that's for sure. I'm not talking about someone having shelter from this, I don't think I used the word for shelter, I think I used the word... [[Up front.]] All right, I'll take it back. What I meant is discipline. That's discipline from having a bigger currency team. If I have used the word refuge, it was discipline that I meant. It's a thrill to have a bigger currency team. I think there's also some misunderstanding. A senator who doesn't show empathy, and Germany doesn't want to pay with his money. The Germans have first sent a lot of money to Greece. [[The president calls.]] The European Achillesian in the currency business is naturally that the relationship itself has nothing to say about the government. [[The president calls.]] That's why governments can act unwisely. [[The president calls.]] It's not the public.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u60	A respectable president. I want my second speech to come up only with how we could, if we decided that we still want to have a cent after carefully reviewing the problems that are now affecting the European currency union and the perimeter states that have taken up coins while we are considering it. I think this is a good time to consider it because when the recent report was conducted in 2012 at the Federal Bank, working until that time, the European currency union crisis was not fully established. Since it is up to date, although it has not yet been solved, it may be very good to retake the pulse on whether it is still the View of the Secret Bank that it is here that a currency alliance is a practical option in view of the calamities that have fallen over the countries that have taken up this coin and entered the Cub Coalition. And what must be done if we are to adopt the discipline we have. In his talk, a senator mentioned that it was necessary to create such a currency alliance. I agree that there is a need for discipline in the economy, but we can still experience tragedy, which is not a lack of discipline, but a lack of financial resources or because there are two, three eruptions at the same time when the wood is missing. It would not be a lack of discipline. Rather, it would be a economic crisis that would have to be dealt with by failure. It's not possible if we're in a currency alliance, and then everyone in the country that gets hit will decide to move their money out of the country because there's clearly not going to be a good profit in the country soon, the country's gonna have to recover from the shock, and if you're a owner, you're gonna take the money out of the country. There's nothing to stop you because there's no restrictions on money transfer. The amount of money is sucked out of the country, and the crisis deepens. Who's left behind? Working people who can't easily take themselves out of the country, such as those who own possessions and make their assets work for them. They move their money out of the country in euros, that's great. They are saved, but the remaining ones are in a deeper crisis because their money is now lacking in the country. Then Merkel needs to be called and asked if there are any Germans available to finance the bank, which are private banks, but are completely without money. And she says, "Yes, it's all right, but we'll have to get a mortgage." The money in the banks is finished and doesn't mean much because Iceland's assets have been lost. But if the state brings a pledge to the resources of the country, the falls and the activations, let's refinance this private bank. This is what's happening in Greece. The funding the banks are receiving is called for government weather. The debt of the Greek State has increased from 100% to 180% during the German and German bank relief operations. Who pays the taxes? It's common in Greece. Or like a cot. A senator put it this way: The wealthy in Greece have long been getting their money to Tortola and have paid no taxes. It's the public. What's done? The value tax has been raised. He was 12%, wasn't he? Isn't he far up for that? It's been made to hit the ground completely on working people. I know it's a good mind that comes with this, we want to protect the public, but unfortunately it's that of two evils it's worse to be in a currency alliance than to have independent coins. The crown is as old as ever. The crown is the factor that if this is an economic crisis and we see that the economy will not be as rich as before for some time, the currency will fall, and all the owners will be involved in the fall, to the remuneration, to the salary, to the pay we pay. And if we're so lucky to have finished canceling the insurance, which is a total disaster, our debts will be reduced too. But if we have a foreign currency, they maintain their value while our salary has been by hand reduced by 20% or we lose our job. This is all so that if we get hit by a financial crisis, something bad will happen, and it's worse if we're in a penalition. I think this discussion is very useful for us to review these scenarios. If we are part of a currency union, how will we react in different groups? How do we react on different populations if we have an independent coin that can spread the crisis in the economy beyond and can also respond to a faster economic system, that we don't have to go through the needle eye of the bankruptcy with a large part of the economy but will be automatic correction, the economy getting up early? It is like the difference between being the straw that breaks or the tree. We need to talk about this. I'm happy for this discussion, and I'm confident that as we dig deeper into it, we'll be more and less inclined to join a currency band. [[The president calls.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u61	V.E.G. President. Listening to this discussion has been very interesting. I'm one of the executives of the proposal, and I think it's very useful. As we have discussed, this is a very need for discussion. We need to discuss how the future currency we want to have. I've talked to people who know much more about these things than I'll ever have while I'm alive, because there's nothing easy to put into this. After 53 years of living and living on that land, I realize that this currency we have is not many fish. It's what it is. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson say it's worse for us to be in a bigger coin union? Don't you think the public has always paid for every crash in Iceland? This was shown in the case of a man. paritaprevir Bjarnadóttir here that this is always a property transfer when a crash occurs. Hv. A senator would say that we should stay in the crown and wear the crown, that it is much better for us in the long run. I'm having a hard time believing that. How does he feel, then, about the fact that the largest corporation in the country will settle in Europe? If we want to hold on to this crown, why don't all Icelanders use it, too? Professional life pays the people off on the unscrupulous crowns. It'll pay for everything. Then these same companies either make up for dollars or euros. It's just ridiculously unfair. If we're going to continue with this currency, then that must apply to all Icelanders, the professional life too. I also wondered, when he speaks of it, that the interest in the country, for example, is in the bank on loans, of which 10 to 12 percent. For example, what is it like in the European Union? What is it, 1%? There's a bit of a difference, 1 or 2%. But you don't feel why. If we are going to keep the crown, should a senator say that we should let everyone walk with us?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u62	A respectable president. First, I want to start with this final game of interest. At the beginning of the currency alliance, all nations had German growth, Spain, Greece, Cyprus. Money has grown too little to survive into these countries. But now, as of this century, growth differs greatly from the state of the world and its debt. At least, I think there's a very different picture now. We cannot expect to enter a currency alliance and receive immediate German interest. The risk is no longer devoted to the coin, but to our debt, to the simpleness of the economy, and to all these factors; and possibly to the speed of response to the tragedy, since we have a fluctuating economy. I believe that if we have our own currency, we're quicker to react and get back up. Hence, we can attain a lower interest level by using our own coins. Okay. If we have other men's coins, we'll have to go through a long unemployment and a so-called internal gangfalls, as they're practicing in Greece. It's a terrible situation. It leads to a flight of money and a higher interest level. Hv. A senator also asked if there is a basis for banning companies from foreign currency. I can't seriously see that it makes up its account in the tapestries they choose. They only pay their taxes, and they're actually in the Icelandic economy. Many of the companies that make up dollars or euros do it because most of their business, all of them planning, these coins are in coins. I think the dollar should be here for financial advantage in the internal business. I don't want anyone in a foreign business to use a dollar separately. It's just absurd to me. We're not supposed to force people to use a crown. I don't think that it's paid by anyone, and there's no injustice, even if a company chooses to pay another coin. It may pay off a dollar to do that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u63	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. As it was in my case earlier, he knows so much more about money than I do, and I don't think I'm ashamed to admit it. I've been thinking about living in Iceland. It was noted in recent discussions how this was a time - consuming fishing industry, normal employees lost all their possessions. I've met people who have lost everything two or three times in their lives because of that crown, and they always mention the dollar. I'd like to give an example. In 2005, I borrowed 11 million in a camp loan fund to buy a house. At the same time, in 2005, my friends in Denmark borrowed $11.5 million. Now ten years later, my loan stands in 20 million, but it has a loan of less than 7 million. They'll pay for it for ten years, then they've already done it, but I still have a 35 - year walk, and I'll probably have paid a good price for another hundred million when this loan goes down to 40 years in the south of Grinavík. This is what I'm wondering: How in the world can we try to find a way, this nation, and decide how we want to have currency policy? It's clear this isn't how it works. And everyone's calling for some change. I hear much more about the fact that people want to start considering seriously that the government is fulfilling its promise of continued discussions with the European Union and then entering it. There would probably be one of the greatest farms in the Republic's history. Probably there would have been even more improvement and prosperity for the homes in the country than there would have ever been in debt.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u64	A respectable president. He taught all the grass in this counter. With the EU colony - I've rarely heard a funny idea. [[Up front.]] It is clear that Iceland would be among the countries that would have the greatest national income on a person in this economic alliance. It's clear that the farm for Icelands would have to pay more for the alliance than it will, so it can't be farmed for Iceland, it's clear. We'll pay them one percent of the nation's income into a common fund, and the percentage will just go up. Since national income is higher in Iceland than in other places, it ends with paying more than others. It's not a living in my mind. And discipline cannot be brought into circulation by adopting the currency of others. It is not possible to import low interest, as I had mentioned earlier. That depends completely on how we act. We need to act better, learn from our mistakes. It is not that someone should come and act for us; we must do something better for ourselves in the way we conduct ourselves in economic matters. We've done a lot of work on it. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator should not worry about this. There are solutions to the problems mentioned. He used an example of himself and his friend in Copenhagen. It is not a secret loan to real estate. We're supposed to cancel the insurance policy. We're supposed to keep the growth level down, and we're supposed to use the controls we can have the interest level normal. Already it is high that there is going to be an overemphasis trade to the country in my opinion. He has spoken of it, in the fine report mentioned here, that he has to use more and more controls than he has to control. I agree with that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u65	A respectable president. I want to thank you for the discussion. It's been very useful. I find it extremely important to say it whenever we talk about the currency that this is not a simple matter. I sometimes feel that it is the way it is like when those who believe in the crown rather than in the euro believe in the euro to persuade the euro to solve all issues and believe in it and in the euro, of course, but this is not the case. The database's report on this option is 500 and some pages. There are many sides in this case, and that's always the way... Yeah, 600 and some pages, there's growth on this thing like there's other things, good if not 700. [[Take it up to, like, 600 or something.]] We're always our own luckmakers, I think that's a very obvious thing. It's kind of two things that I think memorable about from the UN Bank analysis that makes the dollar so good because it contains such a high adaptability, which is called "i.e. When something happens in the Icelandic economy, herd goes, mackerel goes away, tourists stop coming or something like that or the banking system collapses, let her fall down and the economy adjust. As to this, the report puts it in a gentle academic economy that it may be that in this case it is worse than the disease. This is very interesting to me. The indeed adaptability of this small dollar has led to worse results than in actual tragedy. This gives me a lot of thought. The report explains how all these gangfalls have led to a lack of trust on the basis of Icelandic economy. Among other things, it has been revealed in dress - and - wheeled rhythms of personal consumption, which have been difficult to control and the environment that flows from what leads to difficult circumstances in the state of money, which are difficult to maintain discipline in them. As a result, we actually took up another crown, a fine - priced crown, the trust of a financial life, and, in fact, the creditors of a house, as new figures show how credit combinations are in a loan market. The borrowers trust the crown more than the pure insecurity of a crown. I just want to say how the statement in the report that the average is worse than the illness can be. We're stuck here with a economy that doesn't really have one currency, it's an unscrupulous crown, an unscrupulous crown, and then it's a company for dollars and euros. All of this presents a lack of trust on the basis of the economy. The rest of the analysis is that if we really move in stability, pick up a stable currency that is stable because it is larger and more nations are behind it, it is protected by a strong European bank and so forth, along the streets, the very Icelandic job center, which is well equipped to accept new opportunities because of the fact that here, despite all high levels of education and high pioneering and heavy sceptres, grows and thrives - if we really move in this stability and adaptability. The report says that exports increase from 2% to 11% with a broad range of corporate fleas over stability would be the new basis for stability in Iceland. More complex employment, more support, would be created by adopting a new stable currency. It's up to the council arrangement, and the big question is, really: Should we sacrifice the adaptability for the stability we move in? Of course, the stability we are moving in, which some call imported discipline, makes us extremely demanding. Of course, if we were to fail to handle these circumstances, we could end up as a unemployed nation. Here, the swings would show up so that they would fail to build a job. Of course we would have to use this opportunity, and it would be totally up to us not to screw it up, and of course you have to think that in Icelandic economy, things have often been screwed up, they could. For example, if we took up euro, interest would quickly decline. Then it could be that professional life and individuals would owe themselves very much. This actually happened in the leading point of the collapse. At that time foreign currency was taken up by foreign loans and by very low interest rates. The economy rushed into this growth because of some accumulated desire for a very long period of high interest. There was a dramatic growth in loans in the years before collapse, including those in the United States. Because of the good news that was involved in less interest. Of course, the same can happen if we pick up Euro. Of course, it would be a study to see how such a crash would result in excessive borrowing, likely on unemployment. But there will still be a way to prevent such economic failures. I guess that will always be our assignment, whether we have a crown or a euro. The collapse will appear in different forms, rather on unemployment, I think if we are in a single currency area than in the transfer of living values and valuables if we have our own dollar. These are all questions. We're our own luckmakers. I think in this troubled, troubled environment that the economic regime in the state is that we simply have to face up to the fact that we have advantages. I think it is likely that it will pay for this nation, for the way it is put together, and for how it is balanced in the labour market and how it is progressive, and for what vital force it is, to have more stability in currency than to live with the sophisticated adaptability of the crown that its supporters promote. It's cold food.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u66	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator again for an interesting viewpoint. I cut it at the end of the day. A senator is told of adaptability and discipline. I'm just going to ask him why he thinks Sweden, the British, the Poles and other countries in the European Economic Areas have no intention of recording the euro. It becomes more and more unlikely that Sweden and Poland are willing to record euro, although they are directly obliged to do so. They draw their feet and see their heels far away. They don't think of recording any coin that seems to be the solution to any problem. This may be because they need this adaptability. I think there must be also that option, the adaptability. If we do not have the adaptability, then the second option is an internal gangfall. In my first talk, I discussed what that means. One way is to correct all wages in the country overnight. Then there is no need for political conflict or say: You lower your salary, you lower your pay, you lower your pay, and everyone goes on strike until it's 12%, 14% unemployment and no one dares to murmur - that's the other way, usually the way it's gone into internal ganglocking and usually takes three, four, five years. The rest happens overnight. The gang went down. Our export is no longer competitive to international markets. This can very often happen, not only because of the inadequacy of some corrupt or ill - minded politicians, but because we suffer an external shock. Our foreign markets can fail, world war can become, whatever may happen, natural disasters. It's a question of how we're going to adapt. If we have a gang to adjust, it's going to be a real fast, but the inner gang crash takes a long time and means we're going to have a down payment, which usually starts with the least of the defenses, and it takes a long time. [[The president calls.]] In view of this, which way is more acceptable. The senator, the internal gang crash, or the adaptability? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u67	A respectable president. These are interesting questions. In fact, I'm saying that the constant currency will reduce the risk of such ganging, whether internal or external, due to the fact that, as I used to trace my speech, more stable currency would provide additional support for the economy, and it is likely to become more diverse exports, more varied employment in such situations. We would not be so subsidiary. If we're talking about the root cause of the problem in Iceland, it's always been one of the most basic things in the world. We need to get out of that environment. Is it likely that we will do it with a crown? If it's not likely we'll do it with a crown, we're a subcontinent. On the other hand, if we are more likely to increase the variety of employment with euro, we will remind ourselves of the odds of fluctuations. Then I have to say that if we are going to be in a single currency area, for example, all the workforce changes. The countries that have been experiencing a highly complex workforce, a little flexibility, have had difficulty in the European community. Of course, some of the adaptability of the economy must be made, and it must be shown by the possibility of labor or the economy and the job life so that people are diligent in creating opportunities for themselves in a single currency area, with the legal and admonition. They also matter greatly. Talk about discipline. The story of some Baltic nations might be associated with the euro. The decision was made to pick up Euro during a very difficult time that meant gross cuts in government budgets for several years. [[The president calls.]] But now they are reaping. [[The president calls.]] They accepted the discipline and now benefit from it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u68	A respectable president. I couldn't quite figure out what the answer was, anyway. A senator chose an internal gang fold that would take years and would be very difficult for the labor, or adjustment, as most economists seem to understand to be the option. It was said of stability and the importance of having a constant currency. Is the euro a constant currency? Has a what? A senator investigated what changes in euro over a dollar have been over the past few years? As far as I can tell, the swing was tens of percentages. What stability is that? Or wants some. A senator that we direct our entire business to the European currency area? Is that the variety they were talking about right here? Does it involve direct all our transactions to a single currency union? I don't think so. Therefore, it is important that we have a currency that can take into account our success in our business dealings with many countries. I'm worried about one thing, too. I'm worried about it if we join this sort of coin alliance. My question to why. There's a senator who has what to do. A senator like me worries that we could move in instability through the currency union, the euro, because the euro takes into account the needs in Germany and they're not at all in harmony with our needs? We're importers on energy, immigrants on protein, but they're immigrants on the same things. It is very likely that they are in the opposite swing, as economic research actually shows back in time. I don't know about the future, but there's no evidence that there's going to be a change. Could this imported discipline not change to being imported instability? Wouldn't it be undesirable for us to be disrupting the economy here with a coin that would be way too strong or too weak and we'd have to break down and turn in it somehow?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u69	A respectable president. I don't think any currency is completely constant, not unless it's an unnatural government affair and a head. Since we now live in a bit of an artificial world with the crown of oceans, we can gulp more stability in word than we would if we were living with free capital transportation. Regarding the difficulty in working with the internal ganging of a currency union, this is a natural one of the key questions. It's a good way to review this in the National Bank's analysis of alternatives to currency. Of course, these are key elements of the workforce. That's the perfect key. I think we are well equipped to meet all the challenges of a currency alliance within the euro. One challenge would be to create a work market so that he could use the stability needed to relieve power, to solve more diversity, in order to give further support to the economy, so that in case of tragedy, the labour market would be flexible enough to look for opportunities. This has depended on some countries in the currency union. They have not had enough flexible conditions in the labour market. But I think we live with that, at least. I think we could arrange things that way. So it's always a question of options. I think stability, or at least more stability than we live in, and lack of ability to do better than adaptability and fluctuations of the Icelandic flag. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u70	A respectable president. I find that a very practical and interesting discussion has been conducted here today, and I just want to kill on a few dimensions in this discussion and encourage those who have been most impressed by the discussion gradually, the benefits, the flaws, and the field of discussion. This program always refers to the Mediterranean countries that do not share us here in the north as to cultural differences, democratic developments, economic systems, and other factors. I find the development of northern Europe and Western Europe much more interesting. The North countries have some their own currency, but they are naturally linked to euro and they chose to join in the European Union, with the exception of Norway. [[Up front.]] I'm sorry? Not connected? Still, their economic management takes some into account the euro. There's a problem drawing crazes, and I'm waiting. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Sigllionsson may necessarily address the question, and preferably answer the question: Where in the world is such a custish economy with its own currency which is so extenuatingly based on foreign trade and has long been able to run such a adorable, beautiful economy with an excessive distribution of equal value to all members of its society and so much discipline that it produced itself? It's such a peripheral movie. We can take a few years to see the national scene in Iceland and say that they've been doing well for a while, but I guess that's about the only time, at least. During the republic? Now people may say that there are other things besides the currency, and that is true; there are many other factors that have happened. So people never discuss the United States with over 50 countries, all of which have the same currency, that as I know the same pattern, although the economic and national life in these states is said to be most slightly different and possibly different from that of many European countries. They've been successful, and I don't think any of them want to give up. It's the best part, they're drawing up these petals. Earlier today, we were discussing repairs to drive drunk. Now you can say: Is it not clear to everyone that driving a drunk is a ridiculous ceremony? Why, then, does a law have to do that if it is so simple that it can be adopted? Why do we need to be penalties for driving drunk? Why do we need to discuss gaining it? This is probably because the members of society are unable to adopt their behavior. That's why we have a law against it, and that's why we have laws. We look to the subsidiary environment, which brings us closer stability. paritaprevir Steingrímsson Steingrimurson spoke of, that he was searching in a context that binds us more in various areas, and it provides extensive stability without being saved. I'm not going to speak as some religion to record the euro or to walk in the European Union at all, not at all. However, it would have been nice to finish these discussions, see what led them, and perhaps a small sin is that they were not going to succeed. However, I am not necessarily certain or convinced that it would have led to our decision to enter. We have such interests in fishing, agriculture, and so forth. The main problem I think the crowners have to solve is to tell us more about how to get into a long period of stability and some equally valuable exchange in this community while we have that currency if we've never done it, and there's no other economy to point out that does it. Besides, this difference between them-- Frosti said before it didn't matter, business was allowed to clean up in a foreign currency, and everyone owns a business in many currency. Is he saying that it's all right just to accept payment from your client when it's convenient? Is it only fine if I sell a horse to a foreign country and get it paid directly with euros? Okay, then he's saying we're gonna be here with a lot of currency, and then it's gonna be a lot of trouble. Many are able to sell things in dollars, pounds, or euros and then shop with the currency even at some post that does not exist. I grew up in my father's shop that he was trading in a foreign currency. It was a very lucrative business, but I don't think it was smart or good for anyone really. We had discrimination on that basis because he could get them money. Others were unable to do so, but there was nothing to do with free trade or equalizing it. I encourage kroners to continue to support the crown, for I want to hear more scenes and more drawings of how we can constantly run a community with a crown. In the next two, three years, there will be no difference when the head goes even further. How and where will we go? You really have to try to draw it up, and I encourage them to do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u71	A respectable president. The conjugal proposal we're discussing here for the future currency of Iceland, but there's nothing in the suggestion that there's a particular euro in particular if you assume that the great body of Congress that offers the proposal, a better future, that will be involved in the European Union, and everything good about it. I wondered, " What is my attitude? ' A senator, like other currency, has other solutions, to pick up another currency, to consider it practical, and if so, how much it would cost. Really, it's in relation to whether it's practical or not, at least As far as I'm concerned. I'm very interested in hearing it from what I hear. A senator, for example, did a detailed study of such advantages as the fact that the future development after we solved our currency capitals would be in a way that after the crisis, they would use a number of taxpayers in a country that I think is quite possible. There are so many who have learned this from these bourgeois capitals that in their nature it is valuable to have a foreign currency for them alone that he is foreign and non - Icelandic. I find this discussion interesting and important, especially if we look at it as if we're going to have an Icelandic crown for a while more, whether we like it better or worse. We need to discuss this in detail. I think the Icelandic economy is a little special, especially because of the low economy and therefore worth considering the possibilities of any other currency we could record. A lot of people want to say that it's ridiculous. When it comes to this discussion, there are discrepancies. I noticed when the Valley of Canada was especially mentioned, the worst of all was the case. It may well be true. At least I wonder what. A senator feels that such ideas are involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u72	Mr. President. It's like a case, if that's what it's all about. A senator is just asking me what I think, I think we should have just started finishing the European Community talks. If so, it would be clear whether it was inside or outside that we were engaging in euro. If there was that option outside, I think we'd only have the dollar. I think canadadollars or many currency are not - it's not in my field of education, but it's just my opinion today to finish my talks, see what policy it will be about the euro, or connected to it or something that may affect Europe, otherwise just a dollar.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u73	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I believe canad Valley is a bad choice as much as I care about that fine currency, but it's a bad choice for Iceland because the Icelandic economy and the Canadian economy are different and removed in the economic sense. That's what I think is the main reason why they believe in euro. Some people want to look to American dollars, but I've heard no good reasons for that, so there's still great options, of course, that we lose the bank's authority. For example, if we have a currency market from North America, the currency policy is actually in the hands of the money bank of the country. Of course, the same is true of the euro. On this occasion, I'd like to say that, based on the earlier discussion, the euro, while seen by the U.S. dollars, would not swing within the area except by an inner swing, which was mentioned earlier. It is, of course, just part of the economic relations of the nations in general and least of all with a common currency. Away from that, if we see that we have paid and are not going to the European Union, how do you feel? A senator that can be held around the crown and used as an improvement? What I'm looking for is a little bit of the Icelandic kroner. It seems to cause inflation; it has several symptoms. I wondered, " Which way do we have to reduce these symptoms, such as inflation? ' In my opinion, inflation will never be stopped, not at all, but we may not be able to escape the persisting inflation, which is such a characteristic of the Icelandic crown, or that we need some kind of head. Has a what? A senator of any ideas other than filming Euro?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u74	Mr. President. In order to cope with the reality of having the crown as a permanent currency for the future, one of the most important projects is to establish and implement a labour market model that has never been successful in Iceland except for a very short time at a time. I mentioned earlier years after the national age. We must look to the time and stability achieved by implementing a labour market that would provide the means to set the level of peace seen in the marches, in the inflation and in the labour market. I have heard from a public discussion that the secretary of finance has now called for this. He is a large worker in it and a very large project for him to establish that some labor market model is established here so that a solid state will be established. He now has the grand task of finishing contracts with the uncontracted public employees, such as police officers, but the success of which is hardly well said. This agitation - Why is he always so much greater with us than with the others? It's because there are always so many social classes in Iceland that feel they have been left behind. They feel that discrimination is taking place. They may feel that some people have more than others. It is most of the task of setting things right here for peace, and in order to have a crown, one must find a way to divide equals and thus adjust for peace.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u75	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Ríkharðsson's son's campaign was to provide interesting inputs in which he raised good questions, including some.: Why don't people ever talk about the United States? I'd like to discuss the currency alliance in the United States. They're doing fine. This is where all speak the same language that humans can easily move from one state to another, which is not uncommon. I understand that the average American moves 16 times in his life, between various states, but is always in his own country. He's not a stranger in the United States. This makes it a much more flexible work area, and taxation can also be shifted between companies. I think that 20% of the total tax revenues in the United States are so that they can be transferred in contrast with what is available in Europe where these amounts cannot be transferred from one country to another. I think there's about 3% of national production between us, something like that. The amount of money is very small, so it cannot be compared in any way. Actually, it is one nation with a single currency that has gone to war, speaks the same language, sings the same national song, and sings the same country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u76	Did you feel...?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u77	It doesn't apply in the currency alliance, unfortunately, and therefore it doesn't work. We wouldn't be German if we picked up the German target. The Greeks did not become Germans and so forth. Then there is this: How can such a small coin be stability? Is there another nation with as little coins as we do, and does it really matter? There is no economic theory about which is the smallest possible coin field. Actually, a small community might be a coin field. There is no problem in that itself. It's very cheap to run a coin. It's made out of nothing, and then it's just a computer system. In many places, lilacmins are being made to overcome unemployment or contractions. However, economic theories deal with the extent to which problems arise when different economic systems begin to use the same criteria in business, the same coin, the huge problems that lead to unemployment, and many years of age. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u78	V.E.G. President. It sounds like a reason. A senator just started a little bit. He may be given a chance to move on. I'd be happy to get more work on these little communities who have their own coins and they don't forget that I'm also talking about the importance of foreign transactions that you've always been taught to have such an impact on the currency because we're making so much foreign business and so dependent on them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u79	A respectable president. I would like to have a few more hours of public speaking to discuss this subject. This is a very exciting subject. They set up small currency units in small zones, there are many examples of a local currencies in order to create currency where no one is available because it is a capital escape from those areas. It has done very well in many lands. In fact, Iceland is a very small coin range so that our economy can win and achieve its best. If we were to take out other people's coins, she would run around by laws that we have no control over. That's the problem. Here it was just a matter of saying, "Is there a problem in itself that someone in the tourism industry would accept a currency as a payment for their services? " Not at all. What they're talking about is that there's money in the country. He's a buck. With it, you could pay all debts, all your taxes. There is no need to pay taxes with a limit, nor would it have to be changed to a dollar first and then all. It's not just to make sure that there's only dollars and no other currency, it's not the purpose of currency at all. It's that everywhere there aren't any other symbols to use to do business, there's always a dollar ready, and can be used to make good and easy business. A foreign income in itself is not a problem in itself. Although many companies have clean exports and are paid in currency, there is no problem. They can turn it into crowns to pay off wages and pay taxes. Since we always use a dollar and a domestic currency whenever possible, we have to save how much money we borrow from a foreign currency to do business with each other, since there is really no need to have a foreign currency. The more we use our domestic currency, the more we save ourselves borrowing from other people's currency. On the other hand, a capitalist is about how we can see to it that our interior currency is stable. [[The president calls.]] There are many ways.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u80	Mr. President. I still see a small problem if we're going to allow business with many currency. In fact, humans will not divide foreign currency into a dollar they will avoid doing so. It is impossible to assume that they will. Businesses throughout the country are being paid in foreign currency and are not divided into Icelandic dollars, thus not paying taxes with them. As a result, there will be a far - reaching economy. [[Up front.]] I don't know what it's called, it's just going on, and they're tempted to even go abroad and buy money for it or use it in other ways. You can always get rid of it, and then natural markets will be made with currency if that becomes any amount of money. In a time when this would be especially practical for some situation in the Crown, this would always increase so that it would probably always be forbidden and absolutely obliged to return all currency. But we will not extend this discussion any further. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u81	V.E.G. President. I think we should really extend the discussion because it's very important. I welcome this proposal for a resolution on the future currency of Iceland. We are naturally dealing with basics, a major challenge that we face today is how we are going to face up to currency in the future. Whether to mention small communities with a small currency that resulted in success was asked earlier. I'm gonna mention one community, that's Iceland. It's not everything here that's best chosen, but a lot of things. I look especially at the part that I feel is one of the most important things in terms of the well - being of the nations and that is the level of employment. Since the end of World War II and up to this day, we have been able to maintain a high level of employment in Iceland. That's extremely important. During the late 20th century, Iceland's unemployment averaged between 1 and 2%, with the exception of the last years of the 1960's, the first years of the 1990's, and then several years of the new century. We were able to do this in spite of a small currency, or should we say because of the small currency, because the natural fact is that currency is neither good nor bad in itself. You cannot follow him into the infinite. It can be harmful, as it was for Iceland, when it was caught in the larceny at a financial market that took advantage of the currency of its currency to profit from it, it was bad and helped our collapse, but at the time of failure, the currency's smallest currency would help repair us. I must say, I would prefer the Icelandic route in which the nation's commercial powers were impaired when the currency fell about 50% but to gain 60% of unemployment among young people, such as Greece and other countries throughout southern Europe. This is a fact and is one of the most serious and ugly social ills of all. I don't feel that it's possible to overlook that reality. The reality cannot be overlooked that even at the worst of the Icelanders after the collapse, unemployment did not exceed 10% and is now down to about 3%. This is a result of some success, and perhaps to some extent it is due to the currency. We have to look at this in a realistic way. Then, the other thing I want to call the strange child religion is to think that by introducing a common currency into a larger area, it has established a uniform interest policy and a uniform, knowing men, inflation. Do you think that inflation is the same in the whole European region? No. Of course, in southern Italy, inland, inflation can become more expensive, and coffee is raised at restaurants and in the camps, although the same is not true in South Italy. The price of labor, the purchase, can grow in one place and decrease in others, thereby contributing to different inflation levels within this area. But what I wanted to draw attention to during the discussion is to put it into the historical context of the European Union and the hopes associated with the European Union from the beginning. What were they? There were hopes of economicism, but they were associated with peace. They hoped that working together in the economy would contribute to peace, and that would be a noble goal for me. Of course, one accepts them and understands those nations that were torn apart in conflict, in world wars, and in internal wars for centuries to want to find ways to reduce conflict and inner tension. What happens, though, when the European Union enters a world that is becoming created by a joint currency and a common policy of money and the idea that the European money box would have criminal rights if the line was stepped off? That was the idea. Who are most likely to be involved in such a punishment? There are poorer countries in southern Europe. This was warned a few years ago when there was talk of increased power and criminal power on the part of the European bank. It was then discussed, and it was dismissed. But what is happening now? What's going on with Greece? What's going on with Spain? What is happening to southern Europe in general and where are these lines leading? I thought it might be easier, but that is, in effect, when I visited the Netherlands a few weeks ago, I visited my companion in politics. I thought that there was a perfect agreement between Greeks who were oppressed by the north, Germany, the Netherlands, and the northern euro. No, no, no. They were angry with the Greeks. They were angry with the Spanish. It was angry with southern Italy. Why? Because the northerns said, "We are the people who will be paid. Why do I remember this? I do so in this regard when looking to the goals, the noble objectives that were set up when the European Union and the coal alliance were originally set up to promote peace and to reduce tension. We're seeing the opposite. And now that we see the flames and parts of ruins, Iceland's people are doing their dream of moving us into this world. What a ridiculous game. What kind of absurdity is going on here? I'd like to remind him that I'm happy to have this discussion, I like it, I think it's important, I think it needs to be here every day to remind us of the facts I've brought here. President. No, we're not supposed to worry about anything in these matters. We're supposed to look, not just at the harm of the crown, our little currency who's indiscriminate, nobody's gonna deny it. No one tries to ignore it. But we should also look at the benefits and the good that our own independent currency and mobility in the standard of living have brought. I say again, I prefer a crippling decline over the line than unemployment at 20, 30, 40, up to 60% when looking at young people in southern Europe.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u82	A respectable president. I think it's an interesting point of view. A senator would rather have a poor heart over the whole nation rather than get the unemployment that he believes would be if we were part of a bigger currency alliance, such as the euro. But then I wondered, " What is it? ' A senator believes that there should always be a head of currency or a capital of some kind where it must be available. What humans must realize is that when economic hardship is evident, they are quick to take away what they understand in the economy. And who understands anything in the economy? Yes, those who work most on it, i.e. Bankers, rich people, people who have money, shop for money, earn money. They're the individuals, the companies, and the conglomerates who will soon be able to get out of the crown and leave the losses for all the others. I wonder what's wrong. A senator will answer that question.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u83	V.E.G. President. I think many of them may be lost, and that is what was said in the leading tide of the crash. When the banks were too big for us and our economy, they would have been better off. I think it would have been better. I think the headache that was overrated. I believe the evil effects of the sea have been overrated. I'm not saying that I consider a currency head to be desirable, not at all. I'm simply saying that we must look to the circumstances and weigh the pros and cons because the picture is not black and white. Overall, I don't think that the oceans were as harmful as many people want to be. However, I think we need to do one thing, and it might be part of a discussion of this sort, to look into more rich reserves from those seas, and in the context of social interests there, and I thereby refer to the money transfers of pensions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u84	A respectable president. It's hardly very controversial now, that I thought, that the capital capitals were very bad in many ways, which I don't come to in 50 seconds. I may be doing this in a talk afterward. I can't hear better than that. A senator may not agree with having a persistent capital master, forever, but he seems somehow comfortable with it, or not satisfied with it, but he feels that he needs to be badly needed along the crown. That's my understanding of the language right now. A senator's right, that he agrees that with the longer-term crown, we need some kind of capital master, with some exception, but we need a capital master to make this work?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u85	Mr. President. At any rate, there is something that we need to look into when we have created a normal situation here. But what has naturalized our problems and our lot in recent years is that there have been a lot of money here that has wanted to look out without our having to give it away, and we have not had enough money to pay them out. In view of all of this, I suppose there would have been no improvement in the fact that we had a common currency that could have run free across the border. I don't think so. Of course, because of the unique conditions that the Icelandic economy has been in recent years, capitalists are behind the population.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u86	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a very careful speech and interesting. I cut down this thing which I have seen many times, that the company that went out with such a good purpose has developed a growing hatred between the nations, between the kingdoms of the border and the great kingdoms. I wondered about that question, and perhaps it could be the reason. A senator helped me find an answer to it, the interests of the currency union serve primarily. Whose interests do they serve? They don't seem to serve the interests of the federal states, they don't seem to serve public interests on either side. Is that the big companies or the little companies? Is it Germany that has enjoyed a superior position? In fact, the jobs have moved to Germany from the border, which has proved to be competitive. That's the big question. What has happened with this currency alliance? Is the world better with its appearance or would it be better to continue with the small currency?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u87	V.E.G. President. Now it is so big that I am not sure that I trust to answer, that I have simply knowledge or intelligence to answer this in an intelligent manner. But I know that the interests of the north and the south, the rich and the poor, are not the same. I listened to a man who had not had a discussion long ago about these matters in Europe. It asked: Should our nation resign from the currency work? He replied: "No, perhaps it would be best for the currency work that the Germans would resign from it, the Germans and the Dutch. This was a man who was rather talking about the interests of the south. What he was actually putting the lights on was that the interests of different or varied social and economic situations were not compatible. They did not join a common money queen.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u88	A respectable president. I'd like to put another point at a time. A senator. In Europe's currency alliance and Nobel laureates, as Joseph Stiglitz has declared that the currency alliance is one of the largest economic errors that have occurred in Europe. Does this not cause any confusion about Iceland - which is becoming more successful in its economic affairs than the most prosperous state of the currency Community, this country is not unemployment and is going better than anywhere else - are considering entering this vast problem, the largest unsolved European Union's puzzle, the currency union, at the same time as the Poles, Sweden and other nations who are obliged to enter, are taking their feet, and are avoiding any possible option?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u89	V.E.G. President. That's quick. I think it's a fairy tale that men are discussing this right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u90	V.E.G. President. Hv. paritaprevir I agree with Jónasson, the situation of Greece, and the situation in his speech. The circumstances in Greece are terrible. I also agree that I would have liked to see the European Union react differently. But then I wondered, " Can Syriza be elected to power and reelected now, especially as a result of corruption in Greece, and I ask the senator: Can it be understood as well as his speech that the euro, the currency used by Greece, is part of the problem that the Greeks are dealing with today? ' This could be seen from the context of the discussion of Greece in his speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u91	V.E.G. President. It's a very difficult and complicated discussion. Noam Chomsky did not say in his writings long ago that since irresponsible borrowers were also finding irresponsible borrowers. The problem that the Greeks enjoy is excessive loans, especially from Germany and France, to arms purchases and projects that are exactly linked to corruption, not just to the welfare system or to society. Now these same members, this financial system in Germany and elsewhere, are using the government to collect their debts. This is what I think is happening. I don't think it's quite so simple that the euro or the currency will be the only one to be blamed for the problems of Greece, at all, but I'm simply trying to put this currency into this large context where the strongest states in the north have got through the currency of this weak ionom. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u92	V.E.G. President. I agree with the senator about that, I don't think the euro is the big problem there. Depravity has been endemic in Greece, and the common people are certainly very at odds with the European Union's treatment of Greece, while the Greeks enter the European Union in counterfeit information. What may be involved in accusing the European Union is that it has not been on guard and has not been more treatable in these activities. However, Syriza now claims that Greece will remain in the European Union for all years, since the Greeks seem to be better off hiding than totally dependent on the whims of Greek rulers. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u93	V.E.G. President. The big problem, don't you think? The European certainly is a major problem with the Greeks. The Euro isn't the only problem, maybe that's what I said, and I'll agree with it. A senator, it is true that the Greeks, on false grounds of a multinational consulting firm that had been exposed and questionable payments have been made. The trouble in Greece is not simple at all. It is a very diverse, changed picture that needs to be considered in order to get a clear understanding of what is going on there. That the Greeks insist on staying in the euro and in the European Union - it is one thing to enter the European Union or even into a European economic environment as we did, and there is another thing to resign from it. [[The president calls.]] It's just not the same decision as what the Greek people face. She is faced with a choice that she would not have had if she was not in the relationship and should now decide whether she wanted to be inside or out. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u94	A respectable president. I'm in a place similar to what I'm doing. paritaprevir Sigríður Ingadóttir of Greece. This example is repeated in the discussion of those who want to pay a price against the euro work, and it is said or said that in Greece there was a great catastrophe. This is even said at the same time as the claim that currency is not important. Actually, it's a little paradox. But we can't, what? Jónasson If we're going to talk about Greece and compare with Iceland, we need to consider how the pension system is in Greece, how the tax in Greece, what kind of work market there is in Greece, how corruption has been in Greece, how government has been there, and then ask: Do we want to import all of this or not? [[The president calls.]] Is the comparison not to be reasonable? We were going to handle the euro in a different way than the Greeks because of something very different, aren't we?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u95	V.E.G. President. I don't know why. A senator was referring to me when he said that the currency was not important. The currency matters, and my language went out to show how he did it. However, I said that following a small and large currency would be fines and faults. Of course, when we compare different systems, corruption, employment markets, a pension system, it needs to be done everywhere, not just in Greece. Or do they think there is no corruption in Germany? That there is no corruption in Britain? That there is no corruption in the United States? Where do people think this counseling company came from, which was involved in cheating the Coalition of Coalition to the Greeks? It wasn't a Greek company. It was from the other sides. And where were those people who had been borrowing to Greece, so I'll witness again in Chomsky who says that irresponsible loans accompany irresponsible loanrs? [[The president calls.]] Of course, all of this needs to be examined, and when it is considered, it is absurd to blame all Greeks one thing out of the way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u96	A respectable president. I cut it down in my speech anyway. A senator said that the currency was some tool, or it was just a question of how we used it, and this often means that it doesn't matter, but, of course, it isn't. A ball is important. It matters what tools we choose, as I did well, that I think in a talk earlier. One is a red thread, in my opinion, for a certain defense. A senator for the crown. He claims that the sum of truth is that the dollar held up a job level and there's little unemployment because we have a dollar and that certain downs are justified. A senator believes, if I understood him correctly, to walk over everyone, but I don't think it actually works out over everyone, some are the exception of these masquerade-scraps. Then I would like to ask: Is it not possible for the senator to maintain a level of employment, to have little unemployment in any way other than that of the repeated fall in the crown? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u97	V.E.G. President. Of course, there are many activities that contribute to a high level of employment. When a currency is used as a tool to reduce the commercial power of a nation like this, it is quite true that individual groups can be affected, and it makes a difference who handles the national government. During our last term, we, who were on that watch, an earlier part of it, tried to protect the groups most vulnerable to their feet. It is the government's job to defend such groups when the commercial power in general falls. I'm alone to point out that one of the most serious ills that can arise in one community is when large groups of people lose their jobs and their livelihood. It begins a series of events that can be seen late at the end.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u98	A respectable president. I'm reading this synonym and I have to say that I'm pretty glad that I'm not in the government that's committed to this project. These are requirements for currency that I can't see better than being impossible if the currency is worth $1.00. So I don't necessarily have any particular solution. I'm going to try to keep my speech in such a way that it focuses, not on the euro, but on the way it works or doesn't work, and what we might do to reach one of these goals, at least in some way. Such goals are high. In support of policy development, the following factors should be considered, with the permission of the President: It's a... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... that long-term use of the currency will build trust in Icelandic economy, b. to increase its use potential for stable prices, lower growth and higher standard of living, c. to increase the currency's freedom in business with foreign countries, d. that the currency is suitable for Icelandic employment and has a good effect on the job level and export, e. that the currency facilitates economy, reduces the risk in the Icelandic economy, and is less risky than other options, f. that currency policy is well carried out on the basis of other concomitant measures needed in the state of financial and financial sectors and in treaties with other countries. This is no petty request list. When I think of the Icelandic crown, I think of an inflation first, that's the first and last thing I can think of when I think of that currency. The only goal I think a dollar would be perfect for, is the d-d-d-d-ding, i.e. that the currency is suitable for Icelandic employment and has a good effect on the level of employment and export. Maybe you're right. Actually, I'm not completely convinced that, as many seem to feel, the small unemployment in Iceland is the result of the currency. That may be so. I think unemployment is just a more complex problem than that it can be explained by one factor. You see, there is one problem we have here, as many other peoples, and particularly isolated ones, that we do not talk about. By permission of the president, that is the name of the only Icelandic translation I know is a ◯philosic leak. I notice that people move abroad a lot, and they find opportunities elsewhere. They often want to live outside Iceland, especially because they simply don't have the standard of living according to their education and experience and opportunities. Not necessarily an amount of tools, but also a variety of instruments. All of this depends on our economic dealings with other nations, of course, especially now that we have the Internet, when people see more into foreign lands and see more opportunities there than ever before. It's a problem we don't talk about very much. I don't know if it's because we're in some kind of denial or we just haven't noticed it, but it's one of the problems I think we're in Iceland and it's totally comparable to unemployment. It's easy to keep your unemployment down if everyone leaves the country. It's no big deal. Many have pointed out that while boasting about little unemployment, many people have left the country, and many are still moving abroad despite the economic situation. "In fact, according to reports, more Icelandic citizens than return. That's a lot of concern. The crown isn't saving us from that. Now I don't know if I can offer a few solutions in this short talk that I can hold here, unless the only possible, which is to restore an old dream and try to make it any more sensible than it was, but it's the idea that Iceland will become some sort of financial center of the north. A strange idea in the light of the story, but I'd like to stress that perhaps it's the only solution out of this. Perhaps this is the only way we can maintain an independent medium - increasing freedom, solid trust in the Icelandic economy, and maintain a stable price, lower interest and all these wonderful goals - that Icelanders from childhood to older, from the banker down to the unemployable, understand the economy. I'm saying that Icelanders in general, including even bankers, senators, politicians, don't understand the economy, they don't understand how it works, they don't know how to act in it. Under such circumstances it is impossible to show responsibility or reason, at any rate to be counted. The ongoing inflation, which has remained from the beginning, has dire consequences - not just all the things we can get into about who uses the crown first and therefore enjoys it most; sometimes called hidden taxes, I don't have time for all of that talk - but that is, by Icelandic crown along with inflation, there are long - term schedules impossible. That means you have to use what is sometimes called a mud mix, like insurance. The mix is true, and when people want to simply ban it, people often forget that it's a mix to solve the underlying problems that go nowhere, even if we take away the insurance. I call attention to the fact that banks today offer disloyal loans. Why do not all take advantage of that loan? Yes, because the insurance policy has the advantage, however, that if the predicted low growth rate and that people are in a position to maintain their salary level in terms of inflation, at least over a long period of time, they realize that insurance would be more appropriate. I also don't know how we're going to keep out a kind of pension system that relies entirely on long-term financial plans, without either price insurance, with the related bridges and routes in the banking system and the housing market, etc., or with foreign currency. That's the only other way I can see. Then you have to ask yourself: " Why not simply use a foreign currency in Icelandic society when the oceans have gone away? Why not try to get paid in euros or dollars? Why not try to pay with euros and dollars? Why would anyone want to use a currency that you know for sure that in time inflation will fail? Why would you want to do that? For some national pride? Hardly. Certainly not out of reason, that's for sure. So we need to ask ourselves, " Why is it possible for us to reach these goals? ' Given that we do not walk into the European Union and do not record the euro, which, while I remember, I am not sure that we will solve all these problems or meet all these conditions, but probably some of them, probably many of them. As far as I can see, there's two ways we can keep the Icelandic crown. One is having everything in place, not just capitalists, but heads of people, if you want to leave the country, because we lose our experts. The other is a solution even higher than all these goals here. That's because we just have the entire economy in foreign currency. It is in effect that the nation's currency budget in a very inaccurate and indeterminate sense will be sufficient to pay for the entire economy. That's the amount I'm not sure men dare talk about here, I don't think it's practical. One thing is certain that we do not achieve these goals in the Icelandic kroner. Then I suggest that we face the fact that we see it as a fact. Rather than trying to achieve these goals with the Icelandic crown, we are expected to be prepared, prepared for economic setbacks, to emphasize education and financial education so as to know how to prepare, such as by saving in financial security. I know a lot of people don't have any money to save, but some people do, and they don't save money when they're supposed to, or in foreign currency, if they're available, they're offered in some places in Iceland. It's the least I think of the Icelandic people, and I mean all of the Icelandic people, not only the common people, but also the powermen, understand how to live with the Icelandic crown along failures, along with collapses. How do you survive economic collapse? It is a question that the Icelandic people should ask themselves because there will be more failures when we have a crown, that is, it is just a matter of time, just a matter of magnitude and time - and, in fact, probably with other currency if it is gone. Let's get ready.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u99	A respectable president. Thank you for an interesting speech. Actually, I don't necessarily think that the Icelanders were in poor economics. I think that in the 20th century, the behavior of the Icelanders has shown that they are quite read. The country, on a large scale, I think, simply concluded that it did not pay to save in this currency because it was always successful. And it was not very successful as a storage place for value. So it became a pattern of behavior to try to buy something for him at once, to try to get the value into a more stable form. This was the history of the 20th century, which often resulted in very strange fluctuations in personal consumption. I think that's exactly what it is, because the nation was very well aware of the circumstances in which the currency created it. He creates a swing thought. He makes them merchants. I think he did. Now we may live in artificial stability because we live in seas. I wanted to ask you what. A senator in charge of the goals we set here. We feel that all of this is a reasonable goal, reasonable requirement that we must make for a currency. We will never live in a perfect world. We're talking about a bunch of fish that's supposed to be on the way. Does he view these goals as too lofty, and why, if so? Why don't we try to grow down? How do we do that? Why don't we just settle for 8, 9 or 10 interest here? Is this not an assignment we should take seriously? Is that not why we lack confidence in the crown? And should we accept that? Is it a lofty goal to visualize a world in which it is not, and so forth?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u100	A respectable president. So I disagree completely that Iceland is generally a financial lock. As a matter of fact, I believe the behavior that took place. A senator mentions that people have learned not to save here in Iceland - it's certainly not true. Senator. I just don't think it's a sign of a lock. I think that's a sign that men never form merits in Iceland. You can feel it. You feel that things are going to turn up. You don't have to understand any economics to figure this out. You don't buy the hamburger at 100 bucks. because you're thinking something. You're just used to it, because it's going up by 100 bucks. You just live with it. That's part of being in Iceland. I don't agree that this financial lock exists, despite the circumstances. Senator. It is true, however, that people did not save. However, this could save inflation. It could be saved in foreign currency. Instead, they borrowed from foreign currency, which they should know was unwise. Bankers should know. They were to instruct their customers about this because it was clearer long before a collapse. Anyone who knew about the money system and was watching it for sure, I told you, knew this, and should know. There's little more to my irritation here at the council Hall than when people act like the collapse has surprised everyone. No one was surprised who was watching and understanding how this system works. This system works by stopping the loans from being accessible and the system will dry up if the whole system is built on loans. It's not that complicated. This even overlooked the proven politicians, apparently. About what question? A senator, of the requirements laid out in the synonym, is, of course, a respectable and reasonable goal. It would certainly be wish we could get them all. Whether it's realistic with the crown - I dare almost say it's impossible unless it's a revolution in financial technology that I don't see to happen in the near future. Whether we are going to accept high interest or not is a question, not whether we will accept it, but whether we are willing to choose it or fail it in return. That's as far as I can get in this answer, Mr. Honorable President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u101	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator says that I think it's difficult to reach these goals with the dollar. However, I strongly insist that there are other ways that enable us to achieve these goals better even if we do not all of them. I can hear myself exactly what you're doing. A senator is saying that there is little financial lock, and of course I can agree with it. The collapse is a testimony to poor financiallocks in many areas. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that Icelandic circumstances have created a species of financiallocks, which is simply a bit of divination, trying to get involved in bullies and in many ways a very undesirable society. Sometimes it has two sides too. People in foreign loans, including some types of financiallocks. Many had calculated that, including their rural communities. It has been held before a financial and business committee that the foreign loans, based on Iceland's interest level, were simply more favorable in the long run, although the crash had occurred. This is very interesting. So the statements in this context cannot be completely jumped. Hv. A senator mentioned the "d" team at the Parliament's resolution on the professional level. There's a bit of a key objective there. It was a little interesting to talk about it, it was just a matter of time before we talked about it. paritaprevir Agitated by Jónasson and others. It is claimed that the dollar maintains a job level. What's being said by it, I think, is a single business life. She maintains a career that heals on repeated failures and that we have a worse salary in Iceland than in other countries. This leads to a state of urgency. A senator came in here, that there will be a leak of wisdom and professions that need to rely on foreign experts, and so on, the streets do not grow and diversity becomes smaller. [[The president calls.]] So it's got two sides on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u102	A respectable president. I wish you had a little more time for these answers because they have the most fun conversations. I agree with the optimism I find in my words. A senator said that the collapse caused some financial lock. Certainly there was some sort of financial lock before the collapse. They knew how to multiply by percentages and like that, but they didn't understand what they were going into, did not understand the nature of the economy. Here, there was an atmosphere in the whole community that nothing could go wrong. It was thinking. I was here. I know exactly what it was like. The collapse is proof that we are a very young people in financial affairs, that we understand things in general, and that we are very different. We went up and down fast and hopefully up again, just as it is now. Hopefully, we can learn from our mistakes at the same rate that we do them. That's what you'd hope for. If so, we may have some hope of achieving stability within the century or so. As we look at these specific suggestions along the Icelandic crown, I'm now giving myself an opportunity to hold on to an Icelandic crown, a respectable president - I think we need to make a choice and refuse options in the Senate resolution proposal. Hv. For example, in the previous issue, a senator mentioned interest, whether we should simply accept high interest rates. The question may be, Not what we will accept, but whether we want high interest or a much worse loan. While we have a crown, in this case there will be inflation, which means there will be high interest rates and/or insurance and/or capital security. So we have to pick up and turn down here. I don't see a way out of it. It is often difficult for the Icelanders to face the fact that they cannot both own and eat the cake, but we must choose and reject if we are to hold on to the crown. Again, I stress that I hope that I'm right next to it. A senator says that we are learning from the collapse, but we certainly need to learn more.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u103	V.E.G. President. We're here on Tuesday afternoon, on a beautiful fall day. There is calmness here at the council, Congress on the program, lightness, and a pleasant party at the Senate Hall. In fact, seven years ago, on October 6, 2008, there was another situation in this town. Then, General General, who had just been broadcast, announced to the people the sentence of an emergency law by a journalist meeting of Geir H. Haardes. The general government shook, the financial system shook, the Icelandic government shook, and the public was terrified. The collapse, which some have now allowed to call the collapse, has become reality in Icelandic society. There was a double crash. On the one hand, the Icelandic financial system was the cause of failure, as good as everything. It was a small percentage that survived, but the Icelandic currency, U.S. dollar, fell, and we were dealing with a double crash. In addition to what Icelandic homes were dealing with loss of income, loss of employment, and loss of property, the cost of loans increased to the level of prices. Now, seven years later, we are sitting quietly here discussing this harsh case of senators Bjart's future and 1st travelingman, hm. paritaprevir This is Guðmundur Steingrímsson, who spoke here, and I'm here celebrating this case, and I hope they get paid by the Generals. I'm sorry, however, that the government of Iceland is not the one who makes this issue, because it's a big deal that those who are in the community today are the people who are supposed to carry it down and let themselves be concerned about it. After a collapse, we discussed a lot of things, but two very often during the discussion, that was the currency and insurance policy. Lately, this debate has not been so dramatic. It was so successful with Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, then prime minister, and Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, the then secretary of finance, to raise Iceland with the aid of the Americans that the present government was being given a gift. The cost offlation has been relatively low, and the amount of dollars has been to strengthen itself, of course, by means of controlled measures from the Federal Bank as well as by the seas, so at the moment we are on guard against these issues. But it's a lie, because we have to deal with the Icelandic crown again, and we're going to have to deal with an increase in prices due to inflation when the Icelandic economy goes on the next swing. This proposal suggests that there will be a future policy for Iceland in currency and the currency will contribute to trust in the Icelandic economy, granting stable prices, increasing international freedoms, more appropriate Icelandic employment better and easier economic management. All of this is what Iceland and I understand today after the conversion and hardships of the past few years. People can discern what is right in the situation. There are, however, some of us here at the General Assembly who feel that it is irresponsible not to examine the effect that a new currency would have on us. From a economic point of view, it is obviously best to become a currency alliance. Then the euro is almost alone, but the one - sided acceptance of the currency of other nations simply isn't a practical option, so this proposal is, of course, about the filming of Euro. But it's about to explore its benefits, and I hope that the government has the worth of promoting the proposal so that we can have a discussion on this. Hv. A senator who spoke before me spoke about the Icelandic route he wanted to follow. The Icelandic way seems popular among various political parties in Iceland, and I don't quite appreciate what it is so attractive about these enormous espionages, but it seems to be one of the main causes of the Icelandic way to the Icelandic way, the flag it is, helps us to pursue the turmoil it creates. However, it does not help Icelandic homes that are responsibly borrowed. It's exactly what I've wanted to discuss at the council with Prime Minister and have a very direct connection with currency, but I don't know how to proceed here with the Icelandic route and insurance at the same time. The Icelandic public has refused insurance if he still takes credit because it's really the only thing that offers and may be the safest option for the fool who is here and also lowers the payment burden and allows people to borrow more money. But I miss the fact that we're not working on a real currency policy on the part of the present government, nor does it seem that there's any movement in getting us out of insurance. We've corrected the price insurance after this much turmoil, and we must expect to correct it when the next generation gets beat, unless they are to lure the young people today to continue living in Iceland because it should carry the cost of my generation and older generations and then be corrected in some way, but the majority of them just had to sit down with the tremendous damage that happened here and the serious consequences of the collapse of much more extensive areas of society than just the economy. However, there are seven years of collapse. The short - term thought is that we think of a reason only if a government anticontractor is concerned about the future currency. Perhaps it is appropriate to invite members of the Parliament who are preparing for this matter's discussion to read a good summary of failure in a report by the World Committee of Parliaments. It discusses a great deal about the crown and its effects. Since then, the bat has produced a thick, large piece of literature, or brick, on the current currency, even though it is not directly spelled out, that being with the Icelandic kroner remains extremely unattainable for Iceland. However, there are political groups in Iceland who are not concerned with the interests of the public in this regard, and they seem to be holding some form of credit for the crown. Now it is to see if the same politicians are so open - minded that they rely on them to accept a proposal like this. Writing one report and considering it can not hurt you.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u104	A respectable president. Of course, I welcome the discussion that has been conducted, and even though I am in a so - called government class, I rejoice over what was implied here, many times. I'd like to ask a few questions. It was said that there had become two types of collapse, both a bank crash and a collapse of currency, and that's a very interesting comment and that I think exactly exactly. Perhaps one of the main reasons why there will always be a collapse of currency and banks at the same time is that we use a currency that is employed by private banks. We use the accounts that are really in debt with us to have as a business payer, we share in these deep things. We never take out the crowns and use the money very little. I think 95% of the money we're using in the economy to do business, about 400 billion, is in these accounts, and we're using that money. It's really safe, considering. A senator to rely on a currency owner who is the private driver? Would it not be more reasonable to remember that the government fund or the Councilman not only make the money money money but also the electronic preparations necessary for the economy at any given time to do business? Is there any particular reason why we have decided that this is the way we have decided that the currency's private business is in this way? And will we be improved by picking up a private currency from the European Union, the currency union there, or the U.S. dollar also the private driver? Rather, should we not adopt the so - called national coin that we personally expel and make sure that it is out of our power of reason and that its amount is not being exaggerated? Is it not something that you could examine rather than adopt other people's currency?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u105	V.E.G. President. Other people's currency, that's where they're pointing. A member of a currency alliance that includes more than 500 million people, or less than that, as not all European countries have a European Union but quite a number of countries. I'm also glad that the senator participates in the discussion, he's the only member of the council who shows interest in this matter, and there's another person on the rosary afterward. But I have to admit, I don't agree with a vision. paritaprevir Frosti the son of Sigurjónsson in currency. Maybe I just don't understand him well enough, but I don't think it's enough to promote the economy. It's a very rigid system. I don't quite understand how the senator envisions the use of this system for modern economics. I have to admit I'm not. I think that to improve financial stability, it would be a normal first step to separate business and then investing in the banks. That would be a much more important step. It seems to me that ideas have gone wrong. A senator falls to overstimulate the system and reduces all flexibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u106	A respectable president. I wanted to ask you why. A member of the Parliament, however, is concerned with the fact that many countries have joined this currency union with high hopes that they will be given them discipline, better financials, more stability, e.g. Greece I'm going to dare to say one more time. Whatever the cause, the Greeks suffered a shock and the root, possibly corruption, possibly a bad decision, but they suffered a financial crisis. I'm not judging, but the Greeks had a shock, and they no longer had this tool to adapt. They had to go through a so - called internal gang fold. Internal gangbreaking means the same, the pay down, the property down, it becomes unemployment, the debt does not decrease. It's gonna take longer. If this happens, it just happens overnight. Suddenly, the coin would be lower, it would bite everyone, debt would be down, they don't have insurance. I agree with what. A senator that we must cancel our insurance policy because it actually damages the flexibility of our currency. As a result of your insurance policy, the adjustment is only on the pay side, not on the debt side. However, in Greece, which would have had a drachma coin and not insurance insurance policy, adjustment would have taken place more quickly. Today, the Greeks have been through a series of years of internal gangs that have led to their economy losing about 20%. Government debt has increased from 100% to 180% of national production because the State has had to take responsibility for loans that the banks had to take to raise funds. They've taken a loan from the Secret Bank. The bank has requested state responsibilities from the Greek state because bank responsibilities were not held, these are private banks. There is no simple solution. I agree that the dollar is not perfect, but there is a more imperfect thing that Joseph Stiglitz and other Nobel economic economists have called the largest economic failure of the currency union. [[The president calls.]] Do we want to enter that mistake? Is that the solution to our problems?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u107	V.E.G. President. Hv. A senator speaks of mistakes. There have been mistakes at the European Union, many of which have also been done correctly, in any case. I'm Greek toward the European Union. I don't always agree with everything that happens there, but I still believe that the European Union and European currency activities are desirable for Iceland. But it's not like it's all the way you want it to be, it's a politician who's crying like an Icelandic politician. We should not be afraid of the corruption of others because it is enough here, even though we do not want to face it. It's good enough for the aftereffects of the crash when there's been some sort of property transfer. I think we're going to get a better picture of things over time. Greece's situation is terrible in one word, but it has no part in the European Union unless it has a positive influence on the land that improved the expansion there, of course, the negative effects of which the State was not equipped to enter the European Union. Now it's going to be a test for this currency, but I think the euro has shown that it survives economic hardship. And we can also see that the nations that were worst out of these nations - what to say, here is a complete collapse but very serious economic hardship in all European countries - but the nations that had the worst outcome, Ireland, Spain, Portugal, Greece, do not consider leaving the European Union or the European Union at all. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u108	A respectable president. I'm here to celebrate the discussion that's been here for the rest of the day. It's been a long discussion, and I'm not going to extend it much. I agree with the words I heard once. A senator said that this was a discussion that might even be taken more often in the Assembly Hall. This, of course, is important, Iceland's currency and money policy in general. Of course, much more would be discussed here in this room. I'm especially happy now, and I'd like to say, to have an opportunity to take part in this discussion now, because I've not been able to do so for all the other times that this council proposal has been discussed here. As a messenger entered at the outset, some proposals have been made before. However, I just wanted to mention a few things that I think are appropriate for men to keep in mind and to discuss in later stages. In the first place, I feel that this proposal is out of place, since each year the currency in the United States is not a suitable currency. I mention this because the proposal for government to determine the practical arrangements for the future is not open to me, and I don't feel that in the beginning there is no need to rule out an acceptable currency without any assessment at this time of judgment. Also, I feel that this suggestion involves excessive trust in currency at all times. All currency has its good days and bad days. I wondered, " Do I see that when the currency here would be taken up had a bad period, it would be time to change the currency? ' I would also like to mention that it is not the currency of the currency as such that strengthens trust in the economy. The proposal suggests that there will be a number of factors and including the use of currency or long - term trust in Icelandic economy. Of course, it is not the currency that promotes trust in the economy. Rather, it is the market members, the commercial life itself, and the government that generally bases on economic trust by their actions in each country. I used to say that earlier today, it was claimed that capitals were looking out of the Icelandic economy because of lack of trust, without further explaining whether there was trust in the Icelandic economy or especially the currency. Of course, people need to remember that we had the Icelandic cent for the collapse of banks in 2008, and before that time, foreign funds as if none were tomorrow, and they did not lack the trust in the currency or the economy in general. The proposal says that currency has to be looked to to to increase freedom in business dealings with foreign countries. I would like to mention, then, that one currency in excess of another is not a prerequisite for freedom in business. A close - cut example is that of the European Union and the United States, these relationships and countries place a wide range of problems on foreign trade. I'm not gonna measure it out, but I'm gonna name it, so it has nothing to do with the currency. Speaking of which, well, well, then, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well. Greece has been a busy subject today, but I have not heard anyone mention Cyprus in this regard. Cypriots in 2013 schemed to pick up their currency head. They did so, although they had a common currency. I'll mention it because in this discussion, I made a note that if people shared currency with other countries, it would be less possible. Then there is the fact that after a two - year - long period of currency, the Cypians convened their newly acquired currency capitals and, if indicated, the economy in Cyprus is to be taken in substantial measure, and there is no evidence today that trust, such as this, is lacking. Foreign investors have become so rooted that they cannot return but, if indicated, the foreign investments are increasing in Cyprus. I'd like to mention this about foreign business and foreign trade. The currency must not be given more importance than the individual's premise. Well, if I'm going to sum this up, then I feel that, in short, I don't have a discussion about the basics in the money business how a currency is secure, i.e. the currency itself, not the economy where it is shopped. I don't think it's necessary, if the idea that's behind it is making it worth a dollar worth of shoes or the government medium you want to use here is not worth your trust. I'm not really worried about getting my currency off. Now, I want to make sure that there is an urgent need for that to be done, since nothing will undermine trust in the economy more than just a currency head, not the currency itself. I have no particular fear that the dollar as such will become a problem when the currency heads are lifted. There is no Icelandic economy that should not encourage foreign investments and continue to build up in the local economy. I'd like to at the end to mention it here, in a conversation about currency in Iceland, I feel that it's unnecessary to focus on some one currency and some state-made currency. Why not a lot of currency? Why should this market not be competitive like all other markets? Why do people fail to pick up the currency that seems best for each individual? Why does this not pay in the currency it receives for, pay, and so forth? Some others get paid in another currency and pay their pay in that currency, and individuals just pick up the currency they trust best. I think it's true that people have in mind that currency is just a product like any other product based on trust and the purchases and sales between individuals. It is not necessarily that one state has one currency, and one solution is not necessarily suitable for all.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u109	A respectable president. I thank you for an interesting talk with interesting questions. I think there is reason to stress that a synonym is not proposed because some small accident with the crown in the collapse, although it was quite a collapse of a currency when it came to its appearance. We are watching a long story of trouble. He looks beyond the eyes of the silver, that is, the silver. Some talk about this as a great adaptability of the crown, but we have watched the history of gangstas that have affected society. Here are some very big questions. Do we want society to be a gangsta community? Of course, the currency is of prime importance. Some currency arrangements do not provide a solution to economic problems. Rather, they require other solutions. This arrangement of action is made clear that we are going to examine these other solutions. In Icelandic society, in other words, there must be no forced failure to maintain a job level and that should be also the history of the 21st century. It's the currency that gives us a chance on this economy. We need to discuss whether we would like to have a currency that makes such temptations, or whether we should pick up a currency that would not offer the tools but other solutions. I think we should. Currency and trust. A currency is a natural item of value in which you must be assured that it is a storage place of value that keeps, not demeaning. It must build trust in the currency. On one occasion, people were paid for by the trade company property. I found some of those the other day. They're worthless. You can't buy anything for them. Freedom in funding transport is probably a key, too. We don't live in it because there's a chance that you can buy more for these dollars. [[The president calls.]] It reduces the natural value of the currency today. This is so thought - provoking following a speech given by the senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u110	A respectable president. Yes, I share the interest of the carriers of the proposal that these issues are examined and that the benefits and failings of currency are examined because it is important to bear in mind the benefits of having their own state - bearing currency as it has been attributed here, and the adaptability that many say prevented unemployment could also be said to have hid unemployment for a time, but of course, to a good degree, a home. This is a committee we knew in the last century. Of course, it came mainly because of rescue operations for the fishing road, which at its time was thrown here in a nonsense loss year after year and in total mismanagement. Walking as a special function was always an operation to save one and, of course, at the expense of the rest of society. It's not a way that's acceptable and I wouldn't speak for her. That's why I'm calling it. But the sum of such dollars - you can, of course, make your own decision that there is no footpost here. Special eco-efficiency has not been recent, although there is an empty issue in Iceland today in the currency capitals. But then it is also absolutely fundamental to my opinion that the currency heads will be lifted and you will see it in black on every white bill of trust. That is the natural principle and basis for all discussion about this currency. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u111	A respectable president. I may feel that this discussion needs to be cleaned about whether a currency is important or not. No one is saying that what the money card looks like or what it looks like is important, and of course it matters what the economy is and what else is it? We transporters are simply saying that these cases have been very little discussed, which currency is, because if it is a tool that I think is absolutely correct, currency is certainly a tool for economic management, there are different tools. There are some shapes and sizes. The stock market was not a good tool, for it was not a pleasure to get paid in the stock market, since they became worthless by the fall of the companies and few could be bought for them. They could buy a new barrel in the company if it came, something like that. It is similar, not in such a dramatic form, which is happening with the crown. We live in a capital master that makes it impossible to buy as much in the world as we would like to have with the currency we would like in modern society. It cannot be trusted with the same amount of value to store, so we have an unscrupulous crown that is not a very popular or good arrangement. I think it affects the economy very much, and it's not a good or expedient structure. So I have suggested that choose which currency is used, from the local stock market to euro or something else with an intermediate value. These are certain tools we have. But the question is, because I hear why. A senator wants free capital transport, and he wants to live with it - see what he can do. A senator provides free funding transport with a crown?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u112	A respectable president. As I mentioned, it is, of course, empty business to speak of the crown in capitals under current currency capitals, that is why I place great emphasis on it, and insist that I believe that the rulers will be lifted from the first. As far as I'm concerned, there's a government log in the next few weeks or a loss. No one has to argue that free transactions with the crown between countries today are empty to talk about and impossible to throw away at what value it is or what trust is in today's crown. I believe, however, that when capitalists are lifted, they are not necessarily a check for a dollar, and things go wrong, as some people have been talking about and speaking that way down in advance. I think it's wrong to do that. There is no foot for such pessimism and pessimism. Then I'd like to mention something else at the end. Although I may not represent taxpayers and have not been elected to speak the European taxpayers'case, I do it here, and I'm willing to do things for Iceland's taxpayers, to a certain extent. I would like to point out that, of course, calculating is possible, by entering a currency alliance with Europe, that the interests of both the state and the households of the future are short-term. But it is always at the expense of European taxpayers, always that way. People may not think much of it here in Iceland, but I just wanted to say it's that way. Of course, for the long term it is not a reference to calming down, either by entering a currency alliance or by taking up another one - sided currency. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u113	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator who gave a very interesting talk that this is a subject worthy of a discussion at the Assembly Hall. It was interesting ideas that she wondered about. I noticed that she had the idea of having the kind of currency that might be known. There is a certain idea in economics that each one uses only the best currency for him and his company and pays in the suitable currency, paying taxes in the currency that works so that we actually pick up all the currency that works for us, and may be the best currency. This is an interesting thought, and it is very much examined. The problem with it is basically the same as a one - sided recording, for example, of a U.S. dollar. If we're going to take in American dollars, the problem is that we have to buy American bills, maybe for 40 billion, to replace the round bills and we're going to have to turn every bottom line in the banks into the U.S. dollar and hope for the best. The danger would be that if something went wrong, there would be money escapes and people wanted to take the dollars out of the country, move them out of the country, and eventually find that all the dollars that had been bought on a freightboard, these 40 billion, were done, and they had to buy more money for the economy. Any money in itself would escape the economy. So there would be no way to deal with it other than to call the U.S. bank and say, "Don't you want to lend us a dollar because we have to use it? The problem with one - sided recording is that there are no long - term benefits for the currency, and to the problem there are all the costs of dealing with very many different coins and never knowing what to expect with all sorts of gangs. You can have a calculator and figure it out, but this is thought to be the most expensive version of a single-sided currency recording. [[The president calls.]] I wanted to make this point.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u114	A respectable president. There was no question directly to me, but it is true that it may not seem easy to adopt many currency. I just wondered. Is it that complicated? Hv. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Sigurjónánsson noted that this is comparable to the one - sided recording of any currency. Does it really need to be? Is it not a slightly different procedure if, for example, it was because it was not the state that took up the currency of the first cast but only individuals themselves? I often wondered, even before a collapse, before 2008, and it seemed to me that there was a certain lack of vision for the prospect of not having discussed these money matters just in the good way, that people had not taken time to discuss these matters in their good language. I just wondered. Then some business was paying off in foreign currency, not on a large scale, but it was known. To some extent, it is still known today, to a much lower degree. I wondered what would have happened if a business had only paid off into a foreign currency, someone who would suit them, and individuals themselves had gradually adopted the others and these currency. Of course, in the end it will be that way, because the individual is practitioner, he is practical, to land with some one option or two, one currency or two. I don't agree with what. paritaprevir My son Frosti, Sigurjónsson, says that the idea is crazy or possibly difficult. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u115	A respectable president. Thank you for this conversation. All I wanted to do was add these questions to our subject that I really enjoy very much. The cost of such a multi currency system, where each individual takes up the coin that is suitable for him instead of providing a functioning currency for the State, affects the whole nation. We'd have to borrow a loan in a foreign currency, nobody would give it to us. Suppose we needed at least 40 billion of a foreign currency to do this, i.e. to replace the currently needed bills and perhaps hundreds of billions in bank accounts. It is much more practical for us as a nation not to pay interest to other nations for providing us with the symbols we're going to use here to do business between us, that we say, "We're going to make these symbols for ourselves, and we're going to call them a dollar, so we don't have to use canadadol, dollars, or euro, and we're going to save ourselves the interest. We might as well pick up gold, we'd have to buy gold outside expensive sentences, keep it in the Secret Bank, and exchange checks for these gold stores. There's one way. I'm just wondering that it's very expensive. It's the best business idea I've ever found that we'll be united in as a nation. I am not a spokesman for the Kingdom to take care of all things, but it is brilliant to ask a state to arrange for a currency made out of nothing by the state, without any loan from any nation, that we may have a more convenient business with our goods and services within the country. It is not the currency's job to become an international currency but simply a currency for our own needs. The Americans have taken it further. They have created currency that goes far beyond the United States, and other economics are borrowed from the United States. It is the source of a great wealth for the United States and a great slide that flows from these states to the United States. For that, the United States of America has become very rich, at least Bankers in the United States, although it seems to me that this wealth has not spread very well. [[The president calls.]] This is what I wanted to explain about these two different routes, one-sided uptake of one coin or many coins. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u116	A respectable president. I'm celebrating, for example, the optimism of my life. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Siglejonsson. I'm not going to make him cold if he has ideas that the U.S. dollar can become like a dollar, some income raise for the Icelandic state, or certain reserves for the United States. [[Up front.]] No, I know he didn't specifically mention it here, but I thought the comparison with the U.S. dollar might indicate that. Then I'm not making fun of the idea, of course, the currency can be certain products, and certain valuables are more important than just being a currency in the business of individuals or two parties. He can simply be that valuable and have great confidence in him as such that his value goes beyond that. There are dozens of countries, I think over 30 states, who have taken up one side of another currency, most of them American dollars, I think. It is not absurd to think that one currency could be so good that he could make it. Other than that, I just want to thank you. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Siglejornsson for his chat. I reiterate that if these issues were considered, I believe that it would have to be considered in particular whether it would be preferable to have a multi-minding system and therefore what would be a barrier for such a small country as Iceland to record it. I don't want to make a lot of mint profits for what it is. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson likely referred to the benefits of the publication of his own currency in the United States. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u117	V.E.G. President. This has been very informative and, in some respects, enjoyable discussions. Here are some statements but also speculations, and it is good to have a conversation in a chamber where people question, for we are discussing matters that are not in black/white color, not at all. There are, of course, some aspects of this. The matter of conducting a study and study and discussion on the subject that is unconcerned is a subject that we face to discuss in the future. I said there were speculations. I don't know exactly what to do. paritaprevir The Hrafn Drafni Gunnarsson was serious, or whether he was joking when he said that it could be a protection for Iceland to become a global financial center. In fact, this was said to bring about the collapse of a certain minister of a former government who made it a solemn declaration of the vibrating voice in the Harp before the financial community in Elder City that he had a dream and the dream was that Iceland would be a financial center. At that time, the free transport of capitals, that they should be allowed to flow freely across national borders, and to cross the borders, and such ideas have been reassigned much west of the ocean and east, of course, in the United States, to the cradle of capitalism, as well as to the cradle of the marketism that the European Union has become in the past. The fact is, however, that neither in the United States nor in the European Union has it brought great freedom to the benefit of all communities because it is very incontrovertible. In the United States, we know that surveys have shown that there are increasing divisions in the United States, as is the case with Europe. I am relatively new to the Council of Europe in Strasbourg. It presented a report, which had been developed in cooperation with OECD, or based on the statistics from which they developed, or so did journalists, that in general 40% of the European Union had not played a part in economic benefits in the past years and decades, and that there was an increase in discrepancies in spite of capital freedom and all the informed decisions that have been made in favor of that town. But also as I thank you for the discussion and question, for example, the benefits of recording other countries' currency, dollars or euro, such as some will that are en route to the European Union, I'd like to use the opportunity first. 1 strategist of the Parliamentary decree, Guðmundur Steingrímsson, is here among us and has followed up his case in the discussion today, asking him to go into restrictions on money transport, which were set up in taxation capitals, sometimes attributed to James Tobin, tobin so-called tax. The ideas are now growing on the European side and in the United States as well as across the world to inhibit venture capital investments that are playing with currency, small and large, for their own profit. What do you think? Guðmundur The Steingrímsson's idea that Iceland was taking the lead in paying for such taxes, and the benefits would be made to socially beneficial matters as this inhibited money - free capital transport and saws? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u118	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for interesting reflection. I agree with him that it would be interesting to take a closer look at the possibilities of informed Tobin cats that are in his heart. I think there's a great deal for a country with a small independent currency, to ensure that the real economy can enjoy the freedom it takes to do normal business with foreign countries, to put small Tobin taxes, as presented, on unwanted capital movement that can upset the currency's success and upset the real economy. These are well - known teachings. I think it would be very good if we could have the opportunity to discuss that matter in more detail at the Senate Hall. I have a question for you. A senator who deals with the currency alliance itself, which is discussed here. It has been presented as an option for continuing a dollar, the only practical option. According to the World Bank report and many of the above, it is the only practical option in future currency matters for Iceland to be with either a dollar or a euro, into the currency alliance. Now there are Nobel laureates, which means economists, and Joseph Stiglitz has said - can I read and quote English?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u119	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u120	Then, by President's permission, I'd like to refer to the European Union itself. Paul Krugman has said: "The union was a huge mistake. Thomas Piketty says: "We've created monsters. What these parties are most unhappy with is that the perimeters of the currency alliance experience so - called harsh or harsh in order to survive within the currency of the union. This hardship always strikes the workers, the homes, and the little ones, but the rich are able to get out of the country with their money. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u121	According to the president, when translating the text together, it is permitted to recite English or foreign text.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u122	V.E.G. President. I'm glad to hear what's going on. A senator on the Tobin tax, reflecting on the fact that Iceland has promoted such taxes on a international scale. This is a discussion that is taking place in many parts of the world. With regard to the perimeters and tensions and conflicts in the single currency area, it was in my speech earlier to argue that the target of the European Union originally set itself, to reduce tension and make peace, to turn up into its arc, and we would now be seeing it happen in the tensions that had developed between the northern European Union with Germany, the Netherlands, and other strong areas in the front, as well as Greece, Portugal, and Spain. This is the natural problem, that there is an effort within a single currency to establish a common money policy, a common policy, and enforce it. It was no secret that the idea was and is, in part, to us, that the European money bank would have a criminal power if any part of the currency business or state that would be involved in it were out of rhythm or would not accept conditions established by the money policy. We now see the consequences of such a course. I repeat: This image is not black/white. It has many moderns, and there are many aspects of these matters that are worthwhile. Thus, in many respects, I feel that this discussion has been very good and has shed light on various dimensions that are covered in these issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u123	A respectable president. I think I know what. A senator is an amateur for democracy, that it is respected and important to honor it. It seems like a perimeter, e.g. Greece, has experienced some kind of democracies by joining the currency alliance. The question is, is it not that by offering up democracy - the nations have even had to endure the change of leaders because of their lack of approval? As far as I know, in the midst of the economic crisis, Brussels may have thought that he was involved with the people who were acceptable leaders for the peripheral states. [[Up front.]] For example, in the entitlement of national law in Greece, which was important, the currency - sharing bank closed Greek banks for three weeks, and it was a complete question of what would happen. Fear control is actually used, and it is, in effect, blackmail, in the pursuit of a national law that is to be expressed on a vital question. It's such a joke that you can't look at them without compassion. And to play Iceland in this position, I can't really imagine. I don't trust anyone who controls the European currency alliance. I just don't trust them. Should we trust them to care for our interests? Or will they do as they have done in Greece, take care of the interests of those with all the big money, protect the interest of banks? Saving the Greek banking system worked out saving French and Spanish banks, didn't it? Is it some kind of conspiracy? Was it a rescue of the common Greek? I wasn't aware of that. But it was Greek for the common people who heard the song that it was so successful to join the currency - more work, more stability, less interest. But what is the situation today? Can we not face the same situation if we make mistakes in the economy or experience some external calamity?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u124	V.E.G. President. I wholeheartedly agree with the emphasis that is going on. Senator. There have been various reasons why Iceland has been involved in the European Union. Many have looked to the power of resources, especially the marine resource. Others, though, have focused on or have looked more on the democracy. I'm one of them. I believe the European Union is too driven on the basis of marketism and other factors force them to think. This is, of course, true for the countries involved in the European Economic Area. The problem, however, is, as I mentioned earlier, that one thing is to walk in the European Union or that is why it is happening to a member of the European Economic Area and the other to walk out of it. It's not the same decision. This is what the Greeks have been fighting. If a vote had been asked now whether the Greeks should adopt the euro or walk in the European Union, it makes me feel that they would not have. A very different question, though, is what they do in the present situation. I now believe that I was no longer a member of the Syriaza Party after what happened, but was in a class that was rather smaller and, unfortunately, unable to hatch over the threshold of 31.74% but was concerned, I think, one fraction of a percent to cross there. Who fired Varufakis? I think he made his own decision after Merkel and the real European rulers made their violent decisions against the Greeks. [[The president calls.]] That's another story.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u125	A respectable president. It is remarkable how much this discussion has been about Greece. We're not talking Greece. We're talking Iceland. If we're going to compare Greece with Iceland, we'd have to compare all the factors of the natural world. There are quite a different conditions in Iceland than in Greece. In order for all of this to be fair, we would also have to compare Iceland with other European countries that are not in trouble and live with Euro. I may make a comment to another excellent discussion, that it has simply turned too much into Greece. Many things can be said about that. I can tell by myself and what. paritaprevir When we discuss these matters, the attitude of Jónasson's son is concerned about quite similar things. There's a red thread in it anyway. A senator's financial system can produce injustice. That's what I think the U.S. has done. I feel that the amount of money I have given from the many workers to the few chosen ones is easy. She has done so in decades. I also think it's an obsession that the crescent reductions involved in the crime of the crown, repeated, are a necessary price for the level of employment. I think this nation can well build up a job without paying for it with a break. We are alone to discuss similar things. We want a just financial system that attracts the masses. But I come up here to answer a question about Tobin tax, but I'll go over it in the latter part of my reply. I can say that I don't think it's impossible, but I think there's one key question about that: How high would he be in Iceland? Because if this is a control device to try to protect the economy from unwanted capital transport, the key question is, how high would this tax be? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] In the case of the old farms, which is a Tobin tax, there are some 303/40% taxes. [[The president calls.]] Do we remember?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u126	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson's brοthering countermοther. It is true of Greece, the thought was not speaking here in Greek politics or Greek economics, but the natural fact is that when we discuss the currency issues, the pros and cons of certain ways that are going on in it, it is not enough to keep to the Teoria alone, we also want to watch praxis, we want to look at reality, and then we will look at the paths that may be more important to other countries or other regions. That's where Greece comes in. I agree with that with what. A senator that if a comparison takes place, he needs to do it in a very complete way rather than take some specific factors out of his system. Back to Teoria and praxize. It is true that, of course, we are to design and organise our economy so that we are at an all - time peak. That will happen without us becoming a subjugation of a great radiance in the currency. That's the request. But I'm looking at the reality back there. In the wake of one of the greatest dives we've ever taken as society and economic unity, when the income markets of state and rural society and businesses have stumbled, we are faced with a reality like this. In this situation, do we take all the failings and try to take the counterclockwise, or do we make it work for some part of the nation with unemployment? It is the life of many who have faced similar situations. Then there's the amount of tobin tax. No, I'm not talking about 30% tax and looking to the broken-up farms here. Rather, we're talking about some tiny percentage that would return to huge amounts if the percentage was placed on a global scale. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u127	A respectable president. I'm gonna try to focus on answering a question about the Tobin tax. I can't rule it out. I think this is an interesting way to try to prevent certain lesions in a global financial system. I think the key is that this is a multinational strategy not to end up just one nation with Tobin tax, I think. In fact, I find that even more important, I said that Icelanders are not allowing themselves to be exposed to these tax waters, which are even very close to us, in Luxembourg and the Netherlands, which we are detracting from, which men are using to remove wealth from places where they create and from places where they are to pay taxes. It's a problem in America, it's a problem in Britain, it's a problem here. If the Tobin tax wasn't going to be everywhere then it'd be natural too -- I might suspect the same countries that have these tax codes not to have Tobin taxes either. So we might just see even more problems related to the tax industry if it didn't become a multinational one. But with our international focus, I think we should keep our eyes focused, along with the G-20 States, trying to overcome or prevent preconceived taxes. I understand the Tobin tax so it should be a control device. But in a matter of course. The senator can hear that it is also a income source, and he may not be. If it is a control device, I'd like to point out that the problem of the Icelandic economy at the time of the cost transfer has been huge in recent years, so much so that we have considered adding 39% of property taxes on old living property that are not even contained. This is a certain way tobin tax, at least in early stages, it should be tax for capital transport. [[The president calls.]] Is there an Icelandic economy problem in moving money with a small dollar so large that Tobin tax would be here quite amazingly high if it was to function as a control device? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's the big question.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u128	V.E.G. President. We're kind of landing together, me and what. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson, wondering about this. He referred to the G-20 countries that have actually had a report for themselves by the International Cash Fund on the benefits of taxes in this regard, and the European Union there has taken up the matter. There they have been talking about 0.01% tax on deduction, 0.1% tax on stocks and bonds. We're talking about this kind of taxation. I'd like to agree with that as a dog. A senator says about the tax industry. There I am where I began my speech in this afternoon on the subject of speculations presented earlier today in Iceland as an international financial center in a world where everything was open and free. One of those centres is in London. City of London is a highly independent unit in Britain. It is of interest that among those most strongly affected against the Tobin tax in the European Union, there are the British. It's because of the tax industry they're giving spelts in City of London. I agree with that. Senator. We are to put it into practice because we have the right to agree with those who want to stop the taxes. I'm gonna make it my last word.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u129	Mr. President. In many ways today, this discussion is very needed, and it has been fine. It's about the interest of the people in the country because it's very expensive to support the crown, it's expensive for homes, it's expensive for companies. At the beginning of the report with the petition we're going to discuss here, with the permission of a president: ▪ Economic instability, excessive prices, and high interest rates have long been characterised by the Icelandic economy, with the related effects on the public's life cycle and the workforce. The report quotes Iceland's National Bank of Education's Experts in the currency and gangs published in September 2012. It will be considered in the articles that the need for a political attitude toward the cost of being respected. I would like to, Mr. President, use the time I have here to review just any point of the Council of the United States, in this special issue of the year 2010◯2012, to lay the basis for the conclusion. But the conclusion, after their research and opinions, was that if Iceland was to pick up another currency, it would be best for EUR. Chapter 2 of this publication speaks of economic developments in the euro and reviews them precisely. Then, in chapter 3, we see the experience of the Icelanders of independent money policy and flexible gangs. This is explained in the chapter, and it is noted that the experience of others from a financial policy of formal inflation has generally been good. This is especially true of countries that had previously faced persistent problems, excessive inflation, and extreme instability. The chapter says, with the permission of a president: In this context, the experience of Icelanders is slacking. In general, inflation has been high and extended above its target. The ganging and inflation variability have been severe and overfished, and the national instability has been high up to the speed of economic depression following the global financial crisis. To date, the crisis seems to have been worse here than in other inflation target countries, although it is too early to be judged permanently, since not all larvals have gone down to the grave. - It's written in 2012. The chapter contains basic reasons for this mild - tempered success. As mentioned in this section, the structure of domestic farming is somewhat different from that known among most other inflation targets: the share of food and raw export is much higher in this country than in the general population, and therefore national farming is likely to be more vulnerable to international fluctuations in food and raw products. The poorness of the economy further enhances this problem than the lack of domestic production and exports allow for specialisation to become greater, and the national economy more unstable than in other larger economic systems. Thus, money management is likely to be more difficult in this country than in a larger economy, where employment structure is essentially stable. In addition, gang swings seem to affect domestic inflation development and do not appear to have diminished the production of the inflation target, in contrast to other inflation targets in countries. This point is discussed in detail. I don't have time to review this chapter further, which is very interesting. International and international integration of the Icelandic national industry are spoken of. The theory of the practical coin field is discussed in chapter 5. It shows that no definitive conclusion can be drawn as to whether a more efficient government is to maintain its own currency or to become a bigger coin site. At times, economic problems can become so severe that they can be handled more easily by a flexible approach. In other times, however, a flexible approach can directly increase economic instability, as well as the ability of its own currency to act as a business barrier, thus reducing economic prosperity. Thus, there is not a system for living that is acceptable to all governments at all times. Chapter 6 speaks of the economic benefit of involvement in the currency union. These include the subject of savings that could fall to the land of the State if we pick up another currency. Chapter 7 describes the economy, the risks of growth, and the economic structure. Chapter 8 discusses currency laws and foreign transactions. That is exactly what is said there and how it says that just where Icelanders can profit from recording another currency. Studies discussed in this section are based on statistical assessments of data from a number of countries and reflect potential impact on the average country. It is not excluded that even a small amount of Icelandic national farming could increase the impact in this country. The shortness of breath leads to the production of only relatively few brands of goods in this country. Therefore, Member States should make it easier to start exporting and sales in a larger market. The Member States should make it easier for them to use size-separation resources for production and sale, resulting in an increased economy and a lower cost for domestic work. Thus, benefits are drawn. The cost of clothing and the system of gang care is discussed in chapter 11. I think it is important for us at this time to read that chapter very carefully. It examines whether the structure of the economy is important when property - price bubbles are formed and exploded. A comparison of host and stock breeds among countries within and outside the European region suggests that there is a slightly higher incidence of property bubbles outside the European region than there was a consistent increase in the number of stock bubbles within the EU. Similar results are obtained when comparing the economic effects of the explosion of property bubbles. As with other studies, there appears to be a more costly explosion of housing because the reduction in economic growth is higher after it explodes than when the stock bubbles explode. In general, bubbles are driven more by high - quality loans and reach larger parts of the public, and thus, the negative effects are generally more widespread because of the impact on home balance accounts, companies, and banks. A respectable president. It's amazing how fast time is moving, and I can't get over what I want to say. But I certainly hope that this council proposal will succeed, for it is of utmost importance. It is vital that we make a political decision in this matter that we review in time but that we take a stand on these matters. We're always talking about this. The late bank has done a fine analysis of 600 pages that I have not read, but it is a very large publication that is most suitable for making a decision in the matter. We know it only the public. We've been swinging with the crown. It has also been high and the economy of homes and government funds, so it is not surprising that the least amount of dollars, the least independent currency in the world, is a choice for us, or that it is for us to keep the money down here, and that it is less productive.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u130	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for an interesting speech and the achievement of a 600 - page report in 15 minutes draws together the core of the report. This report contains a lot of good things. When it was published in 2012, it was very effective and useful literature that I read from cover to cover, and I can share in it much. After 2013, 2104, and 2015 have passed, I might find it interesting to know that the euro crisis has taken on control and remains as unsolved as it was. A senator would not agree with me that it was interesting that the late bat made an appendix. It would be interesting to know if it is still the View of the Secret Bank to view one of the most read economists today, generally called Piketty, the failure, the root of the problem - as a solution to our subjects. Is it not better that we try to solve our problems by other means? I really appreciate the feeling that comes with that matter. I think it's necessary to discuss the economy, each currency, and do it regularly. I'm not sure that it's a job we're supposed to do at the council. I don't think she'll solve it or somebody named in town. We are sitting here with a report of 600 pages written by the nation's most skilled money experts. I don't think there's anything to add to that, except this addition: What else have we learned from this currency alliance's failures? And is there any solution? Is it usually safe to dream of entering this problem?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u131	Mr. President. To begin with, this wasn't a deduction of the whole report, so that's what we're saying, we'd need more days to go over it. I think it's a very important subject. Why not assign the government to shape a future policy in currency? Once the government had that assignment, it would take advantage of the available literature and call for the missing views. But there's a reason. A senator saying here that Europe's crisis was a currency crisis, that it's the main thing that the euro has had to deal with currency crisis?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u132	A respectable president. I don't know if it's a currency crisis or a currency crisis, but it's a crisis that involves people and economy with very different needs, different economic systems, different needs for success and growth, using the same currency, the same bank, and it doesn't work well. This prevents the economic system of shocks, the costly shocks such as Greece - likely the roots of these are of various factors, the species of trauma, or the outside. The shock begins by the Greeks entering a currency alliance of overpowering gangs, too strong assorted. Almost that day, Greece becomes uncontestable. Jobs begin to move abroad, there are very few growths. Real estate companies and projects start in the country, way too much access to cheap loans. There will be a rise in the economy and then a huge crash as interest increases begin to rise in markets. I would say that part of Greece's problem is to have joined the currency alliance. Then the currency alliance prevents Greece from getting its weapons, that it can be adjusted as fast as it could have had this successal flexion. As soon as the shock strikes, capital flight from Greece begins. Anyone who can have a field pass, they can move the euro out of the country. The payers remain in an economy that has dropped by 20%. The debt is still in euros, has not dropped anything, might as well have been in US prices. The pay has dropped by 20%, real value by 20%. Unemployment has increased dramatically, with 50% among young people. This situation lasts for years. The government must sell property in order to finance private banks, to run out of money. The currency bank of the Coalition demands a pledge, of course. And none of this money pauses in Greece. It is taken out as soon as it is sent abroad. Everyone who has any money will send the money out of the country. This is reality. This is a European currency problem which is totally unsolved yet. I don't think there's any reason to rush in there until we see how this problem smells. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-06-16.u133	Mr. President. I think people now agree that Europe's crisis is not a currency crisis. While Greece is having problems, it is not possible to say that it is the currency crisis. I think it's important that we speak in the country's chosen public. How does the dollar treat the country's homes? How does this smallest amount of independence work in a world in Icelandic homes? We've watched how it's done. We, the people of the country, are regularly beaten down and taken away from our agreement. We don't negotiate for our own benefit, that's a dollar that's responsible for beating them down. It is not the benefit of the public at that time. It is the benefit of the exports of the country. Of course this combination is, it's a complicated example, but I want us to discuss seriously how our situation could be better by recording euro, why it's better for a Icelandic home. And if you find out it's not better, why. We do not do so on some form of emotional charge. Rather, we need to base it on facts, including this report won by the Navy. It is fine and extensive, although it is indeed possible to fix an Annex to her, I am not denying it. But that we try to base this on facts and, for example, to view the entire currency union as a whole, its benefits and its flaws, not on just one state that is having great problems, such as Greece today. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
