ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u1	Mr. President. I'd like to make it a subject of the sad state of the situation of road and transportation, as well as the fact that a policy of transportation has not yet been identified. Now we know that the road and the forwarding side have received a tragic payment on the two last funds in the history of this government, and that, of course, it is critical, but the most important thing is to face the situation as it is, that the road system is affected by major damage. It's going down and it's going down, so we're really peeing in our shoe about not parking at least. Money to maintain the country's road structure, even though you may overlook your new development. That's exactly what they were talking about during a study period at the General Assembly yesterday. It was best to say, rather, a sad conclusion and a sad concern over all that discussion. The same reality shows us here, an overview of a project to attack from the Road Building. In fact, it's so embarrassing that the newsletter is called News. I think it's time to revise the title of this fine magazine from the Vegast because it's no longer under the name as a project report. What is the main theme of this proclamation? Yes, there's a round reform, one reimbursement of the Bishop's Lane, a toast road reform, a seeding, and resurgence, a reimbursement there, a bicycle filling, and a shoulder repair. These are the titles for the projects listed here, all of them preliminaryly, because the road system is falling apart. There is nothing more to be said than to face the fact that we must place a considerable amount of money in the road system and that it is immediately this year. I certainly hope that a World of Congress, late on the transport program, will take matters into its own hands. If it is as sad as it might be expected from the government's performance until then, changes must be made. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This isn't working.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u2	A respectable president. Once again, I'm going to discuss Land Island in this hall. It is rapidly heading for 151 days from its closing date at the end of November 2014, and it is not likely to open until the next month's convention. There are five full months from now, and no ship has nearly sailed there the whole time, except for Vikings who have taken passengers twice a day since the beginning of March, or at that time, but before, the harbor was completely disorganized. This has led to serious consequences for employment in the Western Islands, in hotels, and in tourism, such as in other parts of the country. In fact, the amount of transportation that is so good when the harbor is in order. This has led to the attention of the dust from old ideas on a tunnel to the Western Islands. A study of the cost of building a tunnel to the Western Islands and running a Gelf from the landport for 30 years reveals that in 30 years there would have to be two new routes to the Western Islands, some 10 billion cost. [[Upwards to the years...]] The budget for 30 years is 30 billion and the sand canal at 9 billion. This costs about 50 billion in 30 years, but a tunnel can be estimated to cost from 30 to 50 billion. They must be paid once, but the rest must be paid over and over again every 30 years. Of course, they have to negotiate with the natural world to see if they're going to make tunnels for the Western Islands. However, there is a terrible situation in transport to the Western Islands that the road must be fixed as soon as possible. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u3	V.E.G. President. I have to admit, I'm getting a little nervous. For the council there's a lot of issues, many of them very urgent. Then I'd like to first mention your housing issues. The bills we have to take care of in the next few days and weeks. I assume that we who sit in this room want the same thing, i.e. To do good for the land, and for the nation, and to do good things, and to improve the appearance of the people. How, then, is it possible that repeatedly a man needs to be in this distinguished General Assembly Hall and listen to the demons - I would like to say, Mr. President of Congress, in the hands of the President? I believe there is a misuse of the meeting team. Yesterday, for example, a considerable period of time was spent discussing the absence of the leader of the government. Mr. President, I was shocked by that discussion. I think it's normal for people to want information about where the leaders are, but in the event of the answer, they don't have to continue talking about the same thing. Then the council is deliberately delayed, using the familiar language code. Individual senators teaching themselves about new politics and claiming at times that they reject old politics do not appear to be any of the submers of others in these matters. That's a sobering thought. If we mean what we say, if we really want to get good things done and improve the shape of the council, we must put it to work. We need to finish our assignments and do our job. If we don't use the time to benefit, we'll be here in summer. It's just a matter of time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u4	V.E.G. President. In my speech, I will introduce the same points as why. paritaprevir Shira Dögg Gunnarsdóttir. It is indeed sad to see how the council operates today. Now that the time is up to some point, there is an abundance of time in an arggratory and boring under the leadership of the president. What's sad about this is that this joint, i.e. President's conference management, it's almost no return. There we cannot resolve matters that are beneficial for the entire country, but many cases are waiting to reach 1st. Here at the council and be referred to committees for general payment. That's all they can do. Congress officials here often hear outside the council's walls that the council can be the most unremarkable and that too much time for members of Congress is on factors that are of no importance after all. In this context the program has been referred to as president's conference board, and those comments from the public must be taken into consideration. It is also true that many of them are "woe. " Congress officials who repeatedly come under the supervision of the President have given much thought to the small number of days left in the council and are wondering how the matter should be completed. During the same session, the members of the same council can count several hours a week. Should we not work better together, set up issues on the program and committees, make good informed discussions, as is often done by members of the council, where all members of the council are involved, aim to complete the relevant issues? If we do not succeed in completing these matters during the scheduled session of the council, there is no basis for stopping us from being here until the summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u5	V.E.G. President. I would like to discuss the planned elimination of the Reykjavík airport from the location where it is now. It's clear that everyone in the country is concerned about what's happening there now and I actually went up to the front door yesterday to see for myself the projects that have been built there. Since large - scale construction machines were digging up soil, it is clear that Reykjavík's airport will not be permanent in this location. In the current city of Reykjavík, it appears that in 2022, the east/west highway is to be shut down, the longest highway, and in 2024 the final course is to be completed. We're in position today that we haven't found a new field spot yet. It is searched with bright light for a place that could meet the conditions set out at Reykjavíkur Airport, but that location is not found. That's a serious matter. It may also be noted that more than 80% of the people outside the capital area want the stadium to be at this location because it is important for their arrival in all the services in Reykjavíkurburg and for health and security services. 72% of the Smokelands want it, too. There was a survey of the people of the country where 70 of you are. a man expressed his will so that the field would remain in this place. I'm really worried about where we're going and whether this development can be stopped and what situation we'll be in when the national security situation is upset.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u6	A respectable president. Yesterday, the president of the European Parliament signed a contract on the construction of a station house and on Theist smoke. I think it's a step in progress that we're supposed to celebrate. This has been done for a long time. It is not won in the history of this government, it was won in the last term, along with the decision of the Generals to provide specific coincidences to build up at Bakkas at Húsavík. At the same time as I'm glad that these contracts are in port and that they will be started and business should begin in 2017, I believe that we should change the agreements we've been making in the past few years and are still in the lake, and that the tax environment in Iceland for the business companies in the country will be chosen to come here and be here. That we are living in a company's income tax system in a way that goes down to 15% or 10% and we have the tax environment so that it can be done. The level of construction in this country has been shown to be higher, and more is the result of less tax on a company.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u7	Bullshit.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u8	It goes together, no matter what. paritaprevir Ingibjörg Ingadóttir calling here in Šbulll.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u9	This is wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u10	It is a fact that the practicality has shown over the years, and I challenge the present government and the whole body of Congress to keep it in mind in the near future to increase the level of construction in the country. I'd like to agree with what, at the same time. paritaprevir Steeringrimur J. Sigfússon, it's time to put more money on transportation plans and on traditional roads and to tend the roads of the country. So we have to stop for a short time in a tunnel. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u11	V.E.G. President. We began our Senate service yesterday after Easter break in the shadow of strike strikes and their growing consequences, including the growing number of deaths. in the medical system, and with good reason to worry that the first day of Congress was now in such a way that the government was absent and did not discuss this matter as much as anyone else. The conflict is about just and fair, as the interests of Icelandic society improve after its restoration. The government's message so far is that first the interests of more people need to be improved, which is unwise and direct humane. The union will support any attempts to improve the interests of the lesser, to ensure an increase in the lowest wage and a more reasonable taxation and laws that prevent the return of proposals and superpay. So it's strange to think that here comes reason. paritaprevir Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir, speaks of our payment in the tax system to get companies from abroad competing with low-paying areas like special areas in South America and elsewhere. Is it the job policy that's supposed to make a lot of money in Iceland? I'm going to get a kick out of what I was going to talk about, and I'm going to tell you that here comes another day after a long intermission, and I'm embarrassed to go into the state of government. I find it hard to answer the council, and on the day that there is a time of inquiry for the completion of the program - and for the completion of the program - and for the sake of calling it a question - that we will discuss in any way that we can get on a schedule which we want to discuss and take as an example of housing when two of the four primary elements, have not even entered the council and in a universal and educational committee destroyed time this morning. [[Up front.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u12	V.E.G. President. The previous day, many people around the world had the opportunity to draw attention to the tragic conditions common to street children. No one knows for sure how many children there are, but the United Nations Children's Fund estimated that some 100 million children are homeless and live on the street. I mention this to remind all of us of the great responsibilities we have in the international community, with all these poor children. But I'm mainly going to make a talk about the Icelandic children who are not good - for - the - worse parents. According to reports from Iceland's Habitat, in 2014 there were 11.4% of Icelandic children living in homes that were struggling to make ends meet, 10% of them lived in homes under modest limits, and 7.7% of those in homes lacking material benefits. There are a lot of children that all have their hopes for the future and the expectations of meeting and this when they grow up. But does Iceland have the same opportunities for children? In 2014, under a third of Iceland's children did not have regular leisure activities, but in 2009 that was 14.3%, a third of children. There are a lot of children. How many of them would be missing out on a hobby that many of their companions are allowed to enjoy because there is simply no money in the home when the food and housing bills are paid? And how many of these children would have parents who have to fight for their salary to reach 300 You. K. a month? Where Are We Going? Are we building here a society where children are really trying to be equal? I think most Icelanders want it to be and become political priorities to build such a community. But will the politicians answer that call? Not well enough, I feel personally, and unfortunately, a very large percentage of the people of the country would agree.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u13	V.E.G. President. I don't agree with peers who demean the vacation of housewives, but the reason I come up here is because I wanted to draw attention to that - Mr. President, do I get sound? [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]] [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] [[The president calls.]] I wanted to draw attention to the fact that on Friday, 20 pounds [20 kg] of high - power drugs were placed at the Cheflavor airport, which is more than was held this year. This success is achieved, according to a police press release, by the cooperation of many partners in law enforcement and customs, and by the ethicism and vigilance of employees from south and elsewhere in the system, and by the knowledge that they have on the case. The good intentions of these people, their vigilance, and their professional well - being are not enough because these activities have been financed for years, and it is urgent that cross - therapeutic partnerships arise in order to increase the legal authority to this sect. Thus, during the year last year, drugs were much lower than those of the past few years. Sadly, this is not because drug abuse has been reduced in Iceland, that is because the equipment is inadequate and we need to correct it. We all know the consequences of drug abuse, especially on strong substances, such as those taken at Leifs Station the other day. This will lead to the destruction of many lives, the lives of young people being destroyed. We can't afford to lose our young people in that black hole. That's why we've got to put together and raise the resources more than we can get to customs and law enforcement, especially at Keflavík Airport, where about 90% of all passengers are going. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u14	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying something with a what. paritaprevir Valgerður's Gunnarsdóttir's choice was to worry about the state of Reykjavík. According to this, I'd like to welcome the decision of the Government of Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunalsson to appoint a group of workers who will be assigned to see how regular international flights can arrive through the airport at Akureyri and in the field. The group will be represented by the National Institutes of Iceland, Istavia, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Professional Affairs and Development, as well as by representatives from different parts of the country. The job will be directed by the Ministry of Presidency. In recent years, significant evolutionary costs have been laid on international flights to and from North and Eastern countries. Several attempts have been made, and much knowledge is available. Around both airports, cluster projects are being carried out by the access of rural society and companies aimed at developing international flights, as well as cooperation between parts of the country. This work has not yet provided regular flights, but it is important to base on the knowledge and experience that are there. Similarly, it is important to base on the knowledge that has developed around regular voyages to the Middle East for decades. More than a million tourists arrived in Iceland by flight last year, and projections are expected to increase dramatically in the coming years. Much more of the foreign tourists visit just southwestern corner of the country, as we know, and other parts of the country enjoy the growth to a lesser extent. With increasing distribution of tourists throughout the country, pressures on nature and infrastructure can be distributed but at the same time provide opportunities for more parts of the country to build larger service throughout the year and to strengthen infrastructure. In the team's work, it is important that I consider flight service, other government services, product development, marketing, and so forth. I expect a clear conclusion on the role division of the state, rural society and private partners on these projects, but it also shows how best to coordinate the activities of these partners on a new flight care if success is to be achieved. If successful, there may be opportunities for Icelandic tourism to offer new products for tourists who want to enter the country. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u15	Mr. President. The council now has a bill on financial companies. Among other things, they are out to allow for increased bonuses and financial requests, which the one present here spoke entirely in return when that matter was discussed recently, i.e. to reinvigorate the citation of proposals and bonuses in the financial system as fortunate as it was now when it all worked out. It is a pleasure to know that the advance party has agreed to be against these bonuses and proposals, that they are moving to the left, and that they agree with the voices of the government opposition that strongly oppose the fact that they are going back into that direction. [[Up front.]] Then I view the matter as really dead in terms of it and that the part will be taken out when the matter is addressed to a financial and business committee where it is now, if the candidates hold the big words as they hope and show, I don't believe it. I think it is also very important that Iceland has banks that show community responsibility for the environment and are guided by sustainable development. We left green have spoken for such things. Such banks are active elsewhere in the North countries, where the work is built on green values and they work to sustain society. It's a pleasure to listen to the managers of financial companies like those in banks and shops, to be in the fishing barns, where a bonus plus a basic wage is just a fraction of what those in the financial institutions of the country were, so it's not equal. It would be nice to know the opinion of the U.S. S. Sellabanski, who has strong opinions about the purchases of low - paying people, in financial institutions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u16	A respectable president. I don't think anyone would object to the fact that Reykjavík's airport is one of the most important national trains in our country. We live in a country where weather conditions are very unstable, where we live in a land large in comparison with population, and it's a long way from going. We live in a land that is very scattered, and transport is difficult, especially during wintertime. We live in a country where emergency health care has increased to one place, i.e. To Reykjavík. On the other hand, we are so lucky that in our capital city, in the Hydromosis, there is an airport that works very well for flying. To a large extent, there is vast agreement between the people of the land on this lifeline or on the national path of our Icelanders. The airport makes it possible for people living in the country to know that if an acute illness occurs and a patient has to be sent in a medical plane, a plane will be able to land in Reykjavík, under most circumstances and the patient will be in medical care at the Land Hospital, a university hospital within a few minutes of landing. However, at the same time, you drive to the Ring Road, looking at the ditches that are preparing an apartment inhabited by an airport that will translate, if it keeps looking, that a so - called emergency path must be removed, as well as the total airport is not on the table of the present city. I ask: What interests do we gain here? I think the answer is obvious. It is national interests, and according to them, of course we should adjust our affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u17	A respectable president. Only to our work here and what was said earlier from two o'clock. The senators of the parish, who complained that there were people talking all over the place and nothing while important matters calmed down at the council. What is that? There are many things we wait for, but there are absolutely nothing available to the council. The most important thing, two, who have not yet been reached out of the government. We're just waiting and then we'll talk while they're not coming, so I'm totally referring this to the Fathers that came up earlier. In addition, individual senators were being fooled that they were not honest with their beliefs about preaching here better politics. I wish that it is not made from here on out of this platform to lie about this unless it is specified by whom, please. Another point, I didn't mean to come up for this, but it's a related case. It's the matter of the natural pass that we discuss on the job committee and that we have to be settled, but the case has been so closed that it is totally not prepared by a minister. Thus, there is an inunification on the contrary, and it is clear that a professional committee will not be able to resolve the issue because there is no one to agree with it. So, what are we gonna do? Here's the deal. I'd like to say it here before the council finishes that I will totally refer to the Father's House when the tourist attractions are to be seen because their structure is not funded because the tourist pass is not supplied. [[The president calls.]] This is not because the government situation fails, that is, because the majority of the parts are getting badly prepared here in the Senate Hall. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u18	V.E.G. President. I was kind of upset earlier. The delegates of Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir and Esu Lára Arnardóttir, in which they were courting that members of the council would not work fully but would be here for a disturbance of speech or to force unnecessary issues, such as the President's conference board. It is normal to present criticism, as we did yesterday for President's conference board at the highest level. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. A financial minister would not be here when a council met at the end of Easter in order to talk to the council about some important issues involving society all, such as the strikes of many groups and the delinquency of currency. To me, it is an enormously important matter that is probably natural and normal for us to call for a program and exactly under these points. [[Up front.]] However, they need to be discussed at the meeting. It is true, however, that the matter was not. Senators that a lot of cases await the appointment of the council and the Senate days we have made are few. But the more important thing to me is that we have not been assigned to Congress since councilmen, who have been announced since autumn or since the beginning of this council, with the highest facilities from the highest level. Secretary of society and housing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u19	A respectable president. Now I have to make comments to a word. The senators of the forward party, saying that the government had been talking in the public chair yesterday. Of course, at this meeting the voice of every senator is important, and each member of the council here has the right to come up here and express his opinion without being called a striped by the wind. Councilmen. That's totally ridiculous. When the presidents of the government, the heads of the country, who are not much of the country but more of the sons of the country, come here not to explain their words, and to do after a long absence, and the discrepancies that are evident between the parties, then the chairman of the President is the only available platform for government opposition to express his opinion. Hv. As with other senators in this room, members of the House must endure the situation that all members of the Parliament have the right to come up here and express their opinion of how the country is being ruled. When I'm at the highest. Prime Minister acts like a dictator in the Book of Tanna, thinking that he can only appear on the steps of the Council and report a transfer of buildings, new buildings that are not to be built, replaced by text messages here and there, move to the jurisdictional limit, etc. With pen notes, the senators will simply have to endure criticism.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u20	Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u21	They can't make up for the fact that people were going to come into this council and announce new politics when it's criticized, to be betraying that promise, because it's not just an old-fashioned trick, it's a bad practice, it's bad politicians who act in that way, and that's why, so, I'm going to repeat it for a reason. Residents of the Superintendent, adventurously poor government on power in this country. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u22	A respectable president. I recommend a Senate resolution on the National Directive for a continuation of discussions about Iceland's membership in the European Union, in the absence of the 1st mission, please. paritaprevir The Árni of Páll the son of Árnason. The movers to the proposal are in addition to him who stands here and why. Senators Guðmundur Steingrímsson and Birgitta Jónsdóttir. Following the letter at its height, we make the suggestion on behalf of the government side. The minister of foreign affairs sent to Brussels for details of the European Union's affairs has been completed. As a result, there was some controversy over the meaning of that letter and exactly what it meant, but it can be said that all the discussion led to our leading parties that make the government stand decided that it was right to unite in the proposal of national pay. In fact, that is not new, since all these classes have already suggested some of these suggestions in these discussions. The proposal is that national contract should be undertaken on 26 September 2015 for the continuation of Member States' activities. The following question will be asked under a national law: ▪ Do you know that Iceland will take up a short talk with the European Union, with the aim of making a contract under which the nation would be signed for approval or innuendo? There are not many words, although it could be done on the topic under consideration, in the European Union, but there is absolutely one of the major issues in Icelandic politics for several years. In fact, I participated in that discussion ever since I was formed in a European Commission led by Björn Bjarnason, former chief of staff. A senator and a chief. Minister, 2003, who produced a 2007 report on the communication between Iceland and Europe and the European Union. It is, in fact, remarkable that we have not yet carried out the proposals set out to strengthen communication so that we are still having trouble when it comes to create the production of EU types. The draft hall referred to in connection with the introduction of the EEA types has been a significant topic recently discussed, and this is especially due to the fact that there was never any suggestion on the growth of communication. It is quite clear that in international relations such as those we have with the EEA deal, it is important that both parties are cared for and laid men, time and money. Of course, the question about the European Union was prominent when the above report was prepared, and it was also on tables in the European Committee the second to which I participated, led by the present and present circumstances. Councilmen of Ágústsson and Illugi Gunnarsson Then, as we have learned in 2009, and as we have discussed in this hall, it was decided that applying for involvement in the European Union so that the nation could decide whether to become a member of the European Union or not. Then there was a recession, and in this terms, there has been a break, we can say. Here was a proposal to cancel the application last year, but she lived at the council, it was referred to as a question. The foreign matter committee, but discussions about it were never finished. It can be said that it is the leading lead of the well - written letter sent during the days to Brussels. However, our proposal is not about whether or not to take a personal position on the European Union. It is about our seeking the guidance of the people in this matter. In view of what I've said, since Iceland became a member of the EEA Treaty, it can be said that the question of involvement in the European Union was alive in Icelandic politics, has been controversial and discussed on a regular basis, and is likely to continue. So it became my conclusion and a number of others who believe that our interests are better off outside the European Union than we should be able to get some bottom line in the discussion, end the case, and the best way to get the people to give up their position on the terms of a contract. However, this was not the case when the talk was interrupted, so it can be said that this is a compromise to seek guidance from the people. The suggestion is to ask for the rest. Of course, this is a suggestion for four groups. I am saying that in the left movement, we have not seen any resistance to such questions even more, i.e. More guidance would be sought and more questions would be raised to the nation. But we're happy that this is the question that will be raised, i.e. questions arise about whether people want to complete their discussion so that they can make their own decision on this big matter. For very many who have participated in the discussion, this is a test for democracy. This is an enormous issue, many aspects of it, and as I've always said, the European Union is not a static phenomenon, it's developed, it's gone through political fluctuations, just as national states go through political fluctuations. Its strategy in the 1980's and in the '90's was strongly established by the rise of liberalism, such as politics in general, to form in Britain and the United States. The politicians were also preserved in the European Union, and they had a powerful right - to - right effect that makes me feel that I have, for example. The development of the financial system in the European Union was very urban and has been found to be in the way the European Union has dealt with the current crisis. But there are also positive things that come from the European Union, we can discuss a variety of progress issues, for example, in the field of environment that we could, of course, have done ourselves but, to some extent, have introduced through the EU making for European impact. In this regard the question has been known to me: What position do we have to take in this relationship, and are we willing to do so with its benefits and weaknesses? The results of my movement have been negative in this regard. I don't necessarily agree with other transporters, but we agree that this big, important matter has changed, has changed dramatically over the past few decades, and we are to celebrate the demands of greater democracy in the United States. We are to celebrate that requirement. I'd like to put the proposal in context of the fact that we're now a couple of members of the Parliament, members of all political parties at the General Assembly, together at the Board of Directorates to make proposals for a change in Iceland's Constitution. I certainly hope that there will be peace between groups here at the council to bring about that change. One of our talks is national pay, that a certain part of the nation can demand national payment on certain matters so that they will be subject to the nation, that there would be no need for any intermediary to carry out such votes, but that a certain part of the nation could simply require it. It is a natural law that I know of the developments in democracy and the changes in the practices that we members of Congress are to welcome. Because I certainly don't think that this will in any way dishonor the representative democracy that we are building our community but will strengthen it and give us who are here an important asset that the nation has this way. I hope that will be the conclusion of the Constitution board, and I hope that that will be the decision of the General Assembly and the Nation. If we put the matter right here in this regard, would it not be unlikely that the nation could demand a vote for it without our saying anything about it? We can ask ourselves, " Am I not prepared to take this very matter into consideration and dare to look to the people for guidance on what they want to do, where they want to go, and to be ready to work according to their will, regardless of their own attitude? ' Of course, it's a big trouble when we insist on defending directly democracy and the public's impact that the public doesn't always agree with you. It can be a complicated attitude, and I've seen it in this room where I've been repeatedly asked how it can go together, wanting a national law on a case that is against yourself. Mr. President. I don't think it's a problem. In this case, I believe that the democracy is gaining weight, that the matter is of that magnitude, and there are so many aspects of it that we naturally seek the nation's guidance and agree to accept its democratic guidance. It's in the spirit that I speak for this proposal. I know, however, that we may disagree about the European Union, as I have explained, but that doesn't change the fact that I think we could agree on this. I testify that behind this proposal there are the presidents of every category of government opposition, but I also testify that before the last election, the heads of the governments made a promise that a national agreement on the continuation of this matter would be made. And no matter what a man can say afterwards, it's all real and easy to look up and I don't have to look it up, because I've arranged a lot of meetings with the heads of the Action Party and the Independence Party where this was promised and even told by the head of the Independence Party that it might be good now to have such national pay for the first part of the term, and we're past that time. From what was said before the election, I thought it would be easy to keep that promise and such a vote so that the nation's guidance would be at least The file %1 has reached its maximum seed limit. Do you want to connect to the server? Then I find that, although the time is short, people have said that it is a political impossible, as it has been said, that a fine new word has been put out of this discussion, to enforce a policy that the government does not agree with. Yeah, it's complicated, I'll admit it first, it's a pinch, as I said before, "I'm going to have to pay a decision in a folk bill that you don't agree with." Of course it's complicated and difficult. But I don't think it's impossible because, as I said before, the democratics get a lot heavy on it. I find it necessary to remind, however, that this impossible situation should have been revealed to government leaders for elections in this way, when they promised a vote on the subject. They can't have realized it since they sat in government that they couldn't do that. I can only believe that they thought their promises for elections better than that 15 minutes after election, they realized that it was impossible. By accepting this proposal for discussion here and for discussion on the basis of the question. I'm counting on at least we're gonna get a little business. A discussion of the ways in which people will handle this matter in some way, to ensure that the people will be guided, as all classes have spoken, and we will find a reasonable solution to the matter, so let's not go into the trouble I feel it was in. True, some might say and will say: The European Union is such that there will always be conflicts and has been in many other places where this has been discussed. When we look at it, it's not that small. We have seen governments on such negotiations that have been classed which have not agreed to enter the European Union. That is so, and even though men sometimes wanted to say something else, it's just not right. So it's a variety. I hope that men in this room and in the field. The Foreign Affairs Committee is prepared to discuss the proposal objectively, with the goal that we can unite in searching the national guidance of complex and difficult issues, with many sides and being prepared to do so despite the opinions and opinions of each of us on this big issue. In that case, I suggest that the case be referred to. The Foreign Affairs Committee following this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u23	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The prominent speaker of the case for a fine talk that was given in many places. The conclusion now lies ahead. A senator says that she and her partners want to make a national bill on the question of whether to continue our talks. Then I'd like to go inside. A senator, depending on her view of the question, whether it is appropriate for her to continue a discussion, and if so, whether so. A senator believes that it should be done on the same basis, i.e. on the basis of the case's divorce in January 2013, or whether it feels that the basis has changed in some way at the time since it has passed so that there is a reason for reviewing whether a discussion will be made on the part of Iceland on the same basis or a different basis from what was then available.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u24	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's question. We discussed this at our last national meeting at the left-hand motion. There I supported the proposal that a national agreement on the proceedings and that the nation's guidance would be sought, but the proposal that led up in the spring 2013 Summit was that treaties should be concluded and elected. I would shape my attitude based on the discussion that has been in my movement on these issues, where people have put the focus on a democratic position. However, regarding the changes in the circumstances - as I said earlier, the European Union is not a static phenomenon and has changed in the European Union since we stopped the discussion in the spring of 2013, so, of course, we need to look at the changed criteria if the conclusion was to continue our discussion. On the other hand, a large agreement between different parties was established, but, of course, things change rapidly in the European Union and at home, so that they always need to be taken into account. I understand a question. A senator like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u25	V.E.G. President. I think that's the essence of the discussion we need to discuss here, i.e. whether or not the criteria have changed. For example, I think that it occurred in the middle of the last term, which may not have been completely clear at the beginning of the career, 2009, that it was very difficult to get clear lines about the section of conversation that was predetermined to be difficult. It was clear that on the part of many in the existing United States and the left greens, there was an interest in getting clear lines of marine eco-efficiency and agriculture early in the process, but the conclusion was that it stopped in 2011, despite repeated efforts by a minister in a government they have described in excellent books, to force the European Union's stand on the subject for discussion. [[The president calls.]] I wonder: If you go to the people and ask if you should continue, don't the reasons why you need to be a little clearer than they are today to make some sense of the question? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u26	A respectable president. Of course, if the nation decides to withdraw, as suggested in this suggestion that they be asked, then of course the situation needs to be reviewed. You're right. One senator says that it would have been wishful that the position in the fishing and agricultural sectors had taken place earlier in the process, but if we are going to begin it again, I feel that in reality it is necessary to review the situation and see what has already been done remains unchanged and what is not. I think it's because in a process like this, we don't have static sizes where nothing changes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u27	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, for her speech on this synonym. I have to say, I'm really glad to hear it. A senator now gives the nation's guidance on this important matter. I also rejoice that the Continents now want to look to the country for guidance in this regard because it was what the Independence Party concluded in 2009, that the nation's guidance should be sought as to whether to initiate partnership with the European Union or not and then to carry the agreement that would come home under national law. This was rejected by then presidents and members of Parliaments both the left green and the United States. Hence, there is reason to rejoice over the conversions that have taken place in those camps during the years since the process began on July 16, 2009. My opinion is clear on this matter. I feel as I was in 2009, that it should be applied to the nation, and I look to them for guidance in this important matter. Therefore, I welcome the conversions here, hoping that a discussion of the synopsis will be made to discuss whether a body of Congress has the courage to look to the people for guidance or whether we are going to get involved again in this matter, as we did in the past.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u28	Mr. President. As I've said in the past, I still believe that the right to maintain such a national law was to be kept before this process was started. I'm not shy about acknowledging that you can learn a lot from being here and taking part in politics. That's my conclusion. On the other hand, I rejoice over the support given. A senator makes this suggestion in his speech because I think it is very important that we have the courage to ask the people for guidance in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u29	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for her history. She became aware of the nation's guidance and that the political groups represented in the democratic Parliament needed the guidance of the nation. I wondered because I didn't think it would be clear enough. A senator, an executive of the case, what her views are on this matter. Is the left movement's objective ▪ greendesignment to be involved in a discussion with the European Union? And even if not, what would be the objective of the left movement ◯ green supply in such a business discussion? I thought about it, too, and it would be fine, if it were. A prominent speaker might add or briefly explain to me what it is in this special matter, the matter of diplomacy to the European Union, which is so large that national guidance is needed, that democratic elected representatives at the Council need the guidance of the people to take their stand on it, as compared to other issues that are being discussed at the World Council, which are the nation's major interests for the future, such as Fortifications, construction of a new hospital, and continued. I reiterate that if I understand the proposal correctly, it is just a concierge of terms, not of entry, but of conversation, but of what is it that is so large that it needs to be guided by the people?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u30	Mr. President. I feel very positive if we are going to go to a greater extent to look to the people for guidance. A senator mentioned several times in opposition to him in various matters, not just this matter. After all, we set aside the left-green to form a national law order in our time for Kálólna's inactivation because of his condition. A senator names the continuum transfunctioners. We have had a suggestion for national law on the Atlantic alliance, which was joined without national payment and that had better been elected at the time, so yes, we adhered to the policy of looking to the national direction on an increasing scale. It is not only in national law, it is, of course, not the only way, but in everything that we are working on as elected representatives, whether as members of Congress or ministers. Ministers have an enormous opportunity to look to the people for guidance by calling for information about the probals and the like. I personally took part in a very interesting project on developing regional policy for the whole country. Thus, national conventions were held in parts of the country where residents and stakeholders met and gave us guidance on how they wanted the land to be developed, not just on the basis of our members, but on the very basis of those who live in the country. I am a great follower that we seek such a course, and as I say, national pay is not the only way. However, we have provided many suggestions for such votes on different matters, so there is nothing specific about this particular matter. On the contrary, this often applies to large, controversial issues that can help us to obtain guidance from the people. As for the European Union and our policy, I have repeatedly said that we are opposed to the European Union on the grounds that I have often covered and do not have time to make this brief answer. However, it has also been our partnership's requirement that, despite the fact that people are against them, they are at home to make a decision, and that is what I felt was at the back of my mind. A senator is asking. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We've thought it could go together and try to run our policy through those views.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u31	A respectable president. This is in part what I was asking about, but there's one more thing left. As far as I know, the left movement has been able to resist involvement in the European Union and, in fact, memberal discussions as well, but it would be interesting for me to hear more about how. A senator, the chairman of this case, envisions the arrival of such a class of member talks. Has VG developed a view of the contribution made by the category in the Member States?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u32	Mr. President. Now, as I said earlier, I tried to explain to the United States and the United States that it is, of course, a complicated position to believe that our interests are better in the European Union than to be prepared to do it if the proposal is approved and that it is to form a picture so that the nation wants to continue their talks. Then I would think of it as our lot to get the best results for such a nation because the nation's tender interests would grow and would be above all other interests. Then I think and it's my position that we can have a deal on the table, he can be good or bad and all that, but I still have a prince's position in this matter, and it's still that I don't think it's right that we're going into the European Union. I can appreciate, however, that the people are demanding this, and they are allowed to make the decision for themselves, and it is not just for the Generals to decide, rather than for other major matters. [[The president calls.]] I may have to give another talk about these matters later in the afternoon in order to explain them better, but there I believe that we would, of course, need to work primarily for the nation's interests. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u33	A respectable president. We're discussing something very important here, and that's why I miss that of 14 members of the rosary, not one of the members of the Independence Party. No one in that category will say good - bye about this matter at least as the situation is now. As it turned out, against who. paritaprevir The Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir of the Independence Party is a large story in this case for which he will have to answer. He needs to explain why he has changed his mind so thoroughly since his last term, not just here at the council, but that this matter has a purpose for the nation, but also for the campaign. It was not only the Chairman's words, which can then be denied after election, but it was written in the published policy of the Independence Party that there should be a vote on the continuation of conversation during this elected period. Other such ones run from their own promises, and you have not seen them. Men need to come up here and tell us why they are not prepared to follow their own campaigns, follow their own proposals here at the Council during the last term, and take into account the 55 thousand signatures of the Icelanders who have requested at the General Assembly that this case be done for the nation. You have to answer this if they're in more part here at the Council. It's impossible for humans to handle this as a sledgehammer. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir told us earlier about the discussion and what we in the government stand up to present at the council, that's not possible. 55 thousand signatures are not checked, 55 thousand are requested to arrive, and we must obey. A respectable president. I have to say, as it is, I don't understand the European policy of the government. All man has been doing here is say: Yes, we want to end this business and just do it somehow. Men have tried to suggest to the council, but it was not achieved by government groups to complete it. Then you start writing some strange letter that nobody knows exactly what you're talking about. Then it is said that the EU contract should be emphasised, the draft market reduced, and the European Union will be overrun faster than previously. The conclusion is that policy has not been established. However, we are at the point where we have the greatest attraction to a regular work from the European Union in all the internal markets. There is not a stone on a stone in the European policy of these administrations. And not only that, it's not just European policy, but it's the way people are acting, ministers in this government, that they think it serves Iceland's interests best to stand in public squares and try to make an ugly fellow out of the European Union and from foreign sources that we have in business and in our relationships, that matter to us. When it comes to creating an ugly fellow from the European Union, such countries as Dani, Sweden, Poland, Spain, Germany, Beelga, France, the Dutch are being spoken of. This is the European Union. The European Union is not some sort of independent phenomenon. The European Union is the cooperation of these and other countries. Such talk of these kingdoms, which we are dealing with in the same way as we do, is a tremendous mismanagement. We, who have been involved in the European Union, and have wanted to complete the Member States' negotiations and then ask them how they like their conclusions and make them decide, have done so because we have a vision of the future of improved living conditions in this country. One way to do this is to walk in the European Union, record euro and live in comparable terms, e.g. to buy houses, loans, and walks and happens in neighboring countries. One of the biggest biographies of our day is the question of which currency we are going to run here for a long time and how it will be done. And what will the government do? She will, in the spirit of the way she has worked from the beginning, just to tear down what has been done without answering the question about her options instead. We are to be closed, not opening up new paths, and we are not to be told how money policy will lead to the future. Nor should we say how we will communicate with or deal with a foreign country. We have so much money in this because the European Union is not an independent monster in the world. The European Union is a team of nationalities that we would like to compare with, which we would like to work with and which we have had good relations with since the establishment of the Republic. That's why this discussion is so important. The most difficult thing to understand in all of this is why people fear it so much to ask the people the question, Should we continue? What fears do people have about completing member affairs, making a contract for the nation of national law, and making a decision based on the results of the matter? I've never understood what men have to fear in it. Those who go the most aggressively, in opposition to involvement in the European Union, have declared that all of this is impossible. Why, then, can the nation not find out too about the real information available? Here's the signatures for 55,000 Icelanders. They're sending word to the Council that they don't want it to the highest. This is a decision made by Minister of the Foreign Minister Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson. They want to do it themselves. And what fears do people have that they do not try to ask simply the questions asked here? It is totally impossible for me to understand. We're here with a big interest and I don't like the man-made expedition, the government, when her main contribution to the case is to paint a picture of an ugly man out in the world, an ugly organization, ugly states that want us to be evil. In the meantime, these people are the people we are supposed to be in business with; Denmark, as mentioned earlier, the North countries. It's all the ugly European Union, that's what we have in most business dealings. We are just asking for men to get down from their high ledge, to return to the conclusion they had previously come to, that in the situation it would be best to ask the people how they should continue with this matter. That's all. There's nothing terrible going on here, there's no big conspiracy, some evil thing. That's it. Men were ready for this for a few losses. Why not now? Is it just because people have come to the point where they belong and are allowed to do this? You think they don't have to ask a king or a priest or anything because they're in the chairs and they're in charge? It is my hope that this discussion will eventually change that the rosary will represent the members of the board and answer our questions. They need to answer what they fear about putting this simple question to the nation, answer the reasons for this dramatic change, and tell us in a third way what alternative they will offer us in return when this door is closed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u34	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator and vice president of the United States, Katrín Júlíusdóttir, for her speech. I'm going to use her own words, and I'm going to think about it, because it's impossible for me to understand why the United States then in charge of government would deny the nation's guidance when it was a means of starting business talks with the European Union. It's impossible for me to understand. I also say: What causes the dramatic conversions that now take place in the United States when she suddenly wants to approach the people on this matter? These questions must also be answered in exactly the same way as it does to the administrations, or directors, of the administrations on why they are not going to fulfill the promises they made in the consignment of elections. [[For example, consider: We didn't make any promises.]] The United States cooperated with the left green before the 2009 election and formed a government with left greens. The issue of the left green was one of the fact that no contact with the European Union was to be undertaken. That promise was broken. [[Up front.]] The Conspiracy was all right then. However, the United States needs to answer this question: Why did she not agree to bring the members of the discussion to the vote on July 16, 2009, to turn to the nation as suggested, and what causes the conversions made by the Conspiracy today? A respectable president. However, I would like to know what causes my repentance, for it has not come to pass and was not presented at any given moment. A senator, despite what he was doing. A senator would find it impossible to understand many other things about someone else's repentance.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u35	A respectable president. During the last term, the category of the ones listed here gave the application, i.e. in the campaign for the last election, one promise in Europe. The application and contract were to be made for the nation. It was the methodology that was proposed, the methodology that was thoroughly introduced in the campaign, that was the policy of my party, and at which it stood, that the nation's democratic coming was a vote for a contract, of a conclusion. That proposal was made through the General Assembly, and it was taken here by the representatives of all members of the council at that time. Thus, the democratic commission of that proposal was strong no matter what a person would try to say here in the pursuit and in the runners at that time at the council. What we want to do now is to ask ourselves, " Do I continue talking with them? Or is it merely because we believe that this was, in view of the situation in which I am now, normal and normal, especially in view of the fact that I am going to cut off the council on those things? ' Fifty - five thousand people have wanted to answer that question. Hence, we find it normal to do so. However, it is the government's party to answer why they betrayed their campaign promises. We never betrayed any campaign promises. A respectable president. It's never gonna be more in my class than in my class. A senator, but that's not the issue. It's about what situation we're in at any given time. I've already described the situation when we agreed to take the route that took place during the last term. [[The president calls.]] But now it is the government class to answer why they do not simply want to ask the people what they think, especially in view of their praise. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u36	A respectable president. I'm aware of the vote on July 16, 2009, that groups here at the council agreed that if there was a deal, it would be under the nation, everyone would agree. But also with the suggestion to look to the nation for guidance before going. And now I'd like to ask what. A senator asks a direct question and asks for an answer: Why did he count it? Then, at that point, a senator with a group of colleagues in a government that was opposed to membership and entry into the European Union - why. A senator will then have to answer only in his own way but not in his own way - why did he pay back? paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir then votes against having the nation's guidance on starting up with the European Union, because at that point, a respectable president, was clearly more of the nation's involvement in this business discussion? Because the situation was just that with the people. So I ask. A senator again.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u37	A respectable president. I can repeat it, that was because I had promised something else. I had promised a different democratic approach to the case. I had walked around for an election, saying that I thought it would be normal for a contract that the people would later vote for. Now, however, this government is not only betraying its own campaign, both sides of the government, but it is also shunning the General Assembly of the Icelanders, where the decision was originally made. And when the situation has become so clear that men pass the Council, ministers walk past the Allied Council, betray their own campaign program, campaign campaign supply that the matter was not discussed in the process of elections, it was simply put to sleep by these promises, it is reasonable in such circumstances to ask the people about the next steps, because the government is not in charge of the project.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u38	V.E.G. President. I'm wondering what. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir agrees with the opinion that I felt could determine the answers given. paritaprevir Katrín's daughter, Jakobsdóttir, earlier, had to have some reassessments on the grounds that should be the basis for starting discussions with the European Union. In other words, I wondered why. In view of changes in circumstances and the fact that, among other things, the lungs from the last term could not be discussed in the European Union, which was perhaps the aspect of the conversation that was most intriguing, some thought that the most difficult and the most important matters could become. I'm going to wonder, " Count who." A senator that - we can put it this way - continue a discussion as if nothing has happened or as if it had nothing to say. A senator that in some way we need to revise the basis, that in some way we need to approach on the basis of a new requirement? Or thinks so. A senator that these tests are unnecessary right now?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u39	A respectable president. I like it. A senator adjusts matters as if the European Union were on the other side and on the other side and each person is developing entirely unplugged in different directions. It's not like that. We are members of the EEA Convention and through it we are in constant contact with the European Union. I don't think -- I don't remember what the number was, so I'm putting it out of my account - about 40% of the IIlsis's legislation is being done that we're recording from the European Union, directives. A respectable president. We have an enormously dense and close partnership with the European Union, take a lot of our actions and orders here, which leads to our being in a spiritual relationship with the countries involved. As a result, I don't think that there is any particular reason why we should reconsider the basis for the meeting of the Member States, the criteria that were as thoroughly accepted here during the last term as shown. The main points were discussed there, and there are no new groups of material that I believe we especially need to examine. We have evolved side by side, and our law and order have been developing together with European legislation at this time. So I don't think there's a special call for that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u40	V.E.G. President. I agree with what. A member of the Parliament about our close contact with the European Union and the European Union through the European Economic Area. However, the fundamental difference in this matter is whether we agree that the basis for our cooperation is on that basis or whether we believe that participation in the European Union is the way to go. That is a fundamental difference. In this respect it may not be my question, for there has never been a complexity in the context of the EU Memberal negotiation; to review a checklist on which legislation in the EEA field has been introduced and who has not. It's about the things that are not part of the EEA and that raise questions in this regard. For example, I pondered the seabeds. From 2011 onward, it was freezing temperatures. I'm asking why. A senator believes that there is a basis for starting a discussion about the subject now on the same basis or for changing what was then.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u41	A respectable president. The premise must always be going as far as we can to protect Icelandic interests and to ensure that our position in the European Union is at least inferior to other countries and that our special status as a seafaring nation will be guaranteed in one way or another. That must be the basis for what we walk out of it, and I'm calling it seabeds because of the wind. A senator specifically mentioned them. That situation has not changed in those years; it has not changed. It must be a government project every time to achieve the best contracts for Iceland. That's the groundwork we're supposed to look at. In the fishing business, I don't see anything that has changed in terms of the fact that these are still the fundamentals of our Icelanders, the marine outlets. We are in a unique position regarding that matter in Europe. It hasn't changed in that, so the foundation we're going to discuss has not changed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u42	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I just want to ask you one question. Now there is a need for participation in the European Union to show that most of the country's population is interested in such activities. For many years surveys have shown that the majority of the population do not want to participate or consider Iceland's best city in the European Union. The smaller part that claims to be involved, I suppose. A member of that smaller section - puts quite indiscriminate conditions for having an interest in membership, in fact, a very high prerequisite for receiving annuity with the European Union's principles. There has been no tangible evidence that the European Union is ready to make compromises that are needed to settle this smaller part of Europe, though it would like to examine its membership. On the contrary, the European Union has repeatedly stated that Iceland must submit to existing legislation and that efforts will only be temporary if they become any and such. Perhaps some part of the country is ready to enter the European Union without any conditions, without any notice, and participate in its current approach. I want to ask you why. A member of the council whether she belongs to that group or to a member of that group.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u43	A respectable president. I don't belong to that group, and I don't think any Icelander belongs to that group, regardless of whether he is in favor of membership or not, because that is, of course, the conditions given are that the interests of Icelanders are in the presponsibly in the Member States, and that we do not get less conclusions than other countries. Second, I must also mention that it is not right. A senator how he handles these matters. It is also a large group of people who want to know the answers to questions through business negotiations, answers to questions about the way the water resources are used, and the agricultural sector. And why do people think that there is something that can come out of the contracts that matter? This is because there are precedents in all Member States to date, i.e. that what has been classified under the basic interest of a talk nation has had some adjustments. For example, I mention the polarisation system, which provides another system for an area above 62 degrees north, north, wide, that includes building up more than one in Europe. It was created in the Find and then Sweden's accessories. There are precedents everywhere. There are many examples that support basic interests in the nations. Nor has it ever been in the Member State's affairs or in the results of the EU Member States having to overcome their fundamental interests. Never. Therefore, I believe that we can get an acceptable conclusion, for example, in the way of the sea, because it is completely set and undisputed that the sea streets are classified as the fundamental interests of our Icelanders. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u44	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer and thank her for answering the question of whether she is ready to participate in the European Union project without any condition. I hear what you're saying. A senator sets a high priority for the core interest of Iceland and calculates that everyone else does the same thing, so there is really no one who is interested in walking in the European Union without setting up the conditions that the European Union gives us an exception from its principles. On the other hand, a report by the University of Economics was prepared that examined how to obtain an exception from those principles. It wasn't much. It didn't seem to have succeeded in any way, which is why the application broke down. The last government has reserved the right to end the debate at any time, that it could end the conference and the government could end the discussion and probably not keep a national law on it. Does the present government have the same right to end the discussion? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u45	V.E.G. President. Hv. A senator knows as well as the rest of us that the application did not compromise that we did not get some point related to the seabed. The report that we have. A senator mentioned - of course, it is true that laws are not given directly. However, these laws have been changed during the parting discussion procedure, e.g. a new definition of the so - called Arctic economy. There are special areas where other rules apply. In a report as a coven member. Halldór Ásgrímsson, while he was a minister of foreign affairs, there was a very good analysis of how we could define the area around Iceland as a special administrative unit, based on very good evidence, thus achieving it in a comparable way to the Arctic economy. [[The president calls.]] So there are many ways, many examples. That's a narrow view. A senator is looking forward to just one sentence in the submission report when we have several examples of changes to the European Union's regulations in the context of decision-making. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u46	A respectable president. I remember a little bit when I asked the highest question. Minister of state for discussion a year ago, when the discussion with the European Union was to be terminated. A man had started to see this sentence frequently: We believe that Iceland's interests are the best city outside the European Union. This is one of the clichés of the discussion, very often heard, the highest. Foreign Minister used this sentence very often, and others who do not want to go to the EU use it very often. I asked the highest. Foreign Minister: What is this based on? What is the assessment of Iceland's best city outside the European Union? His answer was interesting. He said: "It's based on the approval of the advance party, the high-class releases of the forwarding party. He couldn't mention any report. No systematic assessment in response to Iceland's interests was the best city outside the European Union. Now, I just want to say what makes me tick in this case, what really bothers me in all of that: it's freckle. It's the passage. Precinctism. It is the freckles and freckles of women who are going to forbid me to reach informed conclusions in this large matter, who are going to hit my fingers and other people who want to read, who want to talk to the European Union, who want to find out what a deal looks like. Because one thing is crystal clear, there's only one kind of information that's important in this. This information is called a contract. We need to see what he can look like. I feel like I'm being told I can't read a book, that I can't go on a journey, that I can't think. That's how I experience this case. How should you explain to your children in the future why Iceland isn't a member of the European Union, or never finished a discussion with the European Union, broke them? Yes, my child, that is because it was decided at the forward party council. There was no food in itself, there was no information. It's just that it was decided. It wasn't a factor. There was once a man named Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson who did not want to join the EU. I'd rather be able to tell the other story that's much more democratic. We went through a business discussion. We finished them. We've reached the best possible deal. The contract board did a great job. But they did not want to be involved. She made an informed decision. That's a story I'd like to be able to tell my children. Not the others. I hate freckles. I hate bullying. It is against her that I am determined to fight on this matter. I can't stand betrayal, either. Those who are now members of the government, the Ministers, took care of this matter for the last election very simply. They said: "We're just choosing this. The discussion will not be terminated unless the people decide. There was no more talk in the campaign. That was the end of it. The EU was off-limits. In fact, the government stated in its government covenant that there would be only a pause in our talks and that they would continue only with the arrival of the nation. There is no mention of any wearout, not even after elections, not even in the government's own policy of ruling that antiquities should be terminated. I don't know how you can be more specific and obvious in the way you walk behind your words. It would be a very different attitude during the council if the party groups had made clear their elections: We're going to break up the discussion. We are opposed to walking in the EU. We're going to end the discussion. If they had said so. And if they had then said in the government covenant that a discussion would be interrupted, that would be in the best interests of their lives. Then the government after the election had a democratic authority to do what it is trying to do with letters into the world, as clumsy as it is. Then in itself you wouldn't have any perplexing position, at least not as strong a business position or reason to rush into trying to break up the discussion. Then it would have been chosen. It's so strange to have to go through these basics that political people get the authority to voters to do what they want to do. Does it really have to go through it? Is this not how political bitch works in a democracy, that one of the major causes of elections cannot be resolved in such a small way? Yes, we choose to, so we choose, and then they go to the government, and then there's nothing to vote for. No, just a joke, I didn't mean it. Of course, we'll protest it at a council. Of course, the people protest it. She has. After a weekend, thousands, a year ago, she came to the East Avenue and protested those plans. Not necessarily because people wanted so much in the EU. It was protesting the bullying. The traitors. The Fuhrer. This must be understood by members of the board of directors. The course of a bright future is very clear in this matter. We wanted to apply. We want to finish our talks. We want the people to choose a deal. We've always said, "What's so complicated about it? Other nations have done this. Why can't we do this? The talks went well. In fact, it was very much fun to read it in a report by the National Institute of Economics, Iceland, a year ago and then in a report by the World Health Organization, the success of our talks. Of 33 chapters that actually need to be negotiated, it can be said that only one was a problem, that is, the ocean's crust. There was always a problem for him. But we have a very good business place there. A report by the Economic Institutes of Economics, including the U.S.A. to indicate that there would be no longer be a problem with agriculture in the European Union Member States. But they were so determined that they would not even read those words in their own report. The conversation went so well that there was just one problem that everyone knew would be a problem and a difficult one and decided to save until last, as normal negotiations are, that was to negotiate the marine outlets. There is a good cause for concern, so there is no situation, and of course we should continue where the issue was gone. Hv. paritaprevir Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir has appeared here several times in the discussion, asking why people have not supported a motion offered in 2009 as to whether the talks should begin. That was the idea of a so - called double national law. I disagreed. It is in itself not the intention of a bright future to choose whether or not we should be involved. I repeat it. We believe that the contract should be completed and the people should vote for it. It is the enlightened national agreement. But now the matter is so full of surprises, so much confusion and fraud are so rampant that, of course, we will not be cut off without a national fee, and it must be the end of the nation. That's why we're supporting it right now. Then it is noteworthy that the members of Parliament who suggested double national pay, suggested that they be paid national terms on whether or not to begin the talks, do not support, appear to be, now exactly the same proposal to ask the people if we should be in these talks. [[The president calls.]] What Has Changed?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u47	A respectable president. Thank you for speaking anyway. Senator. Is it not true that the last government has applied for involvement in the European Union without any warning? She puts in a spontaneous application, Iceland is applying for involvement in the European Union, and there is no one in that application, so I can see, a form of interpretation, though with many warnings. That's what I'm talking about. A senator satisfied that he was applying for involvement in the European Union of the last government completely? Was this in harmony with the synoptic decree made here? Is the European Union usually taking care of the EU's pre-requisite applications? Didn't the last government leave full right to end business talks at any time without national law? And why does the government that is not now receiving the same rights? I would like to know the answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u48	A respectable president. It is at best a misunderstanding to say that Iceland applied without warning. [[The government...]] The application of Iceland was supported by negotiations, political resolution, with a detailed report. It is a little fun to relate that the report covers the conditions needed in a contract that would allow Icelanders to accept it, in other words, to negotiate. These objectives of the agreement are largely based on the Frustration of the Agency since January 2009, when the forward category wanted to apply for involvement in the European Union and there was one eight, nine conditions that the contract would have to meet. That would be very good. These conditions were used in a paper with the synonym for applying for involvement in the European Union. It is far from where men went blindly into the sea or on a journey without any promise in it all. What was the second question again? [[To the point, the men have reserved their right to break without warning...]] Yeah. Then I'd like to ask them back, "Why couldn't these groups say they wanted to end? " [[Up front.]] That's what it's all about. The party said otherwise. I completely reviewed it in my speech. Of course, it is the right of governments and members of Congress to break free, but it is honest to say that before elections, and it is also honest to say so in the government covenant. Neither was made. That's why it's a betrayal. It's not fair. That's what it's all about, not someone's right to do something.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u49	A respectable president. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator gets it all wrong. I think he's confusing the Senate hearing proposal with the government's members' application and applying for involvement in the European Union. The government applied for membership without any notice. This is not taken in advance. It's clear that I've looked at the letter as the highest. A former secretary of state handed over the enlargement manager in his own - Yes. [[You haven't even looked at it.]] It says there are no warnings. [[Up front.]] Is it? Then it can be corrected. But I didn't notice that this was where the warnings of the party were given. On the other hand, the last government and last council were entitled to end the matter at any time, since the government was split in its position on the matter of involvement. Today, there are ruling classes that are not divided as to their position on Member States. Because of the way both classes spoke before the last election, it was clear to everyone who then chose the position of these councils. [[The president calls.]] They were greatly elected. [[The president calls.]] They must be able to take advantage of the rights of the last government. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u50	A respectable president. The present - day members of the government have been very angry with the European Union. In 2009, the forward category, one of two classes in Icelandic politics, wanted to apply for involvement in the European Union. He wanted to. After the election in 2009, a greater part of the House of forwarders turned against their own proposal. On the other hand, three were involved in applying for membership on the basis of one of the approved forwarding parties, which was very good and based on long - term work. Then, prior to the election in 2013, the advance party implied that this matter would be chosen, regarding the continuation of the discussions, in a contract of government that would be interrupted, but now he wants to break up. It is very difficult to find out what the real European policy of these categories is and how they want to handle this matter. In 2008, the president of the Independence Party wrote a counterargument that we should apply for involvement in the European Union, adopt the euro. [[The president calls.]] Now he doesn't want to. [[The president calls.]] It is dangerous to let the nation's foreign policy be controlled by the whims and the ring - ringing practices of these European groups. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u51	Mr. President. Hv. A senator doesn't have to read at home, he knows this case by heart. On this discussion, it seems that not everyone is completely at home in the basics of the matter. When countries apply for membership in the European Union, they submit applications. Then it provides a letter explaining the circumstances and the environment of the application, just as we did. Now I don't remember if it was in 60 or 70. The original words were 84, though, I remember. It carefully reviews all the things that the state intends to achieve and set as a goal in each one, as well as some cultural reasons for such applications. Smaller. A senator's pretty good. He recalls that there were 2009 groups that wanted to apply, including the forward group. In order to refresh his memory and that of others present, it is also appropriate to recall that this was proposed in June 2009 by members of the Foreign Party and the Independence Party. The pilot was, if I remember correctly, the best. The current prime minister and the proposal was to initiate the preparation of the Member State's application. In other words, all groups wanted to go to the European Union in some way, including the forward category, just so they would argue here. I'm gonna ask you what. Senator one question. He brings up a report from the Institute of Economics. That is exactly what he said, where it came out, from Már Stefánsson, that an application was possible, and he described exactly what it would be. That would be difficult. I always thought we didn't need it, I wanted to go another way, but he said so. That was then, when the report was published, which all went up and called together an emergency meeting to implement a suggestion for wearout. Counts 'em out. A senator may be able to do so when the report was on the table, and in a way that was very different from the highest. A minister of the State thought that it would be, if it was the reason for this crisis, to turn forward the proposal that went wrong in the community? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u52	A respectable president. I think it's a probable theory. It was quite remarkable here a year ago that ministers in the government had advertised many times as to whether Iceland should become a member of the European Union, or whether Iceland's interests were best paid there and so forth. Then came a report from the Institute of Economics, and the material discussion began, and many welcomed it, including me, at last. Let's talk about this now. The next day, a proposal from the government came to end the discussion. Let us not discuss this in a material way. Let's just break it up. For what? Yes, I think that was part of the success of the conversation. They simply went too well for the special interests of this government that does not want to enter the European Union because of its own interests. A report by the Institute of Economics revealed this. A few weeks later, the same report made by the World Health Organization. For example, I think it's a big story in the Aggressor report on agriculture matters. Great news. Then there are all kinds of good reviews. All those who were talking about adaptation contracts, they don't talk about them anymore. After all these reports, it is perfectly clear that nothing has changed in Icelandic society in these discussions. There was no adjustment that took place, one of the first things the interview committee gave a clear statement that Iceland would not change anything until an agreement had been agreed. It was booked, and it was something else; people had been saying that we all had to join the army in Europe, it is clear that we do not need to. There was a wide range of theories that the EU was a conspiracy of 28 countries that sought our resources, all set out in these reports. Of course they don't want to talk about it. Humans have never wanted to discuss the facts. Nor have men wanted to discuss that Iceland's treaties, because of its uniqueness, in the fishing business are very strong.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u53	Mr. President. You're absolutely right by what you're doing. Senator. I always felt that it would not be necessary to escape. It would be possible to follow other routes just as the European Union would in order to fit all the major interests of the countries that apply. We still had the terms tested, just for the prince's sake, in the contracts we completed. There is one hard thing without, of course, in small matters: but the prince's hand is set, that can be done. I believe, however, that it does not need to be done, especially in the fishing business, since there are other ways to do so. Well, that's another story. One of the most remarkable of the report. A senator refers to the very point where the process was being reviewed, the author Ágúst Þór Árnason, who composed the application process, said that one of the statements was that in conversation with officials in Brussels, there would have been nothing insurmountable in the agricultural business. [[The president calls.]] It was part of the big talk. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u54	Mr. President. It is the most incredible chapter of agriculture in the Economic Institute report. It plainly states that nothing is to be taken away from Iceland's ability to obtain everything they want in agriculture. If you need a talismant, you can find other ways to make up for the loss of your life, i.e. if we were to want it, which is a different question. In the fishing business - you're right. A senator says, there are a lot of ways to do so. You are a little tense about talking about the fact that the European Union doesn't want any other authority. Of course, the European Union does. The European Union wants the regulations and contracts to be uniform. That's the European Union's contract. We do not negotiate with the European Union on the basis of their contract goals. We go on the basis of our contract goals. We say in return, and we've always said in the fishing business: We're the only island in the North Atlantic that builds its interests so much on the seaside. [[The president calls.]] We need special solutions. That's what we said. Special solutions, other than advising. So we also said: There is room for interpretation within the European Union's regulations and that there are special ways to find them. [[The president calls.]] Special solution was what we stressed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u55	V.E.G. President. As a result of the exchange that took place earlier, it is only possible to mention that in the Committee of State Affairs, a greater part of the European Commission of the summer of 2009, the question was considered whether conditions should be set, i.e. whether a discussion should be made with clear criteria. It was reported that the fall had been since then, but it was suggested that the National Committee of State's Committees included guidelines that should be maintained in the discussion at that time. It identifies various factors, and because humans have been dealing with seawater resources in particular, it is said that custody of the sea resources will be maintained. It is said that Icelanders will continue to have negotiations with the management of stock-based fishers and should have direct access to such negotiations and, thirdly, that there will be no room for foreign exile to invest here so that the consumption of the resource and the produce will actually move abroad. These are three of the conditions presented in this committee party, and some have felt that it was a part of a lack of discussions about the seabeds during the most ideal period of conversation, i.e. The situation was coastal in the spring of 2011 because the European Union did not want to submit a review report and wondered whether to set open conditions that made it impossible for the Icelanders to provide negotiations. And as we have done here in conversation, there was no movement in that language for the remainder of that terms. I wonder what. þm. Guðmundur Steingfímsson believes that these are the conditions we are expected to stick to will be arranged again. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u56	A respectable president. It was very successful that the application procedure was carried out, with a very careful report by the State Department, the majority opinion. It carefully reviews the contract goals that Iceland wants to achieve. I don't want to use the expression "supply" in itself. I just want to continue the discussion on the exact ground they were rejecting. I think it was really good. In terms of the seabed situation, it is simple to say that it was not discussed with the European Union during the last term. Of course you know why. A member of Parliament that although the chapter was not opened and it was not closed, discussions took place throughout the last term with representatives of the European Union, representatives of the nations, and introductions in the cause of the Icelands took place throughout the last term. It is the evaluation of people, and it is in the report of the World Health Organization that the conversation has gone very well and that there was an increasing understanding that because of Iceland's special status, due to the obvious speciality of being the only island in the North Atlantic that would become a member of the European Union and with such a huge wealth of ocean trade, it would have to be replaced by a solution. But there's no solution, and it wouldn't -- now I'm going to assume we're going to continue these talks, and we don't have a reason for it, they're doing well - the only way to achieve the goals of the Icelanders in the fishing road. There may also be room for interpreters within the EU's founding covenant. It is a law for distant islands, such as Canary and Azores, who can apply to us and also reside in the regular and law of the European Union itself, as it is today, a wide range of space, as is the rule of relative stability. [[The president calls.]] There are many ways to test their efforts to see if they would not get an adequate solution in the fishing field. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u57	V.E.G. President. I'm sorry about your enthusiasm. Hv. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson refers to various avenues. But I wondered, " Count who? ' A senator that the main conditions to read are the opinion of a greater part of the State Department on the custody of the fish markets, the custody of the stock agreements, and the evaporation of foreign investments in Icelandic seas as conditions to continue or to be taken back or something of the same type? I ask because there have been a number of statements that led to the discussion during the past period that these were conditions that might have been violated by men in the discourses, including instructions given by the then president of the left movement ◯ green offer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u58	A respectable president. I reviewed it earlier in my reply that I want to stay under the conditions set, the contract goals set. I believe that the Member State's application, e.g. For investments in fishing, foreign investments in fishing. There we Icelanders have said, and I hope to what. A senator agrees with me on this. It is a very important aspect of Iceland's language that we say, "Seavart Road here isn't official. " He's rich in our competitive European countries. It is unfair that a rich fishing road is allowed to invest in a fishing road in Iceland that is not state - strengthd. There is evidence that we have voiced the European Union and will let it be heard if we continue our discussion. I think that's a pretty strong argument. So I say, "Yes, we stick to the conditions." But what are we discussing now? Hv. Ármannsson He does not even want to continue his discussion. He doesn't want to understand this. He doesn't want the contract. [[The president calls.]] Is it because he's so pessimistic about this condition or what? [[The president calls.]] Why not get the contract and decide? [[The president calls.]] What's so complicated?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u59	President. It is a pleasure to have a proposal for the resolution of national law on the continuation of discussions about Iceland's involvement in the European Union. It's particularly nice that four classes are at that conclusion, but it would have been really nice if they had been six, the same categories as I shared in voting with a very comparable proposal during the last term. As important as I feel that we're going on this trip, it's a very strange thing that our national pay has not yet come up on the platform at my side, I think it's a very strange thing. I don't understand why it is a fear of calling out for respect from the people. One argument that has come to light, and I understand the correct argument, in relation to the precise proposal to be reasoned, which has been submitted quite often with different reports here at councils during the past few years, is that it is not customary in other countries that have applied for participation in national regulations to whether or not to take part in business negotiations. The national agreement has generally been binding on whether or not to enter the European Union. I think, because we're such a nation, it would be very good for us to go on the specific and specific path in which the people themselves decide if they want to go on that road, for otherwise they will be matters that will get in our way instead of turning about the way we are going or not going. The reason for the government's opposition to the way of allowing the nation to decide whether to continue or not, which would, of course, give any government under the control of a very clear command on what to do. If a government does not trust to enforce national will, it is only that government that is to be replaced. I've been in the fun position of always being in my part and I'd like to review for those senators who may not have been here during the last term to remind them that it was a pressured national agreement on the famous Icesave case, a national agreement that was, in its nature, different because it was brought upon them the initiative of the president of Iceland, not the president of the council, and hence the commitment of this national agreement was binding. The government that had to comply with that national payment decided instead that they would not respect their national will, and, as a result, likely have to resign, to respect what the people called for in that national law, and the case was worked in a very special way at the General Assembly. It was a very good, cross - political work that took place at the Council in order to ensure that the contract would not be dangerous to the people. I felt that it was an enormous privilege for a new senator to participate in such a work, where the council was actually forced to work together. Unfortunately, it is far too rare. Therefore, I think it would be extremely good for us senators, at any rate, all members of Congress at some point, from where they are located, in smaller sections or more, to be attached to calling upon the opinion of the people. Therefore, I think it would be very good for us to call upon the people's opinion, and if it were to allow the nation to continue the meeting, we would be put in the position of carrying out the will that must be our role at the Council, to enforce what the people call. Therefore, I have been a great sponsor to the direct democracy and to the public's increased access to decision-making in terms of his interests. I don't think there would be anything as good for us as being regularly given clear guidance on what we should work together for the national interests of the nation. If the people feel that they have to bring this matter to its conclusion so that the final conclusion of the negotiation can be determined, then we need to do so. I was sitting in most of the meetings that were covering these national regulations because I was serving on the Foreign Affairs Committee and the joint committee of the European Parliament and the European Parliament on the progress of the Member States. The reason that the basis for this conclusion and the treatment at the time was so good was that we received both those in favor of the matter and those who do not approve of it in order to produce the best possible methodology on how we can achieve good contracts. Often, if you don't want something, you can achieve a tremendous deal because when you do, the person who wants to negotiate with you is even more willing to give up in the negotiations, which must be for the good of the nation. Suppose that the nation does not want to go on, the rest of them in favor of the party talk have to do what they want. I find it very important that no matter what happens in our national law on the continuation of conversation, if we have good luck to make it a reality, which I find unlikely, because I don't think it's likely that the number of members in the present section of government that will be helping me with this, and it will greatly distract me. I don't understand how a matter can be presented at one assembly and fought for its reality, and then during the next term when men are in another position, they don't follow it, they don't work for it at the council. It's hypocritical to me, if I may say such a gross thing here in a pita. Then let's not forget that we have a living process that is organic when it comes to the topic discussion, the situation in Iceland, and the situation in Europe, as well as the situation with the EEA contract. We are in a position to be in trouble with that agreement, and in some respects we produce all kinds of laws and regulations that would not directly fall under an economic agreement, in my opinion, but far more extensive laws. There are many of them very good, but many of them are very strange and in some kind of European Brussels language that I don't think anyone understands. I feel that if we're going to continue to enjoy being in the European Economic Area, we need to put forth extra effort to ensure that the work in preparing these types is nice and that this is properly translated. We are to have good and powerful translation units and lobsters in Brussels because when our voice is heard, it is extremely narrow and weak, and we have little effect today. I'd like to challenge all the senators who took part in making and trying to pay the last term to do what I do and support the case, whoever's in charge. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u60	A respectable president. Thank you. To a large extent, a senator for an interesting talk about outright democracy. I think that's where we're at. A senator agreed that governmental democracy is a very good addition to the Congress we have today, and it should even be a much greater form than it is now. I would have wanted to ask you why. A senator would not agree that it is important for us to have a general rule of democracy, that we do not choose a single case of randomness or some matter that we consider important at the moment, to direct it to democracy, and not to another matter. I think there's supposed to be a problem without exception, and I'm asking why. A senator whether they agree that the nation should be able to refer individual Parliaments to national pay, for example, that 10% of voters could say, "We want to make a decision on this matter. " And if that's the binding, that's the final decision. I find it a problem with the present system - where the smaller part of the body of Congress can request an counselling of national law, an enormously expensive way of finding out what the voter's thinking is - that members of Congress are not bound to the conclusion. They are bound, by the constitution, to their own convictions. A recent survey at MMR asks: Do you want Iceland to have the position of the applicant? It turns out that there is a slight difference between who are opposed and who are not. What guidance does this involve? What if it came out of a national law, how would it come about? A senator votes?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u61	Thank you for your excellent questions. Let us remember that in this particular case it was no less than 53,555 who signed a challenge that would be added to the National Convention on Member States. I think it's a very clear guide. This signature list was on for 63 days, and I understand that there are about 22% of the people who call for us to take this journey. Of course, it is very sad for a pack to go. During the last assembly, a senator and the Independence Party held out that a national decree for a new constitution was ignored, and it was a terrible thing. If it hadn't, we'd have been here with very clear guidelines. It takes quite a lot, and I know it very well, to get so many to sign a challenge to do something here at the Council, 22% is quite a bit much. And our president has made a firm decision on when there is a gap between Congress and a nation so that, for example, he has to reject the law from the Council. It is considerably smaller than this 22% who has challenged us to start with national pay. Although a national agreement is not binding, if more is available, short or great, I feel that we should comply with the conclusion. We can't change the rules in the middle of the show, as was the last session on national law on a new constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u62	A respectable president. I hear what you're saying. A senator agrees with me that direct democracy is important and is a good principle. But just so I'm only going to the local government, Pirantars are in the countryside with a bright future, a Convergence and a left green. There have been 70 thousand challenges to stay where the airport is. I have not been aware that a member of Pirata's representative signed a case according to the will of those who have signed it, or paid it in national terms, though no doubt there was reason to do so. But if I'm wrong, correct me. What I'm saying is that it's so important that we have general democracy rules, that we have strict general rules so that the nation can have access to matters the way it is in Switzerland. I think it has been especially successful in Switzerland to find a balance between them; I think it only takes 2% of voters to set a case on national terms and then it's binding. One percent is enough to start a case at the council. This would all be good, I think, here in Iceland. We can talk about the percentages needed, but I think we need to live with this system in all cases, not from one language that is less acceptable and that we're constantly getting it together. In Switzerland, members of Parliaments, a minority of members, have discussed the possibility of enforcing a case in national terms, but it has been specifically said to do so because it leads to public difficulties.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u63	President. I'm not gonna get involved in this discussion with the local government, but if 70 thousand of the signatures are wanted, that's a national bill for where the airport should be, I'd probably like to announce it. I'm not so afraid of the people's will. The country doesn't always agree with me. You just have to live with it in a democracy sometimes having to do what you don't necessarily approve. When you're a child, you learn that you can't always do everything you want. What is the main point, and what we need to learn, both here and elsewhere, is to be able to talk. We need to learn how to work together. I remember how shocked I was when I came into this congregation after the collapse, when I thought we were going to build up New Iceland together, thinking that we were going to go into it together, all the senators, whether we were right, left, up or down or down or down or what, that we weren't going to argue about how the ambulances came to the scene of an accident were going to mean it, we were the only ones to work together. But somehow, both in this workplace and in the community have developed a tradition of conflicting conflict. Here we may share in working to get a conclusion on this matter. I think it would benefit everyone.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u64	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I wonder, now I've sensed why. A senator that at least she has doubts, if she doesn't object to the fact that Iceland becomes a member of the European Union, at least I have identified her doubts in that direction and I don't want to present her with it. At the same time, I realize that it is very strongly accompanied by the proposal under discussion, i.e. that there will be a national bill on whether or not to continue our discussion. I wonder what. A senator can tell me what it will suggest in that regard, i.e. Whether it will take that position, it will be used for national pay, to encourage voters to answer the question with a yes or no, whether it is its - what should we say - political policy to continue their discussion on the basis of their last term.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u65	President. I want us to continue the meeting. In my last term, I would have wanted us to have paid national fees to do that before we went on our business talks. But we're in this place right now. I don't see anything wrong with us continuing our business affairs. I think it's kind of necessary for us to decide whether we're still member of the country or not. I was in contact with a French journalist yesterday, and it is the understanding of many in Europe that we are no longer member of a member of the Union, and I find this very sad because I cannot explain whether we are member of the Member States or not. I don't think that's the kind of ringland thing that's really bad for us, really bad. I would really like to continue our meeting attendance. I've never dealt with myself if I want to be in the European Union or not. I can't deal with it until I have the necessary information to make informed decisions, based on facts, not speculations. It is not good in life or in the management board to base policy on speculation. We don't have the final result, and we don't get it until it's complete and we see the final outcome, and it's going to be a binding national fee. I don't understand what people are afraid of continuing this process in that way, because it's both democratic and more of the people who don't want to join the European Union. I don't understand why you can't finish this process. I think it would be very good for us as a nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u66	V.E.G. President. I think people are making a bit of a difference between what it is to be in the European Union. The fact is, what is involved in the European Union is quite clear. The European Union is not afraid to explain this to those who are applying for membership in the European Union as it is. The European Union's regulations are very clear, so there is nothing very complex about this. This is not so with Memberal negotiations that the European Union is involved in agreements between two equally established parties. One of the party is applying for involvement in the other. So I don't think that people are to overdo it - what should we say -- a veil that is resting over what is involved in the European Union. However, regarding the answer, why? A senator on my question earlier would do well to get it up until then. A senator believes we should continue our discussion. I might ask you a detailed question, Count it. The senator that these talks are to be conducted on the basis of the proposed period of the last term or the beginning of the term. A senator's opinion that circumstances or conditions have changed in some way? Counts 'em out. For example, a member of the Parliament that the criteria set out in the opinion of the greater part of the State Committee during the last term are we to maintain our discussion, if they continue?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u67	President. It hasn't changed, so we just keep moving. It hasn't changed. Sent was a narrative that technically saw, considering what I hear here at home, has no meaning, but some abroad seem to think that such e - mails are of some greater significance than it has at home. It's kind of a weird thing. I think we'll just move on if the people say they want to move on, we'll move on. I was on the State Department when all this matter was over, and I felt that I was generally at peace with each body of members on the basis of what it was done. So I don't see any reason to change something when we're on the move. Besides, I'd like to mention because I find it so interesting and often funny that I think some senators somehow think they're a choice and see how things are going to happen. It's not our job. This may have been the case, and it is part of advice from various sources in Greece in Delphi's day. But I must also say that I find it extremely important, so I say again, that we are more diligent in calling out for the people's will, especially when so much more of it calls for us to react. Then, in the beginning, these discussions suggest the conclusion, I would like to challenge all the senators who have provided virtually identical conclusions with a slightly different report to support and help us settle the matter at this assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u68	Madam President. This has been an informative debate today, and I think it is time for the Icelandic people to decide whether or not they want to continue their business affairs. I also believe that this debate in the history of the council will be considered quite historical. This is because this is a proposal made by the directors of all the anti - government parties to propose a national proposal on a specific date. I think, Madam President, this will give the tone for the next election. I believe that in some respects the government has gone to the skin. I firmly believe that there is a time when the people are in their minds fixing up to themselves that they do not want it to continue. In part, it's because of the violence and harshness I believe to be the highest. A government has shown on European matters. I also believe that once the history of Europe is written, this whole winter will be very important. This is why, and it is part of my view that it is successful to discuss this proposal now and accept it and go to such national regulations, that in the winter it made quite clear that the government decided not to implement the plans it indicated in the past and in the highest. The prime minister confirmed by his declaration earlier in the winter on the end of the discussion. How important that is! V.E.G. The government did not go beyond sending a letter that has been reported to be of no importance. The European Commission, however, has the opinion that the application is formal and that there may be some difficulty. Therefore, members of Congress are given the advantage that will probably satisfy the greatest rages they have in the European Union, that Iceland will not be called an application state, is of no consequence. This has nothing but to say that Iceland is not invited to a meeting that it does not attend, and there is virtually nothing else that matters. That is why I believe that in the leading of the next election, things may be about much more than they are at the highest level. The government thinks the election should be about the most. I believe that the next election will be about two big things, that the nation will get a vote on whether they want to continue the discussion and a new and improved constitution on the basis of the work that was done in the past government. I therefore believe that this series of events occurred in a letter at the highest level. Secretary of state. It's not because I care about the issue that I want on this day to move the highest. Minister of state, thank you for being the driving force that started that development rapidly. It is interesting when you consider the history of the European Union that perhaps you may be able to kill down, since the Union at its time took a stand on the matter as a sort of chapter separation. Until then, the matter had been in a more faint discussion, but the Conspiracy went to a greater authority on the matter than in any other matter, and rather than any political party, one or the other. [[Up front.]] She had a full - scale bill on the matter, which led to a very clear conclusion. 85% of the party wanted to make this matter their priority. When you consider the matter, it becomes evident that after this event, there is a significant discussion about participation, application, etc. This may be one of the most enjoyable events of your visit to the story since the year 2000. They ask the same question twice a year. Shortly after the Conspiracy made the important decision to promote itself to the European Union for the first time, a survey of the people's interest in applying for membership began to be made. During 2005, studies showed that a greater proportion of the population wanted to enter the European Union. In 2007 it happened that for the first time, a single political party was identified in the majority of adopted euro. There's gonna be a second. When I recall that the group was the left movement, I'm sure it was a small surprise to the council. This was first shown in the postmortem jumps of the greater proportion for recording euro. After the collapse with all its much 2008, it had occurred in the leading tide that in repeated surveys, the majority of the people showed the will to apply for membership, to join the European Union, and to adopt the euro. This was the situation in the collapse, and this trend continued. I remember most of the stuff in surveys more than 80%. True, it was a survey by the Society of Industrialism, but it was when the spoils went all the way through society in their time. [[Up front.]] It was in the environment that the forwarding party agreed at its party council to suggest an application for involvement in the European Union. It was in an environment where the council of its time made a decision of 33 votes against 28, two, with the backing of all members of the Parliament. It's very important that this is the case. Right away. paritaprevir Hauksdóttir Hauksdotttir of his day proposed a adjustment in an attempt to halt the parting process. It was simply a matter of increasing the proportion here at the council. There was a difference between ten people. Thus, in spite of all the appeals, it developed to individual council members during the last term and in spite of the hardships that were certainly there. The application was submitted on the basis of a very carefully developed opinion. Foreign Affairs. There was a greater part of it that cut out very accurately which way we wanted to apply for membership. Hv. paritaprevir A Birgir - old Ármannsson who knows these people best said that before everyone knew and could walk in the way of a deal that would appear, but he still had given himself an answer to whether a person could take an answer earlier today when he himself traced two things that are controversial and the most difficult things to deal with investments. We don't know about that unless negotiations are put to the test. With the two most important reports, and I believe that it has led to chapters, the report of the Economic Institutes and the report of the International Ministry for the University of Iceland, but I maintain a report by the Institute of Economics, because it was always a part of the highest order. Secretary of State, is absolutely clear on all that is going to happen. The senators are saying, e.g. Like a snooze. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson, who still insists that there is no exception, is wrong. Just so they're reminded of what's happened. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir was in the contracts that had been completed by a prince's cause for fighting for one small entourage. In case of a moment. Senators have not read at home, they should do so before discussing this subject. It wasn't a great idea, but it's there. But what matters is that no state has applied on the basis of such rich marine resources that Iceland has. Never has any country of equal proportion within the European fishing field applied for involvement. There is something else that matters. Iceland has a completely different position than that, e.g. Norway. It is so true that because of this, the president of the Foreign Affairs Commission has crossed a noisy field, what becomes the most difficult is, of course, the more difficult, the more difficult it is. I mean, no state has applied for what is in Iceland, first of all, about the size of the marine export sector in the economy, but secondly, which does not have a common economic legal record with the European Union. There's the big difference between Iceland and Norway. The common fishing policy is based on the common use of common institutions within common jurisdiction. There are no circumstances where Iceland is. That's why we're setting sail, and that's why we have to test the outcome agreements. Therefore, when the vast majority of the nation's research surveys over the willingness to continue the discussion, they do not want to give themselves in advance until it is in the hands of the bargain board, they are able to solve the matter in a way that would fall into Iceland's interests. That's why there's more to it than that. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Sigurjónjarsson made a subject in his second very clever speech earlier today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u69	A respectable president. You're half-hearted to sit here in a councilroom and listen to what you're saying. paritaprevir Össur's Osse, son of Skarphéðinsson, who led the nation's foreign affairs during the last term. Here, he again presents facts that are half true. It is quite remarkable to hear the senator say that there is an exception in the European Union. I remind the senator of a video available on the Internet where Stefan Füle actually severes the senator at his time when he was going to use it for a home bridge that could be replaced, the manager would correct it quickly and well. I think that's what we're talking about. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson should look at this video. I would like to ask the senator if he would not wish to comment on what happened in March 2011 when a report on the sea bus could not be opened and the application was dead even though it was made available on land. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u70	Madam President. It is a misunderstanding or part of a misinformation when people have been saying that it was because of the objectives of Iceland's opinion of the committee that I mentioned earlier, that the European Union was afraid to submit its review of the matter. It's totally clear what was going on there. We were then in a dispute with the European Union about macroil, and the man who was now out of position for Front National, France, was on the lead with others in the European Parliament's seabed committee to make it impossible for Iceland's negotiations to be resolved. It was naturally shameful and shameful, but thus the mackerel countries tried to let their knees follow us. We never agreed to give up on it. It is accurate that the chapter related to macroil was at least a clue to set some kind of opening point. [[The president calls.]] That would never have been the case. That would probably have resulted in a loss of conversation, and that was why friends of Iceland were sitting on that report. [[The president calls.]] It never came out.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u71	A respectable president. This is a remarkable information that is presented in this regard. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson is stating that this route is not yet possible because the macroil has not been negotiated. An Annex I report published by the Economic Institutes made it clear that neither the Iceland nor the European Union relied on them to enter the conditions and criteria for this application on the seabed section. Then the Icelanders would have had to give up their way of fishing and, in addition, allow the investments of foreign workers on the fishing grounds. This knows why. A senator who was a minister of foreign affairs during the last term. He was still afraid to tell the truth. It's all very clear. I'd like to encourage him to give up trying to dust people's eyes on this case, because now we've had this body on the train, which is Europe's application, since March 2011, and it's time we got out of that misery. [[The president calls.]] Happily, the government has done so, for it is very bright ahead of the Icelandic economy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u72	Madam President. I personally sat at a meeting with the European Damanaki's Sea Safari, who wanted nothing but a mackerel until Iceland's foreign minister stood up, just to make it absolutely clear. [[John Bjarnason?]] And I would also like to say, out of consideration for my former partner and friend, Jón Bjarnason, though we have disagreed, that I do not believe that his conduct caused him to delay these talks. There were other things. It was the mackerel first and foremost. But I can say that it was not to speed them up. As an exception, which was received here in a previous answer, let's just review a European Commission report under the leadership of Björn Bjarnason's son. I was sitting in it. It refers to a fourth dozen preach about agriculture. This was made clear in the report. A senator suggested that there can be an exception. It was especially discussed with the author of the Arctic. How long can that release last, since it is temporary? [[Up front.]] No. As long as the conditions exist that call it annuity. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] What does what? A senator say it's a long way? About a thousand years before Europe warms up?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u73	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for a bold talk. There's one thing I want to know. Right away. A senator contributes to the application of 16 July, handing out Fredric Reinfeldt and Carl Bildt a letter in Iceland in which the application of implicitly and without any warning of involvement in the EU, why is the letter not being made in the letter of the Member State's application? Of course, the government of Iceland at that time did not have the council's authority to act promptly on involvement in the European Union. Here's a warning application. By permission of the President, I want to read this letter, dated to Reykjavík, July 16, 2009, which is two lines: ▪ Mr. President, The survival of the European Union, the application of the Republic of Ireland for its members, in its context of the European Union. Doccept, mr. President, the assurances of our highest conservation.◯ [[The president calls.]] Where are the backups?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u74	Madam President. Where are the backups? says 'w'. Senator. The Matrix accepted its own time, including with votes from the advance, applying for involvement on the basis of certain contract objectives, which are thoroughly explained in detail in the majority of the branch offices of the Foreign Affairs Committee. So it would be clear how this aim has been carried out, and every contract goal in all the chapters submitted to a Foreign Affairs Committee outside one was the prohibition of living animals, which I later received a declaration from the European Union that it would work. These objectives were developed in two ways, one in the Committee opinion and the other in a letter that usually follows the application of each member of the Member State. As I said earlier today, I don't remember if there were 50 or 60 points, but the other thing I remember well that on the plane to the foreign ground when I took it, I finished it myself. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u75	The President would like to draw attention to the fact that the matter of Congress is Icelandic, according to Article 91. An Icelandic translation of the Holy Scriptures, referred to in a foreign text, is required by the Parliamenties of the Generals.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u76	A respectable president. I'll be happy to translate this letter. It's addressed to Fredik Reinfeldt and Carl Bildt, president of the Council of Ministers. It sounds like this in a loose translation: The Icelandic government has the honor to deliver here, in accordance with 49. in the European Union Convention, the Republic's application to become a member of the European Union. [[Foreground on: violation of constitution.]] With kindness and respect, Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, Prime Minister, Secretary of State, Össur Skarphéðinsson. There are no warnings, no references to any other documents. The European Union has in its hands and in its own unprovable application by the former government, which I believe to be a violation of the commission that then the government had in its hands by the General Assembly. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u77	Madam President. Hv. A senator believes I have violated the authority given me by the council to apply for membership on behalf of Iceland to the European Union. This was not surprising in a foreign - language committee when men sat there for months to discuss, sometimes quarrels, details, and implementations of these contract goals. And just so that it will be clearly stated then, as I previously said, I did not bring up one contract goal that was discussed on the part of Iceland and presented, probably in 16 chapters, to opposition within the foreign committee, except for the food security section. There came opposition, it was a five - year - old crack, as some of them were. Councilmen know, especially because of the prohibition on the import of living animals. Long after. A senator and others have said that the contracts ended, which, of course, are nonsense because they continued through every chapter other than the four that were resting, I went to Brüssel, among other things, and drew out a statement that the European Union would put everything into place, including the enlargement director, to keep up with it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u78	President. What a strange discussion! In case of a moment. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson believes ex- secretary of state, please. paritaprevir Össur Skarphéðinsson, has violated the Constitution and violated the Congress, the same should immediately call for a meeting on a administrative and surveillance committee to have it investigated. I wanted to ask you what. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Aphédinsson - I was a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, and we spent many hours reviewing the Convention - it may not have been based on contracts for the members of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u79	No, I don't know about that. For example, I reviewed that in the most difficult chapters and the most complex and complex of fish - dignitaries, of course, there were within the deck of the agreement groups acquiesces from among those who had a way out. However, they took the wise decision to participate in this aspect of the meeting because, as they said, even if we may be opposed, there is no better way to negotiate Iceland's interests than we do because we know them. It just so happens. A senator is an emissary of the Foreign Affairs Committee, and that the wish of the State Department at this council was sent to the Commission almost complete plans for our contract goals, which were tore into this group and finished there without any rules to which I know best. It can determine whether there is a complete agreement between the opinion and the opinion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u80	President. I appreciate the answers. It'll be great to look into what the Senator pointed out to me. I wanted to ask the senator, because he now has a tremendous political and Congress experience, whether he thinks there is any possibility that we can encourage those members of the council who had a national fee during the last term in order to be involved in this case, whether the senator feels that there is any possibility that the council might listen in such a clear voice from the community to be able to handle this case in a national pay. What does the senator think is needed to encourage our fellow members to work together on this matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u81	Madam President. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator only needs to wield his persuasive powers on one man, the Chairman of the Independence Party. He has been shocked that he had failed to keep his word. I didn't do that in my speech. But I could not, nor, as I shall recall here, that the head of the Independence Party has in the last two weeks before the Passover twice went out of his way to say, either in interviews, as he did at St. The leader of the Independence Party recognizes the fact that if he betrays his promise, his party will probably split, which will prove that this government does not have a chance to make more of the next election. I think it's coming to him, so one is coming for a long time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u82	V.E.G. President. Just so it's clear. A member of Parliament that the reason for no further discussion on the fishing business after March 2011 was merely the mackerel deli? Counts 'em out. A senator that the opening conditions of the European Union, which were certainly in the discussion, were merely turned to mackerel? Or thinks so. A senator that may have played in, possibly - and I may say - the difference between the European Union's fixed design in the marine field and the National Convention of Iceland, which can be read from the opinion of the greater part of the State Committee?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u83	Madam President. It is quite certain that the starting point was discovered by the then seafaring minister, who did not want to work on certain matters in the way that we had once worked with the European Union and his own emissary, i.e. The head of the Ministry and the chairman of a panel of agricultural groups, had personally moved to a foreign snout following a resolution in the government, to make it absolutely clear. So I just jump over to the last question, I think that the difference between the regulations and our deal goals is some, and there's a creative way to fix it. But in view of the way the Norwegians did their difficult parts, I think it can be done. But I've always said one thing and kept it up: I believe the most difficult thing in this and the final wrestling would have been of mutual right to investments. That's what I've always said.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u84	V.E.G. President. If we review the main elements on the seabed that it was clear that there could be problems with those outside the investments, there is a negotiation of the stock market, a contract at a international level that the European Union has principles on its own custody, not on its individual Member States, and on the other hand, a control of the fishing law, and interesting if so. A senator believes that these factors were not a problem. For example, in this regard, I wondered if it would have been. A senator was content with Iceland or is likely to have the European Union at any time agreeing to dissuade from its contract at the hands of the European Union on such matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u85	Madam President. In the past, it has been noted that in the reports submitted by the Commission of Foreign Affairs, some of the substances considered to be extremely difficult to cover, such as agriculture, the general public report did not prove to be the source of what was previously thought to be previously considered. The most difficult and difficult part to climb, then, is the fishing business, and there are a few issues. I told them earlier that I thought the most difficult was probably for Icelanders to achieve an acceptable solution to the right to mutual investments, most difficult, not impossible. [[Up front.]] Hv. A senator then asks if any of these matters are negotiated. Well, I don't think he can get me to be a member of the state of state or the highest. Minister of foreign affairs in this matter or any other great matter of interest to accept that some of the contract goals are negotiated.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u86	A respectable president. This discussion is often asked: Who should handle discussions with the European Union, in case of a decision made to the national law presented here? The country wanted to continue talking to the European Union. The leader of the Independence Party has spoken of political inconsistencies in this context and has described it as something that was completely unacceptable or impossible to expect from politicians that they would work in this way against their own convictions. I can see that when a decision is made in the U.S. National Bank, it is to be followed by a government. There is, of course, a very good example of how humans were working against the so - called impossibles during the last term when the left movement of a green supply was involved, across its policies outside the European Union, applying for membership despite the opposite direction of the category, because applying for membership is not being carried on in the European Union. On the contrary, the possibility of examining with all the best available information what is available is what Iceland would do and what it would look like inside the European Union. It has always occurred in this process that the final words were in the nation, that Iceland did not work in the European Union without the request of the nation first. To me, the thing here is the subject of an attempt to address the issues that have remained in Icelandic discussion for far too long. And there are many other issues that hang on to this matter. We've just been talking about the top two primes. Another thing is to try to balance the differences between rent - house workers and those who enjoy interest on their own housing. Why is that? Why are people being paid for interest? Is it not because humans are in a wonderful crisis with the currency? Is it not because it is so risky to lend interest in Icelandic dollars, that interest is higher than that in every country we compare with? The two issues involved are an image of how we have a currency that doesn't work out, which costs us a lot of financial gain, and makes life so difficult for us as it would have to be. Hv. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson, who has participated in discussions today, recently introduced a report on a new financial system. True, in spite of excellent ideas, it may not have received a wonderful welcome, but it is, of course, a picture of the problem I'm talking about and is among the things that make me feel that I should try to cope with this possibility. Actually, I've made up my mind about that, I think we should join the European Union. I think we're going to get such a deal that we can get rid of it. Of course, one has to see it in its final form, but I rather agree, as the situation is today, that we are to enter the European Union. There are many arguments that I would believe. I believe we share culture with other European countries, should be among them. I find it beneficial to be able to move goods and money from country to country without barriers, to be eliminated from customs, and to do so. Then I think the currency business would be very successful if we could pick up Euro. I also believe that there is an enormous democracies when it comes to paying off bills, initiatives and orders here at the General Assembly, which have been prepared in the European Union in Brussels, without the arrival of Icelandic senators. I kind of think it's the big part of this. I'm bored to see how much of the situation goes through here without being changed or not being able to make proper changes in them or write them out of Iceland's interests. It is often stated when I say this, that it is not, of course, that Icelanders or Icelandic senators cannot find out, but it is not. There are so many cases going through here that it is completely unacceptable to be so involved in the European Union. I don't think it's the government's business to take in the originals, directives, regulations that are prepared elsewhere but here or not with the arrival of Icelandic senators. What we're doing with the suggestion given here is an attempt to get all the information on the table, to find out if there are any exceptions or special solutions. This is among the constant debates here, whether or not it has been concluded that an exception is allowed. In fact, it is the conclusion of a report by the Institute of Economics that last year was published that such solutions can be obtained. All right. If we simply accept the word of the senators of the forward party, then what? paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir. paritaprevir The son of Frosti, the son of Sigurjónsson, and say it is true, there is nothing to fear, is there? Of course, if there are no special solutions, the people must cancel the agreement. If the agreement that comes out of the discussion with the European Union is completely unacceptable to the nation, what concerns are there? Councilmen of the Foreign Party and members of the Independence Party who want to keep people from completing these talks? There is, then, any chance that the nation would accept entry into the European Union on either basis or what? Of course, that fact is not being watched. It is primarily a matter of trying to prevent a decision from being made on this subject because, while not making a decision, we are not in the European Union. This has been the case with the European Union since I began to observe politics nearly 30 years ago. For a long time, the Independence Party said that applying for involvement in the European Union is not on the agenda, there is no reason to discuss this. So once the case has been arranged, you will try hard to avoid making a decision in the matter. I think it's simply the time for the Icelanders to decide which side they're going to die on. If it is the country's conclusion that our interests are better off outside the European Union, let us get that conclusion, then let us conclude this matter, so that we can focus on and understand what other possibilities are available, how we can guarantee Icelands comparable to the nations we compare with. You see, as with the situation today, we cannot. We are not in position to do so, and we have not been in a position to do so for a long time. Of course, this is a serious matter when a person tries to avoid making decisions that can solve such problems for a long time. There's something we shouldn't accept. That's why I welcome the proposal presented here and will support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u87	Madam President. A key point regarding this synonym is that everyone has the right to make such a decision. I think everybody agrees with that basic idea deep down inside, even though they may say, "No, I want to decide, now I'm in charge, and I'm in charge, and I'm in charge of this. We're supposed to be able to do what we want to do. Although it is a business discussion, I stress that the talks are more than participation, they are also a process of adaptation. This was made clear at a meeting that Piratar and I had before the last election when we were studying this matter with Iceland's main contract with the European Union. Iceland's legislation is being legalized, not just to EU legislation, but to the EU legislation. If we were to consider the record, we should initially have a national bill on whether we were going to apply. We should have done so because it is the decision to conform the entire national law to the European Union's law, not just the EEA Convention. We should have started asking the people before we left. This is a costly process that translates into the European Union's legislation. It wasn't done. Let's review what happened before the last election and what they promised. The governments then put the case on ice, but the members of today's government, an independent party, and an forward group both had promises in this subject. The promise of the Independence Party in a formal campaign brochure for the last election was as follows, by President's permission: The suicide category considers Iceland's interests to be better off outside the European Union than in the United States - the nation makes a decision to be involved in national negotiations with the EU during the vote period. They're calling for a national bill during the election season. That's what they're talking about this fall. It might be possible to do so at some other time, but because of the highest, the matter has come a little under pressure. The national minister of the State of Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson is trying to set things up in this way by writing to the European Union to pressure the European Union to cancel this agreement. It's a trick, a special diplomacy, as I think it was the word used by the president of the council when the matter was discussed here before Easter. It's a bit of pressure if it's not just to end these terms. As a matter of fact, the campaign for an independent party and a forwarding party should be built - let's see what the move group promised. His contract agreement for the elections says that only with the exception of national regulations, no further will be held in the EU Member States. The candidates are not saying that they are in need of national pay, but they are saying that it should go no further than national pay. I mean, I mean, people can put their language into words, but I can't say they're the best. The minister of foreign affairs is the best man in the vocabulary because in this phrase he tried to use to force the European Union to cancel the agreement, he failed to succeed. The European Union says: No, you are still in a contract process. However, this wording can be used in terms of words. A dresser reading this view considers it to be a national agreement. But, yes, we might be able to slip by and say, "No, no, we didn't promise a national law -- that is correct - we can totally break up business without national pay. You can go there, but obviously it's not what voters were looking for when they saw this. It is now known how the forwarding board operates on the general campaign plans. The Independence Party clearly promised that the nation would take the decision to agree with the EU in national terms during the election period, as it says in its campaign. The proposal now and we are discussing calls for - can anyone help me remember when it is? [[Up front.]] September 26, this year. Then there's always the same chorus of people who don't want national laws on big matters unless they're the ones they especially want, like the Icesave case, that it's so costly. It's gonna cost too much. I studied the cost of the processing of a bill that I made with other members of my section, okay? The members of Björt Ólafsdóttir, Magnúsdóttir Electric Rafney Magnúst Magnúst Mignar and Aisir Skarphéðinsson, said that there would be no longer any sharing of the stores of hunting rights and markets tied in a way that would no longer be available for the ensign of salmon fishing. It's a tiptool, which was interpreted as such by the 1995 or 1999 governor, I can't remember which, and has been present ever since. It says that we're fishing on it, that you're renting property, and you don't have to pay worth tax. But if we just stopped separating ourselves from this tax base, which contains 2 billion dollars, we could pay national fees every year and more. In response from the State Department to ask about the U.S. government, pay costs more than 300 million. K. and in response from the General Assembly office to the same website, asks.is, reports that in October 2012 the cost of a national bill of proposal of a board of governance, including publicity, was studied by 281 billion. K. There is no way to argue that we cannot afford to keep national laws on enormous issues involving all the people of the country and that all the people have the right to make a decision if we do not take at the same time a little bit of salmon tax. Those arguments just fall dead. Of course, we can afford a national bill. We can pay for it just by stopping leaving the salmon and trout fishing in the rivers of the country from a valuable tax. It would also make the tax much more efficient because of the highest costs. The secretary of the budget is making the destabilizing of the valuable tax. There we can achieve the government's objective on tax efficiency, achieve this money, and maintain national pay every year, so that argument is absolutely meaningless. They're saying it's just a poll, it's just a plot to advise a national agreement. That's right, there'd be a plot to advise a national agreement. We would not have to follow the conclusion. We would also be able to see if humans really do not feel that they are allowed to handle such important matters. Then perhaps that is the conviction of some men. What we face is that everyone has the right to make decisions that concern them. A decision to continue the terms of the individual's activities is a decision that concerns the entire nation. They have a right to come to them. Much of the country's population wants to make that decision. All classes promised unless there is a possible forwarding party - if he wants to make a word - that a national hearing should be handled, and here's a pact proposal for us to do exactly that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u88	Madam President. I'm glad we're finally discussing the proposal of the groups that are in part at the General Assembly on the National Order to continue Member States with the European Union. It is not a secret, Madam President, that I am the sincere European Union. I'm not going to go downhill with the feeling that Iceland is going to join the European Union and the policy of the category I am a senator is that Iceland's interests are the best city in the European Union. Of course, it's not absalut. We must want to see terms of agreements, but most of all, we need to make negotiations and fight for Iceland's interests. What is most complex and requires perspective and harshness are the causes of the ocean's delinquency. I'm just going to step in on the National Records, but first, I'd like to say why I'm sincere in Europe. I believe it is important for Icelanders to be fully involved in the 28 European Union. We are in close cooperation with those countries on the European Economic Area, and we implement this law to a large part of the EU Directive and directives without affecting what they look like when we address them at the European Union. Of course, we have a number of ways to influence people, but they are complex and difficult to deal with and demand a great deal of human life. Now it's got the highest. Secretary of State declared that it is important to increase the population of Iceland in Brussels to protect Iceland's interests there. It must be wise to wonder, if we want to be part of the four economic and national freedoms, whether it is not normal to take the step to the full. I know that the European Union is not a perfect animal. I think there's too much right men there. It has given liberalism too much to play, but in this way, most partners need to communicate and negotiate with people who do not necessarily share your outlook on life and opinions. [[Foreground on:]] However, there are also numbers of people who share the ideals for cooperation, especially in the field of environment, security and other such factors, and it can be noted that most progress in environmental and protection in this country has been due to the implementation of directives from the European Union. The European Union was founded as a peace alliance after a terrible war in Europe through history and then in the 20th century. Instead of fighting with weapons for conflict of interest, the relationship was a way to look through trades and increased communication to promote peace in the continent. The European Union has very ambitious plans and programmes for developing affairs within the continent in the field of employment, welfare, and, most important, in the area of rural development. It would be interesting for Iceland, our rural country, with very few very few and in many respects vulnerable countries that would benefit from EU regional programmes. It has sometimes been said that the United States is the same with one group of European opponents who want to downplay us and the only issue involved in the European Union. Of course, it's a complete and full of nonsense because the Conspiracy - Iceland's peers party stands for the baselines of equal thinking, liberty, equality, and brotherhood. It is not the freedom to favor friends and family members and to act as you want, but the freedom from the bondage of poverty and oppression of class, who have the power of their wealth and give the opportunity to pursue the interests of the common people. This is what the Conspiracy represents, equal to and prosperousness, and we believe that membership in the European Union is an obligatory opportunity to achieve these goals. And so, of course, Iceland is not going to sink into the sea, although we are not part of the European Union. We will continue to be an independent sovereign state - in fact, we can be very serious about the sovereignty when we side it to an alliance that we are not involved in at the same level as the European Economic Area Convention calls out. Our society will continue but I don't think it will be as good a community. I think we have the opportunity to become a better community in cooperation with other countries. And then I won't belittle what it would trade to be part of the euro currency alliance and have a currency that suits the open, small economy. There is concern that the government, which is equally conservative in the idea of being in the European Union member case, would seem to be a very profound anguish of the member case, should not have practical plans in the area of money for Iceland. Of course, we will not again have a liquid currency as we had before a crash. Although we may not be as strong as we are today, we will have some kind of head headway with the crown. KPMG the other day held a meeting regarding the routes out of the seas by uptake euro. At the labour market's reporting and working records, it was a business agency, it was Iceland's Association of Employment and Publicity, large people who actually walked out of the fact that this was the only practical way to get out of a state of affairs. The government teaches itself on projects, which now appear to be mainly a type of destruction because it does not cooperate with the job, but at a fixed meeting of these matters at KPMG, it does not belong to one member of the government, which is such an awkward case for the government that she does not want to talk about it and that she is able to put her head in the sand. But if ideas of delinquency are to be followed, then there must be practical plans for the nation's money. Madam President. It is clear that I support my heart to call on 53,555 individuals for a national fee for continuation of conversation will be answered by national law. I really support it, and I hope that this case will come back as soon as possible to a vote in the council hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u89	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A member of the Parliament before a very extensive and objective speech, but the talk was actually discussed about the European Union itself and possibly the benefits of membership. I think that's a very helpful discussion and reasoning we need. For one thing, the benefits of having a common currency were discussed. A Greek nation back then, 10 years ago, when the Greeks joined the European currency League, was likely expressed as a recipe for great happiness to have the common currency and that the currency that had contended with inflation until then would not interfere with their economy thereafter. It's been a different experience. Today, unemployment among young people in Greece has become more than 50%, and the average unemployment rate is close to 30%. Actually, since 2010 there has been a continuing recession period, very serious and deep, and the poverty and famine have become very striking. I know it's breaking down all good senators to see this happening. The problem is, when you no longer have an independent currency, there is no other way than a so-called internal gang crash, i.e. to reduce everyone's pay by means of forced operations, by government resignations, by the sale of infrastructure. They're selling the harbors to the Chinese. This is because the currency cannot be lowered. For the report of KPMG, I'd like to ask you why. A senator would have wondered if she had some doubts after seeing these things. True, it had not been over when the application was submitted in 2009, but now we have seen how this currency alliance has proved to be a problem for its members. It's just hardcore and harsher and more harsh.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u90	Madam President. I don't know if the senator was suggesting that if Iceland had been a member of the European Union during the collapse, we would have been shot like Greece. Then I'd like to point it out. One member of the crisis was the collapse of the Icelandic financial system and the collapse of the Icelandic crown. It helped us. The gangfall, in turn, helped us in our building work to some extent, but there is nothing to do with the damage caused by the currency's collapse. I think the situation in Greece is extremely serious. I believe that if there had been a representative of the European Union government that would have remembered well, such as. Kohl Kohl, the calamity of World War II, would have been more intense. Still, they were going a long way to meet the Greeks. The situation in Greece is especially due to profound and long - term corruption. So I can honestly say that I think the European Union should have been much more radical in its response to Greece. The European does not prevent the need for responsible economic management, but it enables the economy of the country, the people of the country who are investing in housing and living their lives as well as those who run businesses, to do so in an environment where there is a currency that is not a small and liquid with which there is a number of successes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u91	A respectable president. I want to thank you for that answer. Hv. A senator asks how it would have been if we had a euro when the big bank crash happened, what would have happened then. I want to answer what I think happened. I think it would have happened to me as it did in Cyprus. There was a knock, and they had a euro, and all those who had settled in the Cypriot banks began to take them away from the banks they thought were falling. There was a big financial flight from Cyprus to London, Switzerland, Germany. When the banks, which are private banks, need to be checked by the bank. The late bank cannot print euros but must borrow them from the European Bank, which soon began to demand many Kingdom responsibilities. So a wealth had to make a huge debt to allow this outlet from the banks. This was to be done only by betting the pension fund, the resources, Cyprus gas sources, and various infrastructures, otherwise they would not have received a refill of euros on a system that needed to be held so that the rich people could take their places out of the country. Finally, the assessment peaks were set and then the criteria were written down. This is what could have happened to us, too, except that we will be able to pay much more of a debt to a government fund. That's what happened to the Irish. In view of their size, their bank system, their bank systems fail, and all its consequences, they have a much more debtable state funds. When a nation is affected by economic breakdown, there are no good things that happen, worse and more long - range, and adjustment, it is much more difficult if the nation does not have its own currency. I'd like to point out that KPMG report on the way out of Europe - which is some sort of imagination about what could happen if we could get Euro tomorrow, which is naturally not available, it takes years to pick it up - that this would have happened exactly: Government funds would have had to be guaranteed and taken responsibility for all the emissions of these rich people who took their money at a fixed level of land. Who's left behind? The people of the work who have not provided for their investments but, rather, their labor. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u92	Madam President. Had the senator been at KPMG's meeting, he would have heard that no one there expected us to take up the euro tomorrow, but they pointed out that it could even take up to 10 years. About Cyprus and Iceland, and then the senator also mentions Ireland. The Irish accepted natural responsibility for every debt of the banking system on top of their own. [[Up front.]] In Iceland, it's quite a shame that it's not like a government fund went into huge debt because of the bank collapse.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u93	Less than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u94	Less than that, the senator says I'm not going to argue with him here. We suffered enormous losses, and this was because of the irresponsible building of banks, where banks'owners inflated themselves into centenarians, and their growths grew, resulting in an increase in the money - control industry, and eventually it burst into the country. The success was massive, with massive damage to the Icelandic public, which is still a life - threatening failure for all who live here and are ordinary employees. I encourage the senator to wonder why Ireland, Cyprus, and Greece have not chosen to leave the euro, since its consequences for that state are to be so terrible. On the contrary, it has been shown that the states will, by all means, continue to be in the currency union of the euro.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u95	A respectable president. I'm glad this matter has come to pass. In fact, I wasn't necessarily convinced that it should have been chosen to have a conversation, that has not been done, but since things have reached the point where they are today, I think this is the only possible way, for which all classes have spoken for national concern, there is nothing left to wait. It is easy to be wise afterward, and people have repeatedly spoken of the fact that this expedition should have been held only when they asked the people. In fact, they were asked in 2009, we can say, the vote was a class that had its policy to apply for involvement in the European Union, it was highly elected. A man has heard enough of it at the Assembly Hall, especially in the Agency, that in 2013 he was elected here and referred to it more or less in all the decisions that the Agency now makes that he was elected to do and do this. Then, in 2009, it was not the Conspiracy Kosin, to initiate business discussions with the European Union, I can ask. It was a government of another category, and the World Council agreed on this later crossing, but it was still approved at the Council and could not be minimized. I'll admit I would've wanted VG to have done better in this case. I felt that it was a little late for me to agree to a party meeting or a council meeting just before the 2013 election that the company wanted to finish their talks. It wasn't good, but it was like this. During the last assembly, the matter was called upon to be paid nationally, reflecting the democratic love of members of the Parliament. Therefore, you do not fully understand why it is all of a sudden, so now that you do not need to ask the people. It's a national will when it's convenient. Similarly, what took place during the last term is referred to, but I don't really think that has anything to do with it. We just need to look at the situation today and what will be the rest. I think it's a huge deal. I want to see the deal, I want to see what happens to the particular fishing section and the agricultural sector as well. If they are acceptable, I believe that our interests and, especially, our children are better paid in the EU in cooperation and cooperation with our major friends and neighbors. Perhaps, in particular, because we do not have much control over keeping one of the least currency in the world, although some may feel that it is going well. I don't agree with that. People here complain of high loans, of insurance, of high financial cost. We see that a company that can settle in euros does. Many companies are even fleeing the country. I don't see what the government has to offer, and I don't think it's a big deal about it, and I don't see what the future budget is. In other words, stay with the crown, try to get rid of the seas and cut off the insurance policy, that's all. I don't think it's my plan, and I think it's very important that we can record a currency that is actually a currency in business with other countries. But if people find interest and safety acceptable, they must be that way, but I'm not there. This has been introduced to fraud, in particular to the Independence Party, which reenacted to the election that the nation should have something to say on this matter. I find the discussion quite incredible, it's a phrase, and men reach quite far. It now seems that a conversation before an election was recorded, making it sound exactly what people say. We are concerned that at the World Council, we do not consider ourselves politicians to be very much. Then perhaps we should start by saying what we mean and not making promises. Even if you can say this isn't my problem, and the Independence Party has to deal with its voters if he betrays an election code, we all put down when politicians act this way. I think it's embarrassing, and I don't understand that the members of the party would accept this. But now we have the opportunity to accept this synoptic decree, allowing the nation to have something to say whether or not business events will be cut off or continued. I'd like to quote a fistula, an old fistula, actually, as a boy. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir put on her website. It says, under the permission of a president: THE country is a democracy where all opinions are allowed and therefore the people of the country should give their opinion before continuing. If the nation says yes in national law whether the adaptation process should continue in the European Union, the government will receive a clear mandate - but they will reject the adaptation process, no further energy and funding will be applied within the country. This is a democratic way of reconciliation that the government cannot reject. I can sort of, except for this adaptation process, make those words mine. We cannot, in effect, refuse to accept the synopsis and let the nation have been brought to a final end in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u96	V.E.G. President. I find it very difficult to understand a synopsis of this kind and to wonder how a head can vote for a continuation of a conversation that has already been terminated. I'm asking why. A senator cannot agree that it is so much normal - in view of the initial application for membership, which was without notice, it was only part of the Community - to the public simply to choose whether the nation will walk in the European Union as it is available. We've always been talking about seeing the contract, we've been over it a lot. There's been no negotiation long ago. There are solid principles, and we all know that there are certain basics of the European Union, men who make no deals with them. It's long known, they don't even deny it in the European Union. Is it not based on the facts of the great nature of choosing whether the nation wants to be a member of the European Union as it appears today, and its basis is based on it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u97	A respectable president. No, I don't think it's normal because I want to argue that there's something going on. Otherwise, not all of these nations would have made negotiations. It may well be. A senator knows what the deal looks like. If so, he would do well to draw it up so that he can come here when we finally finish the contract and say, "I told you. If he knows exactly what the ocean's gonna be like, then he knows my intelligence. I want to see the deal, and I won't let anything tell me there's nothing going on. What, then, have all these nations been doing, spending money and time in foolishness? Is it, then, that we can accept the last deal - wasn't it Croatiad or what nation that came in last? So, can we just accept that contract and use it if all the deals are exactly the same? I don't agree with that. I wouldn't have necessarily proposed a synopsis proposal to go to the National Court on whether to continue, but we are forced, in fact, because the government is repeatedly trying to end the matter. I accept that they are put on ice, the application is in a drawer and can be picked up later. But here's the vandalism, they're trying to end the discussion, and that's not what I'm going to accept. I don't understand why the government groups didn't see that it was the best solution in this case to simply allow the application to lie down. No one is to expect these two groups to go forth with great force in this matter, but they were all at peace with it. But no, they began to try to break up the discussion, but they did not, in fact, succeed because it was so unbelievably messy. We talked about it at the time. I'm not going to go to any more psalms. All this work is so incomprehensible. No nation has been able to get as involved in this matter as much as we have.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u98	V.E.G. President. They always talk about seeing the deal. Several countries have now joined the European Union. There was talk of Croatia, the rest and those countries. Which of those countries has made up from a fishing policy or the European Commission over these resources? Who has made up of something that is in harmony with the Roman covenant? No one's ever made a deal. Then there's always talk about them wanting to see the deal. What will we see? I think it's simply an illusion. I can understand the view that it is simply better to be in the European Union with its advantages and weaknesses. All right, let's talk about this. Hence, it is very normal for humans to choose eventually whether they want to stay in the relationship or not. But to be choosing if we should continue talking, that's incomprehensible to me. We may well choose whether a couple should remain married or get married, perhaps a couple who do not want to marry. This is a preposterous approach. It is far more reasonable and reasonable to take the discussion of the benefits and defects of the European Union and choose whether we want to go in there. And then we can try to side up as much as we can into such an entry, to take up the rule, how long it takes, how much time we need to do it, etc. I'm sure we can negotiate that. But I do not think of such a national agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u99	A respectable president. Yes, I'm impressed with the pros and cons of the European Union in this council hall. That is exactly what we were trying to do, and when government officials threw in a pact proposal to break up the discussion, we did not even have time to do so, so to speak. Besides, I don't agree that we should just choose if we want to walk in the EU and that there are no exceptions or nothing to negotiate. There are some ensignes, Arctic treats related to agriculture, and some reserves have been given to the Malttes for fishing. Do they not have an exception because of the summer houses owned by foreign citizens? Just so I pick up what I remember right now, I'm not an expert on these matters. There are many exceptions, and especially with regard to fishing soil in Iceland, where we are in a position of speciality. It has never been made up of a land that has as much value as a fishing road. Therefore, it would be most informative, even if not otherwise, to see the results. I don't see why we can't finish this negotiation, we've come a long way. I don't understand what people are afraid of in this discussion. Are the special interests so strong and rich in this country that people do everything they can to prevent us from seeing our agreement on the seafront and in agriculture? In fact, I think the European Union's policy for agriculture is better for success than the one we've had in Iceland. I think it's an opportunity for farmers and for us to become members of the Common Agricultural Policy of the European Union. Let's see the deal. I got it. I got it. A senator, if he knows exactly what he looks like and how the sea trunk comes out, to write it down. Then he can tell you that in a few years.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u100	A respectable president. When it comes to the question of democracy in Iceland, you must first ask where to begin, where to start to complain, because the conduct of this government against Iceland's democracy is beginning to develop a very clear pattern, and it's about to go from democracy all the time. Then I'm not only talking about the betrayal of the Independence Party in particular, but also the forward party, if that's the case. A letter has been sent to the advance party specifically to ask whether the media would promote national pay on the subject and the answer was yes. That was clear. But this is somehow so that in the matter of elections, people often just want to say what is needed to gain power. It was certainly the case when it came to the leading class and the independent class. This in itself is not just the European Union but the way we are going to keep the democracy in Iceland permanently. If it's okay to promise national favors and to betray them by making a suggestion for a breakup before the council and by not trying to break up the matter deliberately in the process that it seems like the council, which, of course, does not come to light until we take care of the case, and indeed, of the people's will, we face a much deeper and more serious issue than the question of whether we are going to enter the EU or not. What should we do with independence if democracy is not valid? While much material content has been discussed and blessed in the European Union, it has also been discussed with the question of whether it should have been paid nationally in the first place to initiate business talks or not. I'm glad to see politicians admit it like hell. 3.m. Reykv.. n. has made that after considering the decision, the decision may have been different. That's normal. It's amazing if a person never looks back and sees something that would have been more convenient for him. We politicians are to take it to heart that we should be able to change our mind, and we should be able to learn from our experience, we politicians who cannot learn, and then we are not capable of any kind of thinking, in my opinion, whether it is inside or outside of politics. With that advance, I would like to suggest that it would have been better to make a national payment in the first place. Despite the wind. 5th a.m. Reykv.. n. may be able to go completely into discussing any stroke of legal nonsense that would have been in his opinion, then the commission would be clear. It would have been different from that of the president of the United States in 2012 and 2013. It would have been not just about what a single group wanted, but what the people themselves wanted. That would have been a different campaign. She would have been on other terms, better on my terms. Given that the people wanted to enter, the question would be: What category of people is there who are trusting to care for Icelandic interests in their discussion? In these circumstances, all classes should be said to ◯ in that situation. But if the people had said no, and it could have happened after a thorough discussion, I would have expected it if the cause was so lost, then it would have been no problem, we wouldn't be here, and we were wondering about the nature of democracy in this matter. I suggest that we learn from experience, that we try to keep the authority clear, and we try to establish what the people want after all. I don't know about any other politicians, but I'd rather not be running after polls. It's a very bad way, the polls are very ambiguous. It is possible, however, to maintain national laws that are professional and are more respected than a single poll by some individual media or company. We can totally allow the nation to make remarkable decisions in this country, not always everywhere, but from time to time. When 53,555 people, or 22.5% of the ideal people, demand a national bill on a matter, when should they maintain a national fee if not exactly? It's all my name, except for the quality of the highest. The minister of foreign affairs to the council, but the matter seems to be out of order, and we've stopped talking about here, and apart from the disrespect of the government for the council, which is a completely independent problem. You're used to it because politicians don't care for the will of the common people between elections, that is, the norm. That's why democracy reforms are so important, as I've mentioned before. But when it comes to this, it's very clear. In fact, it's ridiculously simple. The question is simple: Who should be in charge? No one should hesitate to answer that question. The people. It's up to the people. It is easy for politicians to agree with national laws and to promote democracy when it happens that the nation agrees with them. Everybody's ready to be such a democracy. Everyone's ready for an election when everybody wants to vote for what you want. It is true that freedom of expression is available if it means freedom to say what the politicians themselves agree with, but just as freedom of expression means the right to be wrong, democracy involves the right of the nation to disagree with the politicians of the country and to rule anyway. If the highest. The government does not trust to work faithfully on Iceland's negotiation policies, fine, well, she can only draw her feet up until the next election, and the question will be the right: What groups will trust to work on that work decently? Given that the nation wants to continue the talks that the members of the board of directors seem to fail to realize that there is a realistic possibility. There's a chance the people would say no, let's not go on. Well, then it would just be over. So it is not in my opinion to talk about euro and all that until this matter is resolved, who should be in charge. Now people have asked why this matter should be paid nationally. The answer is clear, it is set in motion and should be clear to all. 22.5% of the ideal people, 53,555 signatures. If it shouldn't be the end of this case, what, do I ask? What?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u101	Airport 70 yours. ... aman.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u102	Hv. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Sigurjónánðsson brings up the airport, 70 up. A man, yes, let's make a choice. Done. There is really no more to be said about the matter for now, except perhaps in the second talk if there is a basis or in an answer I expect to meet shortly. I don't have any more words to say about this at this time. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u103	V.E.G. President. Maybe there's two things I'd like to ask. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson in this matter is because he'll be talking about democracy. Got it. Is it democratic that the people choose that the government is talking about membership that they do not want? I don't see any democracy in that. Now is not the time to do so. Counts 'em out. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson's requisite to maintain a national law when the previous government had ceased its talks and the report on the marine ectoplasm has not been published? Under such circumstances, is there any basis for the nation's choice of continued discussion? I think normal people would think it was a child's language just in this situation. I could leave it in any other situation, but not in this situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u104	A respectable president. With regard to the first question, which was whether I wanted to be democratic, that the people choose that the government talks about membership that they don't want, the answer is simply: Yes. I believe the people will be in charge of this country. If the government does not trust to work on what the people expect them to do, then all they can do is resign and get better people on the job. That saying was the task we are facing in a completely different way if the legitimateness had been reported from the beginning, i.e. if it had been stated from the beginning whether the nation wanted to go over the discussion or not. The last total elections would have been different. And if we agree with the good advice we have here, the next election will be different. The next election will be different. The speech will then be different, by permission of a president. Second question, why? A senator, whether or not I consider democratic to be a national law when it is known that a previous government had canceled - the first government put the discussion on ice temporarily over an election that was their decision but still a matter of urgency. A senator must be aware that there has been a series of attempts to end the discussion, to reset them to the highest degree. Secretary of state said. That's what the government's been trying to do. This suggestion is a response. That proposal wouldn't have come up if it was the highest. A minister of foreign affairs would have treated the council with minimal respect to asking the council, as he did last year and in a memorable way, as a letter later requested. But if everyone could simply agree to leave this matter alone, let it wait for the next election, and keep a national bill just before the election, then we wouldn't be here to discuss it. That's the highest level of action. Governments that make it necessary to discuss this right now. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u105	V.E.G. President. I believe it is important for you personally that when you go to your national law, you choose something that will lead to a conclusion. I don't think there's anything democratic about the nation's choosing that I, who is in the government, will do something I don't want to do. It is by nature a absurd situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u106	What if the government has promised that before?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u107	The government didn't promise. [[Up front.]] That's a different story.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u108	All the Ministers of the Independence Party.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u109	What is of prime importance in a national law is that the result is what can be called that name. That's why I asked each other before. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson is the basis for maintaining a discussion that had been abandoned by the former government, which were actually stopped - nothing was being published in the seaside, there was no discussion - whether there is a need to go to the national law on continued discussion at that point. Should we not, then, rather wait for such a national payment rather than accept it under those circumstances?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u110	A respectable president. In case of a moment. A senator is suggesting that -- now I don't want to put words in his mouth, but that's how I understood - that we keep the rules of the Order to the end of the season and keep the next election based on the question of trust in it, I think it's an idea worth discussing. But whether he shall break the speech, or take up the thread, or hold it in frost; therefore the people shall answer. That is basically so. Now that's how it works. A senator can suggest a change in the proposal presented here, and I encourage him to do so if he believes that time is wrong or that the question is bad or something like that. So the democracy works here at the High General Assembly that we offer and reason it - that is the Teorian - and then vote for it. This might well result in more of the council support a proposal that would be applied slightly differently. That might well happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u111	...in a formal manner.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u112	Whatever change, whatever. A senator would think of it, then she would come here for a discussion and through the council, she wouldn't be the same as was intended for the highest degree. Secretary of state. To say that, I feel that the same basis is now for making that decision, as before. There's been a lot of reports. We can talk about the fishing business, the agricultural business, and other aspects of the matter. I don't see that there is any lack of information that the nation needs to deal with when it comes to deciding whether the discussion should continue or not. I don't see any information card there. It's simply a question of whether or not people want it. In itself, the question is rather simple, though questions that follow, when contracts are concluded, would be more complex. All right, then there should be another national agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u113	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss the proposal of four U.S. political parties to promote national legislation on the continuation of discussions about the involvement of Iceland in the European Union. I'd like to say in the beginning that I feel that the proposal is an outlaw of the terms, but two members of the administration are sitting next to me at my left and listening to the discussion. This is our suggestion and agreement for national regulations, that we finish this issue with a national payment of September 26, the next, the question is expressed here, where the people are able to determine whether the talk should continue or not by crossing with either yes or no. I'm not sure that winter has come up with proposals in the General Assembly, which are as supportive in all categories as these. If the Prosecutors and the Independence Party followed their convictions, so that I do not speak of the promises of their leaders, this proposal should be agreed together at the General Assembly. I would like to say that I have the hope that when the proposal goes to the State Department, representatives of all classes speak no matter whether it is non-worshiped members or heads of the clans, they come to the conclusion and agree to the proposal and agree on the way of contributions to groups that support and agree to promote the matter and the subject to national law. I think it's the most important interest in the nation that we get the answer to this question. The polls say that a large majority of the nation's people want to continue their discussion, but a large majority of the nation's members are opposed to participation, and then we need a contract to lay down the nation and provide funds from a common fund to opposers and supporters to present the case and vote and end this issue. We have plenty of other issues. Why do I say this about widespread support? In fact, when the European Union began to be held in its election in 2009, I can go back to the election so that I don't talk about the election in 2013, but it's a very big deal as the head of the Organization, the newly elected, Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunollsson, now the highest. Prime Minister, sent in a letter to voters two days before the election. Apparently, the letter was not to go out earlier because it was not to be found in the country. The headline is: 'Europe for all of us.' By permission of the president, the letter says: The mission group is the only clear policy for the European Community meeting and defined their agreement goals for discussions. It has been presented as a requirement for involvement in the national sovereignty and uncircumcised custody of national resources to be fundamental in the terms, as well as conditions that include the best interests of agriculture and fishing. Such is the case in treaties of other nations with the European Union, and it is entirely wrong to insist that these demands honor a contract of the EU. A respectable president. I was reading a letter sent to all the voters in the capital area in 2009. This is not a letter from the Chairman of the United States. If you move on to the next level, which was named the same senator's opinion when he was a private member of the State Department of State Affairs. Prime Minister, and read the commission then presented, so he and the parish group thought that we should request a discussion and enter a business discussion. In addition, just prior to elections in 2009, it was advertised that the forward category wanted to march for a meeting with the European Union. Of course, it is possible to consult what was discussed in the last election, where the head of the Action Party promised that a national agreement would be made whether to proceed or not. That's where I leave the forward party, and I wish I could discuss this longer than in 10 minutes, you can't, and go over to the independence party's promise before the last election. It contained a great campaign brochure published on page 18. 5 of the Declaration of Independence Party for the 2013 General election says: 'Nation's decision is to agree on national negotiations with the EU. Then, in the 2013 election elections, all of them promised that the independence party's policy would be settled by a national vote on whether or not to continue our talks. I claim that the Council's dissatisfaction proposal is highly supported by the promises of the government leaders. We know that the Conspiracy and the Bright Future want to continue the meeting. The left green likes to continue our talks, even though they may be opposed, and the Piraans have declared it, too. Why should this matter not be given political treatment, a job that may lead to the introduction of independence and candidates to the promises they made to the voters, and the rest of us who agreed to go directly to our discussions, according to what they had done, and we referred it to the nation? All the procurators of the Independence Party, in all the elections, praised it for the election. Bjarni the Gunnlaugsson of Benediktsson, chairman of the Independence Party, promised it. It is this that the nation resents, the way it is now taken in judgmentless mountain paths, which is the legendary letter that the minister of foreign affairs wrote to the European Union and the European Union itself has declared unattainable, since we are still registered as member countries. This is for the people to decide. So let's give it up in national regulations, do something about the outcome, will continue if the people say yes and stop if the people say no. It is fundamental, and I have the hope that political discussions will be slowly lifted up for the endurance and inconsistencies of many times around here, but in order for the directors of the government classes to decide to keep their promise. Then you will be able to attend this vote, a poll, at the same time. I'm going to use my two last minutes to declare the above opinion that one of the most urgent projects in the revision of the Constitution is to set out a constitution that would include a smaller section of the Generals, 1/3, can decide to refer to the nation, or that a certain percentage of the voters in the country could request a case in the National Code. If that were the case, it would have been possible to refer to the unprecedented motion given during the last assembly and died because it was not in accordance with it but in its administration categories, to the nation, and then we would not need to argue about whether or not to be paid nationally. A respectable president. I am the opinion, as I said, that this is one of the greatest projects in the revision of the Constitution, along with the setting of national resources as a national partner. I don't believe it, considering the promise made by the head of the Agency for elections in 2009, which he gave them on the Constitution, etc. When the minority government was formed, but it is possible to recall it and that the rulers can fulfill the promises that they made to the nation, including the people. This is fundamental, and it does not mean anything to come and say: The nation chose and chose us to rule with 38 members, and these groups are opposed to members of the European Union. The promise was of national pay on whether to continue or not, and that is what is being stated here. It is in my opinion a test of the two rulers, Bjarni the son of Benediktsson, and Sigmundur Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson, the president of these two classes, whether they come forward and say, "Yes, we do mean anything by what we said." We were not lying to the people for votes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u114	V.E.G. President. I want to ask you why. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller to two. The senator spoke of a form of reconciliation, an offer of reconciliation, as it were, in choosing whether or not to continue the business affairs. I want to ask the senator: Is it not much more comfortable that we choose whether the nation wants to walk in the EU? We applied for 2009, it was an application to join the EU, not just to have a business discussion, it was an application, and it is a voluntary application. [[Up front.]] If I'm in charge of membership in the United States, I'd like to go in there.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u115	You don't make negotiations. You don't want a deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u116	[[Set up the application...]] The application is not before us, so choosing simply if you want to enter is far more acceptable because of the application procedure. Then we can choose again, after discussing how much time we will have to adapt, etc., to see if that is acceptable to us. And then I'd like to ask, secondly, count it. A senator still has grounds for continuing member talks, choosing for them now that they have stopped? What are we going to discuss? What would be the significance of a national agreement to continue our discussion? To me, that's incomprehensible, considering the conditions that are present.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u117	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A member of the Independence Party for this discussion is coming up against me and letting me continue to discuss this matter. For the first, the business discussion has not been terminated. It was postponed, and it has been well considered here why the situation did not work out better than it did in its time, and we had hopes that it might run out in a shorter period of time, and it would be possible to sign a contract for the people during the last term. This was due, among other things, to the mackerel dispute, and because the contract aims in the fishing and agricultural sectors were the same as they were under the highest hat. Minister of Jón Bjarnason. The application is included in the Member State's discussion. To answer that question as a matter of course. A senator asks me, to consider whether we want to walk in the European Union or not, no, I don't agree because I want to know what's available, what kind of agreement we can get, what's going to stand on, what's going to happen about agriculture, so I'll take these two parties. What does it say? It is impossible to make an informed decision. We can't, me and what. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son, send in an application to some company that we do not know what is available. We would first find out before we made up our minds. That's exactly what's going on. This is exactly what needs to be brought up in the Member States, in negotiations, what is available. Is the deal acceptable for Iceland and Iceland, or isn't it? I say for my part, there's nothing new, and I've said it before in a speech chair, it depends entirely on what the contract says whether I will say yes or no. It's obvious. There's no way to get one of these things in the first place. That's my first answer, and I repeat what I say. I don't agree with that, and that's not what I think. The European Union and other member countries have not stopped. [[The president calls.]] They lie in the low, awaiting the next election and the next government unless this synonym is accepted.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u118	V.E.G. President. I don't care what you say, quit, or postpone. It doesn't matter to me. The bottom line is this: Why go to a national law on continuing discussions that are not going on? What sort of business negotiations will it be if the nation sends a government into things that do not want to go in? What kind of deal does that make? Of course, this is an impossible option. Hence, the election at this point is a national agreement for continued discussions, no meaning in the present situation, and the premise now because conversation is not in progress. They were delayed, stopped, or any other word they want to use, that is not yet open the ocean - looking report, that is no basis for a discussion now with a government that does not want to do so, and in conditions that exist today where the sea route is not being discussed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u119	V.E.G. President. It is part of the agreement I mentioned and agreed to the proposal that the classes agree to allow the nation to choose whether or not to proceed. And if the people say as polls indicate that they want to have it checked out and to get a contract to give to the nation, then, of course, it is also a message to the political groups. Get together and form a contract board, which all are involved and have a discussion. Of course, there would be improvement in the case of skeptics or even of opposers. Hv. A senator will discuss what to choose and whether a discussion has been stopped or delayed and will not be possible. I think I already answered that. There's no way we can do this. In fact, the impossible is in the mind of a forward movement and an independent party, probably because the polls show that the greater part of the nation wants to continue, so this has been changed. But at the end, I'd like to be able to rethink the campaign brochure and the promises of the Independence Party. I have a picture of him with a beautiful blue color. The EU Member States will decide on the terms of national spending within the terms of the term. Then it is quoted as "reading. " 5 of the Independence Party's death sheet for the 2013 General elections. I suppose that's what it is. A parishioner who is very aggressive and certainly was in the campaign, even though I didn't meet him there, I was in my district, and he participated in giving this campaign brochure to voters, telling them that the Independence Party promised it. In the past, the comments of the Independence Party were reliable. I hope it's still that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u120	President. Yes, we are here on this discussion because the government of the country claims that in the 2013 elections - after which the government received much more here at the General Assembly - has been authorized to end the party talk with the European Union. A year ago, she proposed a Synod decree that led to more than 53 of you. a man signed a statement that they, these Icelanders, did not want to end the meeting. Earlier this winter, after Christmas, went to the highest. Secretary of Foreign Affairs for the East, carrying letters in his Farteski, where the government declared that it had ended these talks. However, the decision to open up this discussion was made here at the General Assembly, and we view it as a way to end only at the General Assembly. Therefore, we suggest that the right of the government to understand that it has a greater part of the nation behind it in breaking up the discussion is not correct. Therefore, the presidents of four U.S. government groups here at the General Assembly have suggested that the matter be held on September 26, I believe. Government members, and perhaps especially independence, often refer to this discussion in order to be paid nationally before the application was submitted and asked us, especially us fellow members, why we have not done so. So I'm telling you right now, it never stood in my mind. During the campaign campaign in 2009, it was one of the main issues of the United States, and I spoke very clearly and clearly, that an application for involvement in the European Union and that the nation accepted a contract when it was in power. It never existed, and it had never been promised that the application itself would be subject to the nation. However, it was clear that there were some people, and perhaps those who were particularly independent again, who were very eager to make such national pay for the application. I think there's two views there. On the one hand, it was the viewpoint of opposers that membership would be applied; they considered it to be such a big step that an application would be tempted by any means needed to prevent it, as if opposers who will be finished to be involved would now consider a priority to take the application off the table. Similarly, in 2009, opposers of the Member State did not want the application to go to the European Union to try to prevent it from being paid nationally. On the other hand, there were also people who wanted to apply this application but who needed shelter. These people came and said to us who continued: Now accept our proposal for a national hearing, and it will certainly be accepted. But it had never been promised, and it may not have been accepted at all. Then we can also wonder, in the light of the way people have been involved in national pay, whether they had been relevant even if it had been legalized by a national law to submit this application. We can think about it, and I really doubt it. What now matters is that prior to the 2013 election, Europe's affairs were pushed off the table. That is why people did not vote for European affairs in those elections. It is true that there would be no dramatic steps in these matters except for the payment of a national law. Today, it is clear that governments are going to go behind their words, protesting people, and wanting politicians to keep their word. Therefore, I view it as not only the European issues that exist but also the credibility of politicians, which may be far more serious than Europe's. Or do we not feel that it is a little serious that new political powers are introduced to the pretext that people want honest politicians? At least I think it's serious, and I don't feel that I'm dishonest. I don't think that there are people in my differing viewpoints, but I don't like being accused of dishonesty. I feel that this label is put on all of us if those in charge are going to continue their course in the treatment of Europe. All of us must be concerned about the low opinion of the people of the Council, not because of us, but because we are entrusted with the authority and responsibility. The responsibility for trusting our words comes with confidence. That responsibility is far bigger and greater than political parties and their interests. Whether you like it or not, the highest responsibility is for the government of the country, the greater part here at the General Assembly. I certainly hope that men will keep their word about not making dramatic decisions in the European languages without asking the people in the country. All of us have promised to do so in one way or another. In the United States, we promised that a covenant would be held under the nation. Before the last election, the present government group promised that there would be no dramatic steps in the European affairs without its being carried out under the nation. We must all insist that they fulfill their word, not only for the people, but also for the people here so that the entire political class of the country will not be brought to dishonor by this and thereby by the World Council, i.e. That there are working people who can't keep their word.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u121	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for her fine speech. I want to ask you why. A member of the Parliament to see if it is among the Icelanders who are not alert to being involved in the EU, whether it is acceptable to participate in the European road without warning. I understand that most people don't want to be part of the European Union, and then there's a smaller section to look at it, but there's still some small part to consider. I want to ask you why. A member of the Parliament what will she put in advance, whether they are irreformable and how she will view the government's commission given in 2009 by the General Assembly. Was it with reservations, or was it without notice?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u122	A respectable president. When you apply for involvement in the European Union and the State, you are always going through negotiations. That's because there may be some sides, they can be called special solutions, paroles, whatever, I just ask the senator to continue waving the paper because it doesn't affect me at all. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] - Yeah, yeah. Is it possible to stop this idiotic act here in the Senate Hall?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u123	Order in the chamber.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u124	I believe that in negotiations with the European Union we will achieve a deal that is good and successful for the Icelandic nation, for the Icelandic economy and for the future of the country. I believe that the past negotiations were made. Whether the senator calls it that, or what, he may use the words he wants to say about it. But in English it is so I believe that we will be able to make a deal with the European Union that the Icelandic nation can enjoy. But I need to see that deal. I believe we'll get him, but I need to see him.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u125	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this answer. There is another matter that I would like to discuss with you. A member of the Parliament who is involved in the collapse and this involvement, it was in many areas. First, it may not have been a general interest to apply for membership unless the country had experienced one of the largest bank failures ever made in human history, one of the ten largest and most expensive banks ever made. I have a certain understanding that politicians were almost terrified of directing the ship in the turbulent waters. Is it true that the European Union has made it a requirement for the European Union to agree that the Icesave Convention would be agreed on, that the Icelands will accept the debt of a private bank, one of the European Union's requirements for accepting the Member State? Why is it so often in the progress reports that the problem that is the Icesave Convention will still be solved? There was a natural babble in the boat. The government was able to establish the first Icesave deal and succeed. The European Union then accepted the application, followed by a babb into the boat. The people did not agree to accept the debt of their own bank. Thereafter, the progress reports show that this is a problem. Was this a problem that had to be solved before walking in the EU?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u126	A respectable president. I have never heard that it was a requirement for the European Union to accept the application for leaving Icesave. I've never heard that before. [[Up front.]] Well, I guess the Senator knows something more about it than I do. So maybe he can bring some paper and wave it here for our amusement. On the other hand, I suppose the Senator knows that both the Dutch and the British are in the European Union, and that is also the case in progress reports and such, I think it will be shown if any member states make comments. It is clear that these countries wanted this resolved, but there was nothing to do with the negotiation. It's just their opinion. Maybe you know why. The chairman is not responsible for the negotiation, but it is the Member States who have to agree and can be on the alert. I won't say anything about it, I don't know, but I think it's really fun and it's good to feel why. A senator coming in with Icesave into this matter. But I don't think it had any effect on this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u127	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a conquistador of National Remuneration on the continuation of discussions about Iceland's membership in the European Union, a proposal made by the directors of all the government groups and could not be discussed before Easter but is now scheduled. What I would like to do is take this discussion a little from the situation in the country today as well as to consider the terms of the Government's policies from the spring of 2013 after elections in which existing government groups won a fine victory, took over the government, and submitted their policies. One of the things I think it's important to talk about this is a text that reads, by permission of the president: The government will seek to activate the nation's controversies and to counteract the divisive and suspicions that have characterized Icelandic politics and discussions in society for some time. It is interesting to consider the matter in connection with this policy declaration. Exactly what has happened in the EU since the election is that it has been placed in an amazing knot. Promises made on the consignment of the election's handling of the matter were betrayed. The country is raised with both powerful protest meetings, with signatures between 50 and 60 points. people who wish for the matter to be finished. It's all given to a fire and a fucking joke. Thus the case has been maintained, first by a proposal discussed in the previous year and by a report to be submitted and discussed in the council. As soon as she was inside the council, there was a suggestion to end the discussion. She's going to the State Department. It's never over. Since then, the matter has been on its way back into the council with a new scrap plan, ending with some embarrassing letter that no one understands or at least it is hard to know what understanding it is, and attempts are deliberately avoided by the Allied Council. This has led to our becoming deeply involved in a typical matter that we need to resolve. There's something else said in the government policy declaration. They're talking about destroying political uncertainty, so I'll testify to the word in the declaration. It also discusses that, by permission of the president, the workforce will be met with the labour market partners for the development of work markets and for the future. Are you working on this? What is the vision of the government? Where are we going to go for employment and education, what's the policy there? The following was recently called to a meeting at a work agency that was discussing employment market prospects over the next two years, but the future is not looked further. What is the government's policy on currency? How will the government react to the elimination of companies from the country? How will the government respond to information on the transport of people of the country? It had been successful to return from Iceland after the collapse that was quite large, and even conditions were reached in 2013, but in 2014 780 more Icelandic citizens moved from the country than those who moved to the country. Brings people home after study, e.g. people of the medical professions? What are the prospects for a job market? According to the report I quoted from the Work Programme on the prospects for the next year, 2015◯2017, 2,700 new jobs began to develop in Iceland in 2014. Those jobs are assigned to people who come from abroad to work, foreign citizens who support our building. It's not the Icelanders we're adding. 96% of what was added in 2014 is a travel service. It's the only leg of growth in Iceland. We are discussing the EU and are often told: Do you want to talk about the EU? Why don't you discuss the situation in society today? Let's just look at the country today. What does the house address look like? What's the interest cost in Iceland? What's with the insurance? At the recent district convention of the Progress Party, it was agreed that insurance on consumer loans will be removed in the future. What about the 1,600,800 billion, I don't know exactly what the number is, 1,400,1600 billion in securities loans, the housing bar in the Icelandic system? What about the pay and the hours of work? What is the salary of the Icelandic labour market? Why do we have some bullshit work issues at the moment? Is it in the mind that this is to achieve a solidarity, a wide agreement with the labour market partners on the development of work markets and future development? It is not a stone upon a stone in the government's vision, nor is it a declaration of its own policy. This may not be surprising if we consider this in the context of this case in which people engage in a campaign, get into trouble with the EU discussion, go out in promising, both administration groups are making very clear that the matter of the Member State's application will lead to the end of the European Union. Note, too, that the promise is made long after the members' application begins. Men can discuss what previous government groups did, but the promise is given to bring about the election in 2013, and actually after the election, as well, and it is completely betrayed. I can agree with what has been said here that it is sad to have to be a senator to listen to the criticism of the political caste that it is not a word to be understood and that it only makes a promise to call out for votes. When we approach the EU, we have reason to examine regular connivations in this country. We can't just talk about the collapse. I invested myself in the '79 house. Why don't we talk about inflation, 1981,1983, which was about 100%? Should we talk about it in 1991 when the depression occurs in Scandinavia? Shall we discuss it around 2000? In this country, property recordings have been made over and over over because of the currency of the currency, for the management of many governments, but most certainly under the rule of the Foreign and Independence Party. It has been used as in the collapse of the currency, resulting in a fall and a one - fold drop of huge amounts from employees to businesses, especially from export roads. We have a long way to reach the preconceived level. I'm gonna mention it all because it needs to be examined in the overall context. We are having trouble trying to settle matters in a way that brings relief. That's why the government offers this proposal. All right. You wanted a double vote at the time. We were against her. We thought it would be enough to go to votes when there was a contract, if it got caught. Now we're offering this: Taking this serious personal dispute, we put it before the nation, and we take it upon ourselves. What do you want to do for the rest of your life? It may well be that only one, two, three, four votes, but let's just put it under control, put the matter to rest in the long run if you don't want to continue your discussion, don't want to be a member. According to an MMR recent survey, the difference is very narrow. Let us take the stand to resolve this situation so that we will not be dealing with it forever, this grand nation that has not, in any way, been able to accomplish it. After reports, we are intrigued to consider the fact that we know exactly what is coming out of this. Why were you doing a snout job? Why were negotiation goals being set? Why were they very hard to deal with if we had thought that it was not a reason to see what would come out of contracts? I realize that the biggest issue in the world that controls people's thinking and controls them is the Icelandic resources, the marine route, and, in part, the agriculture. I don't think there will be a problem with any other factors. Is too much to allow at least The people choose whether we will continue and try to negotiate on the table and then try to follow that course? If the people refuse, it's all over the table. If not, we will continue this work. Is there too much to expect, or is it impossible for the government to continue working on a case, even if they are personally opposed, if the people want to? I don't think it's true. Also, I don't think governments should be removed because they have a legal case in the U.S. National Court. We must endure and dare to work according to the people's will. That's what we need in democratic coverage. I challenge the government parties who fought for a national fee for membership and double votes to support the proposal of government opposition to the continuation of the nation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u128	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his extensive speech. It included grounds and reasons for continuing the activities of the Member States. What for? The problem, the cost of interest, the currency, the insurance policy, the financial resources, and that. The threat is so high in Iceland that the solution is to apply in the EU. But what about the situation in the European Union? A considerable change has been made since the application was submitted. I can well understand that in the middle of a collapse and in a state of freedom, there could be a solution in applying for involvement in the European Union, which was not as far into the present - day crisis. The average unemployment rate is 12%, but this is 4% today. Young people's unemployment runs at tens of percent, I think it's over 50% in Greece. There is so much famine in Greece that there are no drug shortages, children in the schools, and they starve. It's in the European Union. The Greeks have the euro. It's always bad to suffer a shock, but isn't it obvious that it's even worse if you have a common German currency, even worse? What they do is send in the trident. The three - year - old suggests that public employees will be laid off, paid down, sold inside, all done to pay off their debts to the bankers. Is this a happy song? A senator? I'm asking.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u129	V.E.G. President. I've never talked about the happiness of the EU or EU. Besides, I haven't talked about Greece in particular when I'm comparing Iceland with other countries. Why don't we take the North countries?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u130	Ireland.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u131	Why don't we take the North countries? [[Up front.]] Take Denmark, Sweden, and Finland. Let's talk about Britain. I know they have other currency, but they're bound by the euro. What is the difference between what happened in Greece and what happened here? Here we lost the power to buy 20 to 30% without being asked. They had to negotiate such a breakdown in Greece. That's right, as a matter of fact. One senator says, there was a great deal of effort because such offers were not offered in a country where there was great difficulty. This is only reduced by a single line of pens, by decisions made between parties, by taking billions and hundreds of billions of dollars into certain articles at the expense of employees. Is it that good? Is it so good that we take our insurance and borrow double for someone like me? Let's hear it. I want solutions, and I want suggestions. I know why. A senator has made a suggestion, he is alone about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u132	You can join us.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u133	I'm ready to look at it, because there's a way to look at it, and then the government will decide. But I'd also like to consider this suggestion, and we're just asking that a national agreement be held, that the nation be allowed to express themselves and decide the rest. There will be no political party, neither the Controversy nor the forward group, that will take the nation into the European Union. The people will decide for themselves if treaties are reached. Is it too much to get this on the table to see how we can take away the insurance, how we can get a more reliable currency? Is KPMG, just an empty nutcase? For example, they say that if we have a vision of a new currency being introduced here, we will be better able to eliminate the oceans, and the euro is mentioned in this context.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u134	A respectable president. That's a very interesting discussion. I think this is the very issue of whether it's more devastating, in the past, a gangring, or internal gang crash. The Greeks are experimenting with an internal gang fold. It takes many, many years, and it bites mainly on employees. Humans can get out of the country with their possessions. It survives by driving its money at a rate where economic growth is the greatest, and it is not the greatest in Greece. The paymen are left behind, and they deal with a decrease in pay and a reduced standard of living. That's what's involved in a currency alliance. Still, just to comfort others. A senator, because he's worried about the position in Iceland, she might be better, I just agree that there's a lot that might be better. True, we have suffered a great shock, but it is that according to the Social Progress Index before 2015, a respected comparison of equations and how living levels have been improved in all countries of the world, Iceland is in its 4th place over the countries that have reached its most extended length. The countries above us are not in the European Union or at least not with the euro. Norway is the top, second place of Sweden, Switzerland, then New Zealand and Canada below us. One of these states is in the European Union, Sweden. Instead of binding their coins to the euro, they allowed her to fall in order to increase her competitiveness and their professional life after the shock. I think it's quite right to take the discussion, and I'm glad you did. A senator brings up solutions. The applicant party, of course, is against insurance. I agree with what. A senator says you can't keep insurance. We have to start with new loans. Then we should set up an encouraging system for those who are guilty of loans and who switch them to disloyal loans. It's going to be a success. Iceland continues to have a small open economy that can go through tragedy, and it's totally unacceptable that it's always those who are committed to taking on responsibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u135	V.E.G. President. I'm very comfortable with that when men, by accident or by purpose, recall what the situation is in Iceland, for example, about the equation, and how we got out of the crash. That is an irrefutable testimony to the diversity of former governments, i.e. by means of a mixed method, there was tremendous success. How interesting it is to consider it in all our economics and numbers about how we reacted and how we were successful! But that does not change the fact that it will happen again in five or ten years. And when we're talking about what happened here in Iceland it's no different than the fact that the members of the government here today made it their goal that Iceland would become the financial center of the universe and compete with Ireland. Isn't that right? [[Up front.]] We're talking about the time when the bank system was Icelandic, with 14 of you. Billions. Fortunately, this amount fell, even though we had been in the European Union, on the bank most important. We put the Bank of Scotland on the British government. He continued to rule because he almost broke his head. The German banks got into real trouble. Let us not overdramatize the solutions, i.e. That we escaped because we made many wise decisions back then. But there are a lot of unsolved problems. We need to pick up the purchase power. We need to make peace in this society, and that's what I was stressing. Why, then, is the government tearing us apart rather than finding a path to resolve things?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u136	The EU is not a solution.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u137	That's because you're gonna decide for the nation, huh? Senator, this isn't the solution. If we're going to have special solutions and not afraid to ask the people, then we're in a bad situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u138	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a proposal for a resolution on national law on the continuation of discussions about Iceland's involvement in the European Union as a matter of course. paritaprevir Katrín the daughter of Jakobsdóttir spoke earlier today: but the presidents of all the sides of the council are the ministers of the motion. So we're reviewing what the motion says, she's saying, with President's permission: The Council concluded that a national agreement shall be held on September 26, 2015, to determine whether the European Union's Member States should continue to Member States' activities. The following question will be raised in the National Remuneration Act: Would you like Iceland to take up a three-way discussion with the European Union, with the objective of making a contract under contract for the nation's approval or innuendo? The choice, on the other hand, is yes and no. This is not a suggestion to take a material position in the European Union, but the objective is to respond to the fact that it is a matter of such magnitude that it is reasonable to look for guidance on its progress. The bottom line of the matter, as it is well known, was that with a resolution adopted in 2009, the General concluded to commit the government to Iceland to the European Union, and after district talks, the National Convention of the Member States' agreement would be held. That suggestion is still valid. However, before the last election, the decision was made to interrupt the discussion until the election began. V.E.G. The current government decided not to do so, and in the past made a proposal for a resolution to the previous council decree. They were shocked to receive 53,555 signatures, which were challenged at the General Assembly to pay the National Convention on the Member States. As it turned out, that council proposal was never passed on from the council. In a sense, then, we have reached the point where the letter is widely known as the highest. The secretary of state sent to the European Union, in the past, does not really change the position of the Member States, but has continued to put this matter into the knot that is now established at the General Assembly where we are, I allow myself to say something similar in the discussion. Today's proposal is the reaction to the previous and is presented as a matter of compromise between breaking up the discussion altogether - as though it seemed to be the highest. The government simply did not trust himself to do so, at least not in a legitimate way, by presenting its proposal at the Council - and by continuing the discussion. As we have heard in the discussions at the council, it seems that there is no interest in this but at ease. Congress members of the greater part or the highest. Government, despite the word that fell into an election for another. I believe and feel that after listening to a discussion at the council, I am thinking that the people would like to do what they want to do in a position that has come up. whether they want to take up the thread of the discussion with the European Union with the aim of making a covenant under the nation or whether they want to stop the application procedure, if all that is practical and wise to do in the case of our present day. It doesn't seem to me that we'll continue to argue on the matter over and over without reaching our conclusions. I think we could be discussing other matters instead of always getting in the way of whether or not we should continue. Now, we just turn to the nation and receive it as we want it to do, and then we act on it. This is what I say in spite of my attitude and the movement I am part of at council that our interests are better off outside the European Union. Instead, we must continue to decide what we will do and then follow the discussion that matches what has been said about the nation's will. Finally, I'd like to say that I support this synonym that I believe to be a good compromise and, in fact, the only sensible thing we can do in terms of the situation. That's why I hope she'll be accepted.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u139	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for her speech. What may be interesting and crystallize somewhat in this matter is the question of how well we are equipped to deal with issues of opinion with which there are differences of viewpoints between classes and between parties. This case seems to split some categories, e.g. We know that this has been supported by significant support within both sides, and I also know within the left movement a ◯ green supply, even though the majority of the views are different. What I find interesting about the approach of the left movement, which makes it possible for me to observe the discussion here today, is that many of the members of the board do not seem to worry about going outside the category, outside the standard institution, and just ask people what they think and how they feel about it, even if you have some opinion about the results. I think this is an interesting approach to the situation, and I think there's a lot more to it. That's why I'd like to ask him why. A senator whether she cannot predict that other issues may have a comparable approach, i.e. In terms of resolution and outcome, approach to try to get some sort of solidarity on the subject, because sometimes the situation is too big for the National Assembly of Iceland. I mean, some matters are simply so that it is normal to take them outside this house and ask for their advice. It has proved true that this is the case. I wonder why. A senator whether this could not apply to other matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u140	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir for her questions. It is a very sceptical question of how well or how bad we are in the position to handle opinions at the General Assembly. What has surprised me the most during the winters I've worked here is how much time goes to discuss lawsuits and how little discussions are about the content of the issues, i.e. how little political discussions are involved in becoming in a conference hall, where there is a tendency to differ from basics and what ideals, policies, or goals the members of Congress are taking the lead in their work. This is true to me because I thought I was here to discuss politics instead of a lawsuit, but I guess you have to learn that, clearly. So the question is, Should there be any similar treatment? Should we approach the people? Yeah, I think we should do that, especially if there are clearly opinions about, even against classes, and we're doing a very bad job here, getting either an agreement or a tip-off where there's a difference in which we want to handle complex issues. [[The president calls.]] Yes, we should look to the people.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u141	V.E.G. President. I think it's an interesting approach. As a member of the body points out, an unusual amount of time has been spent discussing the treatment of the council, and this surprised her. I think we're right next to what's going on. A senator who has been unusually prominent in this winter, and this is because there has been extraordinary developments in the administration of the government. Consider, for example, a frame of life where law is disregarded. For example, consider this case in which the last council was decided to make a direct suggestion to end the situation and try to pass it through the council. They failed, apparently did not have the power to do so, and they just plan to avoid the council in this way. There are other issues you might consider. You're right next door. An unusually extensive discussion of this matter is made up of a senator, who is responsible for an unusually large number of themes. It seems reasonable to ignore laws that often involve decision making, such as in a frame plan, simply because they want to see other conclusions. In this matter, members shun the council because they do not like or fear any possible conclusion. That's a very important comment by which. Senator. I'd like to mention one thing because we were discussing what subjects might be that should be addressed to the nation. I think we should do this more and more, and we're supposed to do this in big business, for example. in matters that concern our resources. In fact, it has given us a clear message through national law on the change to the Constitution, but the fact remains that we have a government that does not want to accept that national fee. So I feel that democracy and its status are becoming very sensitive because if we ask the people what they want to do, ask their advice, we also need to apply it, no matter what we think about the results. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u142	V.E.G. President. It's nice to hear it from what. A senator who has sat here a lot longer than I am that it is unusual how much discussion has taken place in this winter. Similarly, I feel very sad that we are in that position. However, it is not only the case that concerns me but also the small part of the general, private members of the board of directors are having discussions in the chamber. I know it's part of the democracy that we're exchangeing our views from here on the town of Generals, but we don't just do it by pressing a button and paying votes, because the discussion also matters. There are reasons, even though you do not agree, that can lead you through the discussion and help you either to change your mind or even to change your viewpoint. Hv. For example, one U.S. senator mentioned that national law cases were the ones who turned to our resources. I wholeheartedly agree that we must specifically call the nation's opinion of these matters because the resources are not our private resources at the General Assembly, but ours all.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u143	Mr. President. I'd like to ask the senator for her position. I hear the Senator supports the request that the nation be asked, that the people be allowed to decide whether or not we will continue the matter of partnership. I would like to hear the senator's position on the relationship and why it is followed by it or not, in view of the position we see today. I myself am not a follower of the European Union. My position is that I believe it is a sense of power. I think the power would move further away from the people. I think it's still an opportunity for it in Iceland to make it a democratic state, make it a more subversive state, a state in which people are increasingly able to make decisions that they have. This is exactly what we propose for the people to come to a decision that will concern them. This is with regard to the nation and the great majority of the people who want to decide whether to continue the meeting. The best thing I can see in my situation is that the people would say in a national bill: We want to complete our parting talks. They'd see what was in that package, and then I hope the people would reject it. I would say no, I don't want to join the European Union. Then it would be all out of the table for perhaps 10 to 15 years, or it would be hard to pick it back up within that time. It's something I see myself as the best position in this process. But I would have wanted to know what the senator's position is in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u144	V.E.G. President. As I came into my speech, but perhaps not completely clear enough, since I was mainly guided by the counsel and content of this council proposal, my position is that Iceland's interests are better off outside the European Union. As evidence of why I feel that way, I agree with it. A senator said that by entering the European Union, I have the power to move further away from the people, and that is one of the things I see when I make a decision. Another thing I can mention is that I think of too much militaryism in the European Union. I would like to approach the international language with other merits, and I don't feel strong enough there to speak peace. That's one of the things I look at when I shape a stand. Third, I have found the European Union too right - to form when it comes to its response to economic hardships. There are three things I would like to state as a reason why I believe Iceland is better off outside the European Union. Well, I just can't remember. A senator had more questions, but I have to answer them in a second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u145	Mr. President. Hv. A senator evidently feels the same way. Senators of the Independence Party and of their agreement with what they promised in their last campaign, at least for the first time. There, the Independence Party in his campaign brochure, by permission of a president, says: The suicide party considers Iceland's interests to be better off outside the European Union. The national decision is to make a national decision on how to deal with the EU in the terms of the term. It's perfectly clear. It's the same thing as "wah." A senator says. Hv. A senator of the left green green and a group of left green people consider Iceland's interests to be better off outside the European Union than he would like to go to national pay, would like the nation to decide that accordance with the EU will be decided during the election period. We propose this council resolution that it will be done on September 26 of this year. In case of a moment. Councilmen, like what they're doing. paritaprevir Asking a Birgir's Ármannsson, thinking that it might be a little early and better to wait only with a national bill, he naturally suggests the treatment of the matter at the council to proceed immediately before the elections: let's do it right before the elections, and thus fill the campaign with the Independence Party to make a decision on the decision to enter the terms of national agreements with the EU during the election period. Then there's the Independence Party and what. paritaprevir Left greens may not agree on the other aspects, that the reason not to walk in the European Union has to make the relationship too wary or too right. But they clearly agree that they're going to a national bill, have promised it, and that Iceland's interests are better off than inside. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u146	V.E.G. President. The Independence Party and I agree on our refusal to walk in the European Union. But I'm sure we often disagree on the reasons why we shouldn't enter there, but not always, and I have to admit that sometimes I've just wondered how much I agree with it. Parliaments of the Independence Party, and even the surreal. Councilmen of the forwarding party have made progress in their stand of entry. But it's how we're going to end this case, especially as it looks at us today, and how the discussion has been developing, especially in the last two years, helps me to understand and to understand. Clearly, the members of the administrative committee are greatly involved. As I described in my speech about this proposal for interpretation, I believe the right way now is to present the case with the nation, i.e. Whether or not we should continue to do business, then take our pulse when we know the outcome and arrange our affairs in this house according to the nation's will. I'm sorry, considering what she's been talking about today, it seems to me. The members of the board are not prepared to go that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u147	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. In many ways, delegates who have participated in this discussion for an interesting and informative discussion. Of course, some of these are in their own way repeated material from what has been here in the conferences, while others shed more light on the issues under consideration. I think we can say so, if we take the discussion from a broader perspective, that here we have reflected how different opinions are about most of these issues. Europe's output varies considerably from category to category, even within category, but at least between classes and human vision are very different. I think it can be determined by the discussion that, as the polls also indicate among the people, the majority of opposition to entry in the European Union is if that is the question asked. I conclude from the comments of the representatives of the classes mentioned here that it is quite clear that, in fact, it is primarily the Conspiracy and the Bright Future, and their members, who really want to share in the European Union, though some say that it is on conditions. Nevertheless, these two groups speak in a way that requires involvement, whereas 2/3 of the councils speak differently, either in a way that is out of harmony or that is simply contrary to membership. This is in any way related to what has been before, but I think that during the last term, more part of the council has also been opposed to entry into the European Union, as it was found that one of the administrations at the time, although supporting most of the membership, was fully entitled to combat involvement in the smell of the matter. National polls also show that when asked: Do you want Iceland to become a member of the European Union? the answer to the voters in each subsequent poll is, after a year, that the greater part is opposed to membership. The contradiction that appeared to us and perhaps the complex reality is that in public polls, there is also overwhelming support for continuing talks. That, of course, is what causes certain political complications. It is because it seems that a considerable number of people feel that the package could be checked, the European Union menu, or that the European Union can adapt to Iceland for discussion. As the European Union is relatively well known and has been for a long time, my basic stand for these products is shaped. The European Union is certainly developing and changing, but it is a relatively well-known size and the person applying for involvement in the European Union wishes to be involved in the European Union as it is, I know. In fact, I find it quite contradictory in the structure determined by a majority of the Generals in the summer of 2009 to apply for membership, desiring to start a business discussion without really being sure of wanting to enter. I think that is the source of many of the problems we face in these matters, i.e. that members of the council and elsewhere in the community convinced themselves that the package could be checked, interviewed without necessarily planning to reach a conclusion. For one thing, I think that this has been a problem since the early summer of 2009. In terms of the proposal presented here, I would like to say that I feel, in a mild way, in an untimely way to make a decision there. I am convinced, indeed, that the process should not be restarted, whether we talk about continuing in the last season or starting again, unless there is any evidence that they are planning to reach a conclusion. No negotiations should be made unless they intend to make contracts; they should not seek involvement in the alliance unless they intend to enter into it. Of course, there may be some things that may make it possible for humans who are planning to reach a conclusion that may not come all the way. But I feel that the key to achieving a conclusion is that the Allied Council, Government, or whoever is involved in such a process is that he intends to enter the European Union. That's why I think that any action, any steps taken in this direction, will be made if you're not prepared to make a decision. Therefore, I think that when circumstances arise in such a way that it is impossible for more things to develop during a council to pursue involvement in the European Union, it is highly irresponsible to have a vote in which it is assumed that there will be further discussions. I think there is a prerequisite for such discussions, if they reject again, that real political support is in following the process and reaching its conclusions. I don't see that the more things would form in this hall as he is now appointed, and I find it extremely difficult to imagine that this will happen, even if it would be chosen to be met tomorrow. It was not so during the last term that political willingness to walk in the European Union. We know exactly why the foxes were cut in that respect. The proposal to send an application was adopted on July 16, 2009, was not due to the fact that a greater proportion of the council supported our entry into the European Union. It wasn't like that. This was made clear in the case of a number of rows of left - green rows that they did not see so. Therefore, I think that in order for someone to be serious in the course of action with the proposal presented here, and that may lead to some conclusion, the political support for the policy of walking in the European Union should be much clearer and stronger than at present. Therefore, I think that when men consider such a suggestion - all right, this is a suggestion for a certain step, a national agreement to continue our discussion - they need to ask themselves, " What then? ' Do people really see me, so I'll throw out the question in the hall, some sense in it for a political part or state, and then I'm not just talking about the governments that are now sitting right now but other possible governments that could take over, being in a conversational process where decisions need to be made at various levels, political decisions aimed at getting us into the European Union, if people don't have political conviction that they should be heading there? Does that make any sense?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u148	Mr. President. Hv. A senator rightly says that more share is involved in the European Union and that more is involved by continuing Member States. He asks himself, " Is this a contradiction? ' No, it's not a contradiction because people want to look in the package like a boy. A senator mentioned. People need information to make informed decisions, and it is only wise that our people want to make an informed decision in this matter. It's just very good. Now the question is: The Senator says that his position on the matter is that the European Union is a known size and the person applying is asking for membership. I suppose it's the point that we're applying for involvement, if we apply. He says: We're going to get results. When you make negotiations with someone, you are going to get results. You are going to get information to make a informed decision whether the agreement that man has put between you is something you want to buy, whether you want to sign it. That's what you want. You want the information and you can make the decision. That's why you're going into the contract process. That's the result of the contract process. This may be the case: No, we are not going to enter the European Union. It may also be: Yes, we're going to join the European Union. The result is both. That's what you do when you're making a deal. Now I'd like to ask you what. Senator: In view of the granting of the campaign of the Independence Party, a brochure for the election, then, with the permission of a president: the suicide party considers Iceland's interests to be better off outside the European Union than within. The national decision is to make a national decision on how to deal with the EU in the terms of the term. Hv. According to one U.S. senator, members of the Parliament must conform to their convictions and have conviction that it is good to go to the European Union. But is it his conviction that he and the Independence Party should follow their campaign?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u149	V.E.G. President. The policy of the Independence Party on the affairs of the European Union was adopted at a national meeting in February or March 2013. It said that Memberal matters were to be discontinued and not continued unless they had a positive result in a national law. That depends on the direction I am working for.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u150	Mr. President. This is correct, as the senator says, but now a campaign plan was issued, a promise policy plan, a campaign policy plan of the category for elections, and in that series what I mentioned and want to repeat, by permission of presidents: 'The Nation will decide on terms of partnerships with the EU in terms of national votes during the term period.' Now I don't know what it is. A senator himself spoke those words, but this is what appeared in the election term, and this is what many other members of the council said in the contingency of elections. I'd like to ask you again. A senator whether he is convinced that the senators are expected to keep an election course, a simple question. It is so with regard to national regulations in general. Many now say that national laws are so expensive, and we can't do this. But democracy is cheap, democracy is excessively cheap compared to another system of government where corruption thrives, inefficiency, etc. It is suggested that national payment is expensive, that other forms are much more expensive. National pay, both the Ministry of State and the Council - and the cost of the national war of 2012 - cost some 300 million. K. Now I'd also like to ask the senator if he would approve of it and be willing to pressure it within his own party to earn a little extra tax at a raffle, which is now 2 billion dollars. tax stock - if you go to 24% - could you not agree that if you can't afford a national fee that costs 300 million dollars? K. we can't afford to go to the market for this valuable thing that could pay for national fees every year.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u151	Mr. President. Just to answer that, you can rethink a lot of things in the respect of the tax system and in my body of Congress there's been a discussion about the exact factors. There's a senator here. I haven't used it in this discussion as a argument against this suggestion that it costs 300 million. K. On the other hand, I think it is important that the possibility of a national law be given to them in general. I think it's positive that they're being used in increasing numbers, but I'm probably not as radical in that regard as it is. A senator who surely wants to make more use of national pay than I do. I believe it is a form that must be used in certain cases in the case of a major issue, but I would like to be careful about it, so that it is a device used in real life. Regarding what individual candidates have said, I have this warning that the Independence Party campaign will appear in his national conference resolution. What a senator may be quoting is a review of a category's homepage.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u152	In the policy plan itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u153	I have no idea how much I know of a national summit plan, but it is likely that a statement is made by a website that is likely based on the comments of the individual candidates and the head of the party before election, and I think they recognized that they have gone too far compared to what was practical in that statement.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u154	A respectable president. I'm glad to hear it. paritaprevir A year's Birgir Ármannsson sees it as a good thing to use national terms in some cases in big cases. A senator expressed it. Then I wondered exactly what would be in their favor if not in this case. Now, I just want to look to the future, for the suggestion that we now address is a date, and it gives us a specific question. The report, as far as I can see, does not bind in any way, and it would be an option in the theory to change it with a change in proposal. The date might as well have been changed. The text of the question, for example, might be changed, giving it to us anyway. Then I wonder what. A senator would agree that this matter, the question of continued Memberal discussions with the European Union, would be set up in a national term along with the next general election, whether or not. A senator believed it to be wiser than the idea he has so strongly criticized. Then I'd like to mention it specifically, as a boy. A senator may know that when an proposal to break up talks came up at the last assembly, 53,555 signatures for setting the case in a national law came up. There are about 22.5% of the ideal people. It was a case that the Council seemed to have settled, and if it had been delivered, and these signatures would have been available, it would have been all right. So a senator supported the coming of that matter in a national law? And in particular, I wonder if that national agreement could have taken place at the same time with the next election.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u155	V.E.G. President. I think my basic stand in this regard is that in order to have discussions again, political support and political will to follow that process. I'm worried about that situation, so I'm just speaking out, which could come up if the decision was made in a national law on a question of this kind that there was no more to be received here at the council to follow up and there was no more in the government to follow. I think it's a problem because we're having discussions with the European Union about involvement is not, we can say, a simple tool study to a certain extent. It is a manual that consists of comparing European Community legislation with the European Union and investigating what is in our legislation in accordance with what is required in the European Union. However, in many matters political decisions need to be made, in many areas, political responsibility for decisions, and I think that this may be a very difficult situation, both on the inside and on the part of the receiver, if the political conviction is lacking that is necessary to bring up such a discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u156	A respectable president. All right. I see why. A senator then feels that he does not like having a national bill along with the election's next election or at least the same problem with that method. Then I'd like to reiterate the other part of the question. Let us return to a time when the proposal to break up talks was submitted by the highest level. Secretary of state. Suppose it had passed through the council, saying that 22.5% of the ideal people would then have demanded a national bill on that matter, to break up the discussion - be aware, not to continue them during this term or even the next, that question would be left to the next total election. If the suggestion to break up talk would be made in accordance with national requirements under these circumstances, then why? So, a senator supports the provision of the matter into a national law? If not, I'd like to ask: " Under what circumstances? A senator in favor of a national law?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u157	V.E.G. President. To try to make it clear, I believe that certain fundamental decisions are the nature of which they should clearly agree with the votes of the nation. For example, I thought that a final decision to go to the European Union must always be paid nationally, just for example. This is a very dramatic step that is not about the treatment or about the situation of the trial but about the final outcome. Under those circumstances, though, I would feel that it is not required under current governmental laws. About what-ef-questioning ya. I would say that it would be in some way simpler to handle the outcome of a vote that would be about wear and wear. It is easier to deal with such a vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u158	Mr. President. It must be the basis for all of us involved in politics that our word should pay as far as possible. In the elections that were finalized, it was clearly demonstrated in their leadings that very many were interested in continuing the discussion. A significant part of them belonged to the Independence Party. The prosecuting officers of the Independence Party at the time I felt that a section of the Party might subside and become an independent political entity that would even offer against them, i.e. Independence party. Under such circumstances, the chairman of the Independence Party declared that he wanted it to be a national agreement for continuation of conversation. He even went so far as to say that when he was quick to replace the party's campaign at Hotel Nordica on March 23, 2013, he said that it was more convenient for him to make such a national agreement during the first part of the term. As a result, all the major candidates, all the sharpsmen, perhaps outside one, on their lists, declared that they wanted the rest of their national pay. Is this not something to be listened to? That's when it's pointed. A senator for policy. But is it not a matter of taking a stand on the basis of what they offer in the campaign? This is how the officers interpret the policy file. Hv. A senator or some members of Congress have said that those words were not in the category's vote booklet, but I read them on the team's home page. Under these circumstances, it will be at least Be cool. It's a little difficult for a senator to have his party make promises, get people to choose the party on that basis, and then back it up the elections. [[The president calls.]] Can't you call this a betrayal?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u159	V.E.G. President. I don't recall why. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson held such a talk in the summer of 2009.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u160	Mr. President. I have to say, I'm not totally smart at that. Yeah. A senator meant. There was no need for that at that time to hold such rulership over men like me. I stuck perfectly with what I said before the election and tried to do it after the election. The leader of the Independence Party declared this. He said it was the last time. That's remarkable in all this sequence of events. Finally, in an article in the morning issue of August, he declared it. That's very important to me. I also recall that the government leaders had a career and told them when to make a decision and should be made here, but it was never taken here, because the process was never finished. A senator knows. You could also call fraud. It doesn't matter at this point. I'm gonna read this to you. A senator's word of one of his officers: ▪ Because of the large number of disagreements between groups between the nation, between the country and its capital, this will pass through families, the only way to determine who to hold now, is to ask the people. [[The president calls.]] Mano. A senator who was saying this?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u161	V.E.G. President. Because of my questions and the sneering look that came at you. When I mentioned the summer of 2009, I was referring to fatherly advice. The senator said that the presidents should keep what was foretold before elections. But I don't remember why. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Osse held such talks over his colleagues during the summer of 2009 in connection with this same matter. This was a clear statement from the left movement ◯ green supply for elections that would not be met when men sat down and began negotiating government cooperation. And, of course, the situation in this case is that before elections 2013 I don't think anyone could possibly assume that after the election a government would be formed where a clear greater proportion would be on the basis of terms, no government minister would want party talks and men to be faced with the indiscretions that I believe would be in the continuation of the political situation in such a way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u162	Madam President. I'm just gonna talk to you about the proposal. I think we can agree that this case is one of the major issues that have come to the council ever since it was stated here. Ideas and thoughts of whether Iceland is better protected inside or outside the European Union have broken both the nation and the political movements, as we have seen in the past. It has been this final loss that the majority of the people feel that we should finish the discussion from what has come and put before the nation's agreement so that they can take an informed stand. I can say for myself that it is always better to take a decision when it comes to a decision or at least adequate information so that you do not have to guess the outcome. At one time, we agreed to left green on the idea that negotiations between Iceland and the European Union would be avoided with the aim of investigating its benefits and problems that Iceland became an party to the European Union. It was, however, a prerequisite that they would never be involved without prior approval in a national law. It is fine in the context of reviewing that in February, I am reminded, the year before election was 37.6% of those they claimed to prefer left - green support, not just the member case, but 55.5% of those who wanted to vote for VG. At the same time, we know that the policy of the category is that Iceland's interests are better off on the outside than within, but it seemed at the time that the common voter did not base his decision on that decision. But it is often, so it is not necessarily heard by those who are willing to look at the situation but, like many others, that is the case with the strongest. It has not been less easy to work on a good contract and at the same time have doubts about its involvement. But we thought the democracy was stronger than the decision of any individual statesman in a matter as controversial as it seems, as I traced earlier. The present has concluded that a European Union may not be a suitable option for us Icelanders. Many of my friends in left green feel the same way, but there are others, as is the case. However, we have concluded that there is no better or more correct way to reach a decision on this great matter than a democratic and open process, where enough information is provided and that ends with a national principle. I've said it and said at one time that as a member of the council here, I believe I represent the members of my company and those who chose us, and I believe it applies to all members of the council. Of course, we do not represent ourselves merely because when we act, we present certain merits as movement or category, and we know that not everyone has the exact same opinion on all matters within the category. We cohesive in some particular place, because something's next to what's in the politics, and then we bend to more than once. Therefore, it can be said that those at the council do not agree with the application or to walk in the EU, but I believe that we are to represent them within our classes who choose that such will be done just as the others do. We left the green people with confidence to determine the outcome, and I believe that many people today are well spoken of as being on course. I believe that it would have been most natural to bring it into the nation's initial judgment, and before the discussions began, whether or not to agree on the involvement of Iceland in the European Union. The decision to make a part of the business was so big and important that a national agreement at the outset would have been appropriate and would have strengthened the case. But it wasn't done, and it wasn't to the point of leavening it now. Here we are, the members of the U.S. National Assembly of Democratic Republics, should most of us shun the democracy. We should not prevent our fellow Israelites from leading one important issue of the day to the conclusion of their votes. We are to have the courage and determination to allow the members' talks to continue as it was established and to compromise the national decision on the matter. V.E.G. President. Listening to what has been said has sometimes been a bit swallowing. Councilmen interpret the view for one another to the European Union and suggest a conclusion to the discussion. This further confirms my view that the case will not end after this discussion, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I ask myself, " Are we welcome to make a decision in matters that have not occurred? ' It works on me as a youth who knows that he will be ashamed of something and that he has given his defense in his mind as well as the parent's answers in advance. Some members of the Parliament believe that because of their special status, Iceland can be available for various special solutions, while others agree. Some senators have spent considerable energy on this task, and they gave their prophetic gift to the outcome of various matters. It may be all in a good way, but it does not lead to anything and must be directed back. The decision to complete the discussion is made only by members of the council that the only way to understand their concerns is to make a decision, and then a decision can be made on what comes out of them, not to end talks and to determine a conclusion. I believe that everyone, both members and those who do not, do not want to walk in the EU is fully aware that there is a rich interest in an Icelandic nation, but all views are right and we cannot afford to minimize the contrast between the issues and the emotions involved. A respectable president. Of course, whether the benefits of being involved are such that they rise or are motivated by righteousness or power. It has certainly been noted that no member of the European Union, now 27, believes that it is an independent or inhuman state because of its involvement, as was permitted in the discussion that took place earlier in this council. Such a decision, however, is that it can and should be made. I am fully aware that the government and its political issues have not been concealed in their belief that the European Union is not an option for Iceland, but now it is due to a national hearing promised by many of the voters, especially by the Independence Party, that they are held out because of the government's decision. I have previously quoted the Declaration of the Independence Party by permission of the President: The suicide party considers Iceland's interests to be better off outside the European Union. The voters set for national law reviews in the terms of the terms of the terms and terms of the continuation of Member States. It cannot be misunderstood, and you can ask yourself, " Is my promise merely a matter of wording or a simple misunderstanding? ' It wouldn't be the first person this government has to deal with. A respectable president. It is important that Europe's debate does not get caught up in the debates of opposing poles. It may be in an effort to see a final deal. Many have expected that in a contract there are good things to be done, even for the good, that it can be balanced with the nation's self - determination rights of a particular group. By completing the negotiation process, you can determine the benefits and failures of the existing agreement. The majority of the nation's inhabitants have a desire to finish their talks. I don't believe that we senators can say that we want or don't want until something formal is in place that can be taken into consideration. They are larger than governments or political groups, and the nation is to provide direction on what to do. A case that seems endless for discussion not only before elections but after elections, as we have repeatedly observed, must lead to a different outcome, since much of the nation is obviously not satisfied with the process that has been under way. In a democracies society, the decisions made are common. To pay only national fees when authorities believe that the decision will be acceptable to them involves a cowardly attitude toward democracy and a lack of confidence in the judgment of the people of the land.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u163	V.E.G. President. Hv. paritaprevir Bjarkey Gunnarsdóttir says that the voters of the Independence Party were the package, probably because individual members spoke of having some kind of national principle on how to handle membership talks, the continuation of partnerships. Because of these words, I'd like to ask you why. A senator, because she's been in VG for some time, would she believe that the VG voters were 2009 when all the odd sense followed and in the category's policy was not to apply for involvement in the European Union, at least but a national law. Now we know that they were applying for participation in the European Union without any national principle. I'd also like to ask why. A member of the council, whether the WGG's candidates at their time had the view that this was merely a negotiation of some kind, with nothing to do with anything but to see what the outcome would be and then could be chosen. SHOULD it not or members of that fine category of member body events come to a variety of adjustments? The law of law had to be adjusted and done, so that the discussion could continue. Was a what? paritaprevir Bjarkey Gunnarsdóttir knew about this at the time, or what was going on over his head? I'd like to have an explanation for this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u164	A respectable president. I thank the senator the answer and the question. No, I don't think voters have been loaded. At one time when a discussion of a government team was arranged for this to be one of the factors involved. It was agreed in all members of the party, and as the senator knows likely, it said that we could at all times tell us about the process, we thought it was against the country. It was also accepted on our part that there would never be anything different than that of a previous national law, and that is very important. As I also said in my speech earlier, I believe it was a mistake not to turn to the people immediately when this was done. But it doesn't mean anything to boil it, it wasn't done. In my opinion, it was a mistake and I would have wanted to go another way. But we promised a national fee, and we've always held it up, and all our institutions have resolved that once this has been discussed. We have not changed our mind since then, most of us are not walking in the European Union. But as I also noted, a considerable percentage of those who chose us or said that they would not choose us to make it their own despite even being thinking about or wanting to walk in the European Union, despite that VG was a class that would have the intention of not doing so. So it's also like I said people will find a place where they're on the most together, so it didn't seem to matter. Regarding the adjustment to the system, I realized that there would, of course, be a process of adaptation when applying... [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u165	V.E.G. President. I find it very difficult to realize that an independent party could be viewed as having met by its voters by following the course of the group that was approved at a national meeting, but I suppose this is the case. paritaprevir Bjarkey's Gunnarsdóttir's beak is that individual trickies have spoken somehow differently. [[Set up the election policy file...]] I really feel that the voters of the Independence Party have been loaded because their policy was clear, new release at a national meeting. I think it's much more important for voters when the VG has a clear heading and then it goes against them in its own time. I think it's closer to saying someone's loaded. Regarding other matters that I would also like to come, they are often referred to as negotiations, and it is democratic to see what comes out of them and then votes. I have protested for a long time, and I think it's clear to everyone that there are, of course, no permanent exceptions to basics in the European Union. It is never left behind, it has not been left behind in all the business issues involved in the other countries and those countries. I want to know why they think it's going to happen with Iceland, that we're going to have permanent replacements that have never been seen from basics. It may be possible somewhere to point out some summer house living in Denmark or something, which I doubt is a permanent release, but that humans still believe that there can be a permanent replacement in the management of the marine espionage, that we get to continue that, of course, it's crazy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u166	A respectable president. I was witnessing what independence men said, and the senator knew, much of his party brothers have come here and protested and thought they were gone. It was in the campaign book that appeared on the web, what I read earlier. We can, as it were, continue to truffle about it. But it doesn't make any difference that it wasn't just someone or some prominent or leading men, of course it was a financial and economic minister himself, and the chairman of the Independence Party, which included. A promise, so maybe in both ways. For the adaptation process or permanent release, this is a negotiation, and it's about something, something to negotiate. I can't stand here and tell you that we're going to get a permanent release, that's something I think we need to test, and there's some difference of opinion whether it's possible or not. If it turns out that when we pick up the fishing section - if we do - that's not an option, I think the people will be very comfortable with it. I can just say, like other prophets in this chamber, that I don't think it's possible. But I have no idea. And that something has not been done somewhere does not mean that it will never be done. That knows why. A senator like me. I just don't think we're gonna get rid of this thing from the bones and the national soul until we take our final stand on this matter, unfortunately, I think that's the way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u167	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I'm in a hurry to make some kind of national agreement at some point in this and a lot more. To me, this does not in itself revolve around the European Union at this point, although, of course, it is relevant to the nature of the situation, but I am very interested in it if there are any means of breaking up the discussion or continuing or what it feels really important to me, whether it is September 26, as the proposal suggests, whether the matter ends before the nation's judgment. That's why I'm very interested in any possible means by which men can accept, if they can't accept what is suggested here. I had a conversation before. paritaprevir Birgir Ármannsson's son as well. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son and again, without wanting to put any words in their mouths, I felt that I sensed hope, a weak, slight hope that they might be in favor of some sort of application of the case that would actually end in a national fee, at least under some circumstances. Then I wonder, " What is it? ' For example, a senator would consider it if he agreed to maintain a national fee with the next election, with the election's next election, or at some other time than September 26, 2015. I'd appreciate it if I did. A senator could tell me what he thinks in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u168	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. First and last, I agree with the senator that we are in general expected to increase our participation in the nation with some kind of national law. True, they may be expensive, and it may be convenient, as mentioned above, if they can be held along with other elections. Some feel that it is good and others do not like it; some feel that it is a distraction when others consider them to be helpful, and others may even move toward an ideal place. If there was an agreement between council members at the General Assembly, I would like to see this done by canceling the case on a committee, and an opinion would be made regarding when, in fact, we have experienced at this council that the council is not bound by Congress laws. I'd like to have confirmation that this would be done, not merely between the officers behind the scenes, as you say, or something like that, that it would be formalized in some way. I believe there is a need to determine this arrangement between Iceland and Europe in a democratic way, and as I told you before, it was a mistake at the time not to go to the country. I believe we should do so through informed discussion so that we will not be on the program forever. I think that takes too much time from many other important matters in the national discussion, but it has to be settled. Of course, this is a macropolitical foreign matter for the nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u169	A respectable president. I'm always happy when people come to the conclusion that they have a higher national law here in general. Sooner or later, elections will be re-elected, and the person standing here will find it extremely important that the nation's legal right to be in the foreground when it comes to elections. It has been criticized here that members of Congress decide what to do with national pay and what not to do. The question is, what do we have to eat? The senators are on the case, but not on top of it. The people. I often find the misunderstanding of politicians to direct democracy - or not necessarily any transfer of direct democracy but fundamentally national pay - is in the plot of politicians that the nation agrees with them, i.e. They are in favor of national pay when the people agree with them but are opposed to national pay when they feel that the nation disagrees with them. In this case it's a little strange because the nation is, at any rate, the polls indicate that it is opposed to the current European Union. That's why I've never completely understood why the more part doesn't just go for it and kill it. That's a question I want to come to. Senator. Here is a wake - up for many of the anti-continent members of the government, who were more than part of the previous council, on the matter of having national laws: much of the problem. A senator supports the system of things that the nation itself dictates what would go on national terms, regardless of what we think of the high Council?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u170	Madam President. I traced my talk before the cowardly way of life, which means that I dare not pay national fees unless they are convinced that the result will be theirs. Of course, this is something we should not be afraid of. We should not be afraid of democracy. We're here in democratic terms, and our viewpoints won't always be on top. I also said: "There are times when you have to submit to the greater part of your congregation or to the nation, since not all of them agree with you. I don't really want to talk about now being a conscious awakening, but I'd like to be very careful to say that there's an early state of awareness because we left green people have spoken a lot about increasing the democracies, increasing the nation's involvement. As noted in the talk of the president of the left green when she spoke for this matter today, we made a national bill for the great and highly controversial political case. A part of the country's program was conducted by a national meeting arrangement, a democratic involvement of the nation. It would have been the same with NATO, etc. In any case, I think we in the left green have put great emphasis on the approach of the nation, including the arrival of the people. in the Constitution work and so on. I have to be honest with myself that I have not, in fact, wondered about it, because we are democratically elected to the council, although we are not always the smartest and the judge of all things, whether I agree that all Congress matters will be open so that the people can always decide what matters they want to receive. On the other hand, I take much more of the nation's involvement in many matters, and I'm willing to think about it in terms of the ratio, which one is to be, and so to be less. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u171	Madam President. We here discuss one of the major issues that have sometimes divided our people and families in discussions about whether our benefit is better within or outside the European Union. Now we are at the site where we have a conquistador proposal for a national contract of 26 September 2015 to continue Iceland's Member States' affairs with the European Union. With that resolution, the presidents of the government stand and in view of all the prehistory of this case, and if you look forward to the future, I think it is very wise to agree on this proposal and to think it will cut down on a particular knot that has been in this matter. Of course, we all know the prehistoric situation, that in 2009, the then Common Government adopted the Controversies and the Left Green Parliamentary arrangement for starting member talks with the European Union. I can just admit it here as an opponent that in the European Union, we walked that it was difficult for me and others to see it coming, but it did. I did not vote by applying for involvement in the European Union at the time, but I am a democratically minded, bowing down to that conclusion of the greater part of the council, and it was not merely the members of the board who voted with that proposal. I would like to draw attention to this and give a good reason to call attention to it, as it has been shown during the discussion that the Independence Party body proposed in the summer of 2009 a proposal to make a national agreement to see if the nation wanted to apply for membership in the European Union. I voted with that suggestion. I like to see it. paritaprevir Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir joins the hall because I am now reminding the U.S. Congress that I was one of those voters who suggested an independence proposal in the summer of 2009 that we apply it to the nation in our district whether we wanted to apply. I just want to keep it up, because I feel that I don't think this case will disappear from us until we resolve it in a way that is the nation that has the last word, and I don't think it's good for us who have serious doubts that our interests are better off in the European Union to hold this matter in a sort of hostage from the nation. I have felt that as people more strongly develop the propaganda of trying to pack this matter up from the current level, it will cause the public to want to see what is available and that they want to have an opportunity to decide whether to continue the discussion and if they find out what comes out of that country and votes for it. In 2009, after the collapse, I did not feel that it was the most important thing to apply for participation in the European Union. But, of course, there are differing opinions, and I went to the democratic will, and my squad agreed at all levels in their union institutions to join with the Controversies on these grounds, considering that it was the nation that would have the last word in this great matter. I know that there are advantages and difficulties in being in the European Union. There's nothing entirely bad in that union. Many good things have come up with us as other nations because we had that cooperation, I can mention the environment there, the wake of awareness in that subject, and many other issues that would certainly not have come as far as today unless these nations had worked in that area. I can mention a number of factors that deal with labour laws and labour markets that have pressured nations to increase the rights of paymen. But I'm also very critical of things in the European Union and opposed to all the military activities that continue to exist within the Union and the fact that this has become the value of a military alliance and that its power institutions are, in fact, very right-handed. They have not addressed the difficulties of many poor countries in the wake of collapse, and it has been shown that the European Union is really capitalistic. I've been inclined to lean on the democracy in that relationship, I've felt that the sexes were equal. We see more often than no pictures from the European Commission that wear a suit into one, and then perhaps one or two women wearing a suit too, so you often do not make a distinction. There are some things that I don't feel can cry out for. I have also been critical of handing over our power, our small nation, to this overwhelming authority, and I think it will be very difficult to keep a democratic awakening among the people when decision - making takes on so many major matters will be so far away from us. And we who live in the countryside, which often feels that the city power of Reykjavík and the capital have swallowed up many things in the vicinity of the country, each with horrors, if the power moves further away from us and under the control of the EU. But, of course, all of that will be discussed, the benefits and weaknesses of EU Member States at the right time. Hence, the process needs to be considered, since the nation itself can take an informed discussion of the rest. Therefore, I view the proposal presented here that the nation is allowed to vote for continued discussions with the EU, in fact, as a very good suggestion for us who have made up our minds and are opposed to entry into the EU because it is such a democratic approach. There is also the possibility of ending the case, either way it goes. I think there's a greater chance that this case will end with the people choosing to be outside the European Union if we take this journey now and do not draw it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u172	Madam President. I'd like to pick up the thread where it went. A senator concluded his case. The country does not want to enter the European Union, but they want to vote for national law on whether or not we should continue with Member State negotiations. I agree with the senator that it would be most successful for us who do not want to enter the European Union. I'm sure our leaders are not all the same, but it's my premise to at least cost them, considering what I know about the European Union today and the administrative arrangement there, that it seems to me to be a force-compression, the cause has come from far-out of the population than in Iceland. It's hard to change the system here, but it's still possible to do so. We got close in the last term to get a new constitution. This strong demand for greater democracy, for the greater participation in the public we are discussing today, will just continue to increase. Under the Enlightenment Revolution, people have begun to adopt these values by sharing in society and community media, and those values will only continue to grow stronger. I also believe that a system change towards democracy is easier in Iceland than in a big coalition like the European Union. That's my basis for believing that we're better off outside the relationship than we are inside it. The Independence Party announced an election in its campaign policy that it considered our interests to be better off outside the European Union than within but promised that the nation would make a decision in terms of national negotiations with the EU. This is what the voters were promised. How does the senator feel about that?... [[The president calls.]] What are the advantages of a... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u173	Madam President. Yes, I think the Independence Party will regret not having kept this promise, that he will quite trouble himself in his hands for not having done it. It seems that by failing to keep the promise, there could be another category next to the Independence category, with the goal of trying to establish agreements with the European Union and thereafter. Is that better? Hardly represent a group of people who feel that their interests are better off outside the European Union. I believe that by this fence and by thinking that this case can be pushed somehow away from the people and kept in a chest, people are bringing in a great amount of anger and hostility from the people who, like the wind. A senator came on, prefers, in many respects, to be more involved in that environment and to make decisions just the same as before. I think there's something you have to look forward to and look into what the young people want today. It is not acceptable to have an opportunity to have such a big deal about their future. Any informed discussion followed by such a process that we are in, and can't go back to feeling I must continue, and the last word must be allowed to be made. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u174	Madam President. I think the Independence Party really needs to look at what's strategical on this case. Like what? A senator mentions them as another group on the weight of a weight - bearing team, which could result in the death of an independent party of about 1 percent. The independent party is now measuring about 25%. He's been in it for the season between 25 and 30%, something like that. That is, naturally, far from where the class has been included in a historical context of about 40%. Styrmir Gunnarsson wrote an article entitled 'How to Understand Martyr's Choice, where he called for the party to realize that he would have to adopt policies that are important for young people and for people in general who are involved in this new revolution that is the information revolution today. In the fall of the year, the independence party really needs to check whether it's not a good idea to go through the way that the pointlists promised in their last elections to go to national votes, finish this case... get the people to say no, finish this case, be able to keep it off the table for ten, fifteen years. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u175	Madam President. I don't think it's a question that if you want this case to end, they'll have to take the nation this way to a democratic field. This is a test of the democratic will of the party today. Secular democracy is something that people often flaunt at times, but when it comes to showing it by allowing the nation to, giving it a place of such great and controversialness, it often becomeslittle. Some say that this matter was crucial to the nation's interests, and others say that it can be responsible for the society we live in today and the right to our resources, seas, and large sectors, such as agriculture. Are we not entitled to this decision as a nation and a community?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u176	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. There were some things I wanted her to react to. I know that time is short, so I may narrow it down a little, but I think this discussion and approach of the left movement is interesting. It is, in effect, saying that the movement is deciding to look into the methodology of decision making, to make it work again, i.e. that the democratic approach will go beyond the material position of the party if I understand correctly. There is an interesting view of the matter, I believe, and I believe we should do this on other matters where it is easy to see that the council is not able to handle many major tasks. The composition here and also the dense network of stakeholders, which, in many respects, can prevent us from making decisions on large issues, including this. A great deal of debate has been made here in connection with the European Union, that it was started badly, and forced by members of Congress to take sides against their own convictions during the last term. Now I'd like to ask you what. A senator, who was a member of our team during the last term, the left movement ◯ green campaign, and chose against this decision: Was she pressured to do so in some way? Of course, this discussion is completely intolerable on the part of those who practice it when the fact is that votes fell in various ways.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u177	Madam President. Of course, it was a burning case in its own time. Fortunately, I was not pressured to vote against this, but it was then my sense of justice and conviction that forced me to do so. I did it voluntarily but normally, in such a big deal, it was over and over. Syllabics fell in various ways, and government opposers also voted. It was just, as I said, the resolution of the council that I passed by as a democracy. I deeply appreciated that present - day government work, and so it is only with politicians that they have to make a decision at various levels. If they can't, and they're always in the rearview mirror, I don't think they're real politicians. Sometimes a sweet one needs to be taken sour. That's just the way it is in life and politics too. Methodology and whatever. A senator mentioned - I am very proud that my squad has taken their stand to let the democracy take over. People have often talked about these possibilities and how we can make agreements that we ourselves do not recommend. But what happens, for example, in collective agreements? The decision is reached, and union presidents are not necessarily 100% satisfied. Is it not their job to present the contracts for their members and leave the last word to them? Similarly, I believe that we politicians are required to lay this big case before the nation and let it have the last word.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u178	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for recalling here and mentioning the great possibility of being a member of the case. I believe that those who declare such a statement that it is impossible to comply with the national democratic conclusions unless they agree with them do not have business for the Minister's chair. It's just that way. As Ministers, men should be able to work professionally and work according to the approved practices of the Council, and in this case the majority of the nation's will would be involved. It's just that way. There is no way that humans are professional and so go to work, not at all. I think all talk about impossibles to describe is something other than the reality that exists in the case of the nation. There is no way that, in my opinion, the nation can take sides and then we can work it out.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u179	Madam President. If the impossible exists in such a way that it is the people that differs from the politicians who are at one time in power, must it not be involved in the election that the greater proportion of the people who want something other than their established government choose and get their will? Inevitability will then be only temporary. In time, voters will express their will in a vote. I think groups like the Independence Party should now think about it if they want their good way. I may not be so worried about the future of the Independence Party, but I think he could face a split-up that could hardly benefit that group.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u180	V.E.G. President. I can speak for myself by thinking that national pay can be for the greater good. However, I insist that the results of such a national payment have some significance, have some value, can lead to a conclusion. If we look at this synonym, it will deal with a national agreement on the continuation of discussions about the involvement of Iceland in the European Union. Let us now say that it goes forward, and the conclusion will be to continue our discussion. We all agree on that, and we've done so many times past the government side also, that if we don't get full control of the sea resources, there's nothing to negotiate. However, the conclusion of the national law is to continue a discussion that means that we cannot stop because we are not allowed to control the resource. That is why a national execution of this kind is unremarkable to me. It can never lead to a decision. I want to know what I'm thinking. paritaprevir In this regard, the Lilja Rafney Islands Magnúsdóttir: What happens, what should we do, after deciding to continue our discussion when we are left out of power over the sea resource? On the other subject, I would like to ask, too, for the reason. A senator is so concerned about democracy and the Independence Party. [[LMR: Independence Party.]] What was it like when VG decided to apply, despite its policy, and despite a clear promise not to do so without a national law, what was the situation? A senator then agree to apply? She wasn't worried about the democracy back then.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u181	Madam President. I can totally guide you. A senator would consider what the next step would be in this matter. If they were to agree on such national pay to continue their discussions and for two years to be held in the election, then they should try to complete the opening of these great and most difficult chapters, sea fishing, and agricultural affairs. I can see that there might be six months before the next election, and then there's the rest of the nation in democratic elections. If the people would agree to such a deal, they would support such classes. Well, that's just the way it is. There are no eternal government groups, neither the Independence Party nor any other categories. It would be by then that the people would express their desire that their interests were better off there. If there were to be a change in the way the nation would reject continued business affairs, they could be sure that this case would be set aside. Is it not good just to get some conclusions on such matters rather than to be snooping around forever like a corpse on the train and making much more of the effort to try on the European Union and actually create a thrill for entering it? You're just fanning out the flames. I'll answer the question about VG in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u182	V.E.G. President. I didn't quite get that answer. I'm just wondering: I, I'm a member of the government, have been approved by national law to continue the business affairs. What does that mean? Then it means I have to finish them. Then I'd like to negotiate with - No, we've agreed to continue the discussion. [[The point is: You can stop if it's unacceptable.]] Then I can't decide to stop at some point. [[Taken out of:...targets are dominant.]] No, the national agreement is about this. The Congress resolution is on this very matter. Therefore, I say, I must negotiate with the European Union, the government, that they can gain control over the resource. Then I am responsible for such an agreement and then subject to the nation. Is that what we're talking about? That's what I see as impossible. That is why I use the term "uncanny " when the synonym is used in this way. It would be wise to ask, " Should I stop talking or not, bad things too? '
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u183	V.E.G. President. I don't think there's a chance in this case, and undertook a Senate resolution with goals that had to be met so that it would go on. We know that. Hv. A senator also knows as a lawyer that lawyers will protect individuals whether they become guilty or innocent. That's the impossible in the work of lawyers in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u184	It's always hard.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u185	There are many challenges in life, however, that humans have to face. Senator. Regarding VG, and whether it is difficult to face up to this parting discussion, I say: I and my other associates went through the developing democracies to take the steps with our people. [[The president calls.]] When VG party council and platoon administration agreed to enter the government on this basis, the whole route was protected by our platoons' approval. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u186	A respectable president. The Conspiracy proposal under consideration is quite unique. I would in the beginning of my speech only do so, i.e. The form. Here is a synopsis proposal for a national agreement on whether or not to continue the affairs of the matter, as they say, should be continued. In fact, in March this year the Icelandic government has sent a letter stating that Iceland will no longer be regarded as an applicant. In view of that, I thought that it was the form of the synonym because of the wording in it, just because it was used it, that it was not handled for the release of this council. It's just not in line with reality. Keep on what? The interview is over, and what's more, the Icelandic government has specifically insisted that Iceland is no longer an applicant state. When for that reason the proposal is clear. It is reasonable to expect that this point will especially be discussed in this regard. A foreign matter committee that's being discussed. On the other hand, what is the concept of the controversies in a material way? In this light and in the light of reality, I would have thought more closely for amateur members of the European Union to submit a synonym, e.g. to initiate negotiations and then with some kind of subsidiary on terms or objectives. On the other hand, it would most often have been that these amateurs of Iceland's membership that the European Union had been honest and committed a Senate hearing or a legal bill, taking over all the administrative doubts about the value of the Council's position in the matter, to hide the government from applying for membership in the EU in the exception of the National Convention on Member States. I'm pointing out that if Iceland's situation is unclear to the EU lately, this council proposal will not shed any light on that position unless it does not. Why is the proposal not clear to the door, but with the positive addition now being held to the National Re-Election Protocol for Member States in 2009? It is right to welcome the information that has been given on national pay on the basis of EU application, in any case, I rejoice because, in all cases, people generally seem to agree on the contrary to all categories that it is normal to ask the nation's opinion before applying for membership or membership events continue, if they wish to interpret it. But, of course, I think that the people who did not, at all, do not agree with the application in 2009, have come to feel this way, and these same people are very interested in receiving the guidance of the people on the case. But why would it be that men did not submit a synopsis proposal or a legal bill for application to the European Union today or at this council? I think the answer is obvious. This is because these same representatives of the proposal are unable to do so. They cannot offer a proposal as a song to conclude that Iceland is guilty of membership because there are not all members of the Parliament's arrangement to support the opinion that Iceland should join the European Union. Therefore, they cannot propose a synonym which would be much more correlated with what the synonym may involve materially, an application for involvement in the European Union. There seems to be a group of people, at least Here at an assembly, which considers the negotiations of some kind of objective in itself. It has become some political debates. Senators have business affairs. The same people do not have the goal of walking in the European Union. It just wants to be in the meeting. That's a new one. Parts of these people even have their policy list of off-limits in the European Union, but it is still a challenge to be in the Member States. This is a new reality, we do not know from the past, and it will be interesting to observe the election of these classes or politicians next. ... [[Up front.]] No, I'm not interested in walking in the European Union, but I am stressing that we are in a business situation. [[Up front.]] Any makeup playwright would be completely out of harmony with the play and the play offered here for the nation. Of course, it's just a farce. [[The president calls.]] A person walks down the street of a bag or in any way unappreciative, walks into a restaurant, sits there at a table, receives a menu, makes a dooze, perhaps eats the bread that is free and drinks the water from the tubes, goes out. No, it was never meant to eat, I'm not hungry. I just wanted to check out the menu, I just wanted to think about it, went about it. Of course, it's a farce, and it's not acceptable. Those who have taken up the task of leading the nation's large policy have the opinion of who to think of - of course, this is not acceptable. It is a farce, complete makeup, a drama designed for the people under the pretext that they are being met to their will. The politicians here, democratic elected agents, will just give it up after not having opinions about things anymore. The nation's guidance on the case is to be in contact with, but it is not to enter, and the outcome is never to be answered. A respectable president. In March, a foreign minister sent a letter as I mentioned at the beginning of my letter to the European Union. It must be held that this letter was written after the government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir to stop the discussion. It was a former government that stopped the talks during the last term. That government put the case on ice, and those who stopped the talks during the last term appear here shamelessly and put forth a pact that would turn it up to the current government to finish the case, which they had all the authority to finish if they had wanted it, four years. It is to be turned up on the present government. Finally, I want to conclude that the Council's Reunion proposal is out of print, that includes a lack of structure, such as a previous council proposal and is really an disrespect to Icelandic government organization. The changes in the constitution are to be considered below before a discussion with the European Union. Don't people want to do that first? It is not a matter of human interest to conclude that there are hundreds of millions of people who are able to cross over in the European Union before they begin to have business discussions with the European Union. K. without any record in the constitution? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u187	Madam President. Whether the Senate arrangement is held by Congress, these are interesting points and interesting. A senator mentions. The answer is probably yes. Parliamentary rules can be proposed even if they, if approved, are not in conflict with something else. Then a minister would not be obliged to enforce them. It seems to me that after I've been keeping track of matters at the council in terms of a concierge proposal. Looks like she's a connoisseur. You can put all kinds of crap here at the General Assembly, and if you vote, they simply sit there with that nonsense and spit an egg on your face. So it seems to be a connoisseur. Hv. A senator says that the discussion has actually ended, but it is not necessarily certain, the European Union does not want to mean it. A minister had many experiences about this. He starts by saying, "Yes, you can think of it as... And then, no, we're not done. And then, yes, we've already broken -- well, it doesn't matter which words you use, etc. It may be helpful to listen to what the president of the Parliament said on this matter when discussing this exact form; now the senator discussed shapes. In this hearing, the chairman of the council said that the letter of the minister of foreign affairs is a diplomatic method for making the decision of the matter end without formal deduction. It is the evaluation of a president and many others that it has not been formally withdrawn. They are trying to get the European Union to do so. It really doesn't seem that we've finished these talks. In fact, the council arrangement was held as such, although it was not said to begin the discussion again, it seems that the discussion has not yet been terminated.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u188	A respectable president. I just don't care about who the European Union thinks is Iceland's position.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u189	But the President of the Generals.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u190	A letter has been sent to the European Union, the Icelandic government has sent a letter stating that Iceland is no longer an application state and that just enough, that is Iceland's attitude. As far as the European Union is concerned, it will do with that letter or what it does in its documentcase, it will only have nothing to do with me, and it should not be of particular concern to the council. It will be surprising, though, to say the least, if the European Union is inclined to accept this letter in some way. It's naturally very strange. I mentioned a technical fault on this council resolution. I realize that men can make a point, like hell. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson brings it up, a lot of confusion, and I think I can say that this case is not the first case of such a nature and definitely not the last. This, however, does not change the fact that this must result in a serious decision. The State Department of State Whether the Committee itself does not suggest that the case be dismissed or rejected by individual members. I've thought of doing that. You're just so modern and open - minded that you want to pay for all the discussions and votes. It may be good for this subject to be in votes as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u191	Madam President. Then I'd like to go to what appears on the Independence Party policy list before elections. It shows that the Independence Party considers Iceland's interests to be better off outside the European Union than inside. However, it also says: 'Nation makes a decision to agree with the EU Member States on national terms during the terms of the election.' It is also the same as the class's pointy minds, many of them, foretold the elections. I'd like to ask the senator if it's his conviction to fulfill those election promises and to keep the votes that are given. At the same time, I'd like to point out to the senator that the search card, etc. It's a good image, but it's only that far. Contracts, like what's wrong. I'm sure the senator knows, is that you're checking to see if any contracts are made, you're going into a contract to see if any contracts are made. What did this process of negotiation mean? This process of negotiation also meant a process of adaptation. It wasn't just an application procedure. In the application procedure, the negotiation process, the adaptation process, and not only adjustment to the EEA legislation, but also to the EU legislation. Therefore, national law should have been paid before this process was started. This was a big, expensive process that meant that the European Community legislation was being adapted to EU legislation. That is what is being called out here, and the nation calls for the opportunity to choose a future member discussion, the nation calling for it. The people also claim that they do not want to go to the European Union. I think the Independence Party really needs to think if it's not any more reasonable, because it can be losing its focus, if a new group of carriers gets to the bottom. I don't know what it can cost, but it can mean a lot to the Independence Party not to fulfill this campaign and make it a big deal in the next election. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] They're supposed to finish this case, take it for the nation, pay it national fees, finish our contracts, complete national regulations, and say, "No." [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u192	A respectable president. I see I've got to get to the soft side of the dog. A senator because he speaks on behalf of the people, he knows national will, and according to him, he wants only one. In fact, the national will is deemed urgent to vote for continued communication with the Member States. In this connection, I'd like to call attention to a new poll that was introduced this week, the day before yesterday. It asks if the relevant responders want Iceland to remain an applicant country of the EU. The results from this study are that only 41.6% of the population in Iceland is still an applicant country in the EU. All others want Iceland to be not an applicant country that the EU and 15.9% did not take sides. [[What poll?]] This is a study of the journal And State, carried out by a MMR, polling company, for those concerned with national willingness and surveys. I'm not going to suggest that men run after polls, not at all, or overweight polls. But I've had a feeling. Jón Ólafsson, who answered earlier, along with other members of the council, spoke a little strangely about the national will in this regard. Men are a little out of control, if I may say so, in their interpretation of the national will. On the other hand, in terms of the election for the Independence Party, I would like to say that I have never given up that position or promised the national law on the Member State's negotiations as such and is not bound by the promises of other humans, individual candidates.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u193	A respectable president. I'm a little confused about exactly where to begin, I thought it wasn't appropriate, so not to be used stronger words, how to act. A senator spoke about democracy and all its features. Hv. A senator mentioned that this letter was the highest. The minister of foreign affairs would have been sent to consider the discussion to be over. It rhymes with what was planned for the highest. Secretary of state at that time, but all of this has been the most disgusting of matters we know. Also appears to be the driving force. A senator does not give anything for the nation's very clear will. A proposal was made by the government during the last assembly. It was 53,555 people who signed a meeting to settle the case in a national law. There are 22.5% more ideal people. Hv. A senator also noted that the proposal for action was offensive to Icelandic government. I think it's so ironic that I think it's really funny, considering the size. The minister of state and the government have organized Icelandic governments. Whether we view the promises of the Independence Party or of the Agency, the signing, the polls, or the Senate itself - the way to end the discussion in the highest order. The minister of the State tried to do so with this letter is completely incorrigibly with no exception. And I wonder what it's like. A senator would want to see his national will.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u194	A respectable president. What I mentioned about the European Commission was merely to point out that everyone agrees that Iceland's Constitution is going to need to be changed in the European Union. It must be the first mission of amateurs on the entrance into Iceland in the European Union to settle that matter. That must be what people do. The Constitution must be respected by humans to see how it provides a home for Member States. It's just what I pointed out here, if that's a question. A senator, I didn't realize that he was asking it out in particular, or if there was any other point under it. Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson had no other question.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u195	How would you like to examine your national will, ask the people?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u196	- Yes, it is quite clear that it must be necessary, and I think crosscholeic is an agreement -- I think it was and so is now, although the representatives of the proposal for the discussion have been so unfashionable in their contribution - asking the people if they want to go into business with the European Union. That is what humans were to do during the last term. It wasn't done. And we don't agree, then. A senator and I, that the synoptic proposal and tour that took place during the last term were incorrigibly? Can we not agree that she was insensitive? And if we agree on that, is that not the right thing to do?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u197	A respectable president. It was the highest. Minister Bjarni Benediktsson, then a senator, who proposed a fine adjustment to the Senate arrangement originally proposed for an EU application to bring the case into the judgment of the nation. One of them. The members of the council, then as the present, who voted with the suggestion, were my coworker Birgitta Jónsdóttir. 12th p.m. Southwestern District. This is precisely because the situation is in the people's home. Yeah, all right. But now it is clear that the people want to choose. And again: No matter what standard is used. If we follow the parties of the last election, we must aim for elections; according to that, the nation wants a national vote. If we make the polls, then according to them, the nation wants a national vote. If we're looking for signatures - and then I wondered, " How extreme the high Council would be when the decision to make a case should be made? ' Then I wonder, " Isn't 22.5% a bit high a standard? ' A lot of people talk about 10%, even less. Hv. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Sigurjónjarsson speaks of 2%, which I love very much, and I look forward to discussing it better later. But when 22.5% fails, what good will it do? If this is not part of a national law, what do we owe to our country? It doesn't matter what standard we use. It's an act of character. A senator defended here in a pita--then I mean conduct of the highest. Secretary of State, this message, knowing, apparently, that he would not bring it through the council, knowing that it seems that the nation would never vote in accordance with his own opinion, he would do it on his own, he would do it on his own knowing that it is contrary to all democratic processes all over, elections, national fees, polls, nothing. I wonder what's wrong. A senator would settle this matter, as it is here, in some kind of democratic way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u198	A respectable president. I think that's what we're talking about. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson misjudged me or my stand on this matter. We totally agree on that, though. A senator and me, the Iceland environment of the European Union, will not be triggered and will not continue if, if one chooses to view them as still active, without a national law on it. That's for sure. Therefore, in my speech, I asked why members of the Parliament's resolution proposal had not rather proposed a synopsis on the entrance of Iceland in the European Union, on member talks. Why wasn't it arranged for the council? I know the answer. Because it would have been so that some council members would not have voted for it. It's just that way. But we agree on that, right? A senator and I, we need to ask the people on this matter. This was not done in 2009, and it will not be continued on the basis of a synonym, which was implemented in such an irreverent manner; it will not be continued by this government. That's for sure.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u199	A respectable president. We're here going to discuss a proposal for a resolution on national law on the involvement of Iceland and the continuation of discussions with the European Union. Much has been said about this proposal, and it is clear that in this matter, there are differences of viewpoints, not just in a Senate hall, but in and out of society. It is those who believe that they will not complete partnerships with the European Union, receive this contract, provide it for the nation in a national bill of approval or demonstration, and the others who believe that they are having a break-up with the European Union, and do not share it with the nation. There is also the group who would like to participate in the decision to complete a discussion and have been submitted a signing list, where members of Congress are challenged to grant that request. It is also clear that the government and more part of Congress groups and groups feel that the nation is a better city outside the European Union than within and does not intend to continue their discussions with the European Union. Still, the same ones said in favor of an election that the nation was to reach that goal. In the Treaty's Treaty the Foreign Party and the Independence Party simply stands, by permission of the president: The European Union member countries will be interrupted and the assessment of the situation and the development of existing issues within the Union will be performed. This will be taken up before the Council for a discussion and an introduction to the nation. It's not to be stressed, Mr. President - ◯must continue further in the EU Member States unless it is replaced by a national law. This is in the covenant of the government of the independence party and the forwarding class. Nowhere in the government covenant is it said that the nation should be stopped without the presence of its people or that there should be no more talk in general but that it should be kept only after its national pay. This is a clear, dignified president, and should be made clear to all of the candidates of the Future Party and the Independence Party. This is the government covenant, and it is put in this way. However, it is equally clear, a respected president, that in these two categories, people are affected. We independence have been able to deal with this debate in many of the national conventions, such as many other important issues. I'm aware, and there's nothing to tell me many times, that during the Independence Party meeting, I am in part reminded of my belief in completing the European Union partnership and presenting the contract to the nation. But I am also convinced that many liberal right men agree with me, both inside and outside. In view of the many times in my company and the 2013 elections, I have been put on the neck for the opinion I have in this case and kept it stressful, I'd like to say that before the 2013 elections, independent members of the Southwestern district gave me a 2nd class course in the re-election of the category, knowing that I had my opinion on this important matter. So I think that when I speak in Europe and I think that I'm not going out of line with my campaign promise to the voters of the Independence Party and I've never done and will not. V.E.G. President. During the last assembly a report was submitted where I could find a great deal that supported my decision and my conviction that a discussion with the European Union should be concluded and that the contract should be signed under the nation. However, I am just as sure that this report also contained factors that support the opinion of those who oppose Member States and entry into the European Union. All this discussion and even today it is claimed that there are no exceptions and special solutions found in the European Union for any nation. Yet, it is possible to point out, and many countries know that there have been leaveovers, special solutions, or what words you would like to use. Dana's special solution to property has been given. I personally mentioned in the discussion of these intricate reports two episodes in the Iceland Islands, which are very helpful. First, the right to purchase and own real estates in the Island Islands holds its value, as it was on January 1, 1994. That means that the basic premise is that in order to have real estate in the Iceland Islands, you have to have a citizenship right there. It's an exception, a respectable president, who's still standing. Second, according to Regulation No. 77/88/EEEG, meaning that the islands are outside EU tax areas and including tax and tax-free products are being sold on the market and on the flight between the islands and the EU. Why? Yes, because these shipping are vital for the economy of Icelanders. When you find such permanent provisions that are directly related and essential for the economy of individual countries, I believe that the unique status of the sea route in Iceland and that have been respected in the Icelandic economy since the age of many centuries by contracts with the European Union. It has also been discussed in this all - out discussion that our nation's sovereignty is being threatened. In view of the fact that I cannot see that the sovereignty of other nations in the European Union has been threatened, I will not be surprised at this discussion. I do not view national powers of Germany, France, Britain, the Netherlands, Belgium, and other countries as being threatened by them in the European Union. However, we are already, with our involvement in the EEA, to hand over a specific power by the orders and actions we take, but I believe that our sovereignty is not threatened, but we are in cooperation and cooperation with other countries, cooperation and cooperation that are important in the United States. A respectable president. Finally. It's quite remarkable in all such discussions about such big issues as this that the nation will always be a special waste for us, for those who want to break up the discussion and for those who want to continue with it. At that time, the nation will grow to be among those to whom each group can refer. It is in my mind no matter how difficult or heavy the project is, there is a need to settle the issues involved in business discussions with the European Union, entry into the European Union, whether to complete talks, not to break up talks, or to continue with them. A respectable president. In 2009, I voted with a double vote, a national vote, on the other hand, to be subject to the nation's whether or not to begin a business discussion with the European Union and, on the other hand, a contract should be made when it was prepared for the national due to be turned or approved. I still feel the same way that we should ask the people if they think we, Icelanders, should continue the discussion or not. They, the people whom we so often and would like to refer to, will be in charge of this important matter. We're members of the National Committee. We represent the nation. We represent different groups of society. We also represent different groups, but we are first and last members of the nation. When it comes to this matter, and as it was in 2009, we as members of Congress are expected to have the courage to take the case into the hands of the people.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u200	Madam President. I hope that's what this is all about. paritaprevir Ragnheiður's Ríkharðsdóttir Ragnhes is heard well within the Independence Party. The fact is, we are faced with an information technology revolution in which people participate in the community talk, they are involved in politics, they are involved in making decisions. People no longer accept simply to make decisions about the government every four years, they clearly don't, they want more, but they want a great deal more of the population, around 80% more national regulations. This is obviously such a case that people want to vote for. People want national pay, even if they don't want to join the European Union. Even if they do not necessarily want to continue the negotiations, they still want to choose whether we will continue with them. Like what? A senator rightly says, in his contract, by permission of a president: The European Union will be interrupted by Iceland's Member States. So says a little lower, by permission of a president: The EU Member State will not be held any further unless it is after the national directive. It was said that there would be a pause, not that the discussion would be terminated, but that there would be a break. It is a promise after the election in the government covenant made by the chairs, that it is said not to be interrupted. And people can try to make a phrase: 'We're going to take a break, we can't wear a wear, but comen, that's just a perfect phrase. It was said that there was to be a recession and not a discussion to continue unless it was paid nationally. So I hope that's what I'm saying. paritaprevir Ragnheiður's Ríkharðsdóttir Ragnhes is heard well within the Independence Party. The information revolution has come to be. This means that there will be more smaller groups, and the Independence Party will need to be serious to think that it will cost them several percentages if one category grows because of the dissatisfaction of another class. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u201	A respectable president. The truth is, I don't know exactly how to answer back. paritaprevir Jón Þór, son of Ólafsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u202	It was more of a counterargument.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u203	Yes, it could, in effect, be put. A senator himself says, it may have been rather an answer. I explained earlier that I had felt this way and that it had always been known to men in my class. My team members, both those who are opposed to member relationships with the European Union and those who share my opinion, have been aware of this for a long time. Nevertheless, I've got a track crew within my party to work for the Independence Party at the Allied Parliament. I will continue to speak in the kind of creature I've always done. In the end, there may be others who agree on the methodology. I'm not gonna make the shoes that someone's gonna have things different just to be back. A respectable president. Just as I believe that I have been consistent with my words in this matter all along, those who are opposed to the parties must also be parties to themselves. I don't share their opinion. I respect it, but I expect the same thing also that I think it is respected. She's always been in the way. But surely I wish that we would have the wisdom to bring this matter to its end because in this case the person of importance is the people.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u204	Madam President. I'd like to take the democracy king for a moment. A senator talks about it. Now there's been a lot of criticism to the national law that they're so damn expensive that we can't afford them. 300 million? No, there's now a lot to do for 300 million, we can't afford it at all. For example, we don't put a merit tax on salmon fishing, fishing in Iceland. That's two billion bucks. tax stock. If we moved to the lower tax rate, we would obtain money that would be high in the national pay, perhaps we could hold three national fees in the terms of that coin. But if we move the fence to the higher tax levels, we could keep our national fees every year and more. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether she is not in favor of combating it from within her company. I've talked to a lot of independents, and they say, "Yes, yes, they are about to do this, it's going to be done, it's going to be done, it's going to be done, it's going to be done, it's going to be done, it's going to be done, it's going to be done. I just want to keep these factors involved in the discussion about democracy. If we can't afford a national tax that costs 300 million dollars, we can't afford to collect taxes that are now cut off because of some kind of the right to close and thus make the tax system more efficient. That's one of the things mentioned was already changing the value tax, i.e. to reduce the gap between the steps and to reduce the number of leftovers. When you buy a hunting permit to catch rivers, it's not real estate, it's the Šloophole. It can be shut down. This righteous tax can be collected at the market, and we can keep our national fees every year. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Parliament whether he is in favor of general pressured in his company and in his administrative work and in the same way that we have more national pay. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u205	A respectable president. I must now admit that I am not prepared to decide here and now that some special tax will be imposed in order to maintain national pay. In my mind, national pay is much more than simply linking them with some special tax or taxing to some special occupation or to some particular factor. We need to watch that there are now some changes in society that call for it, whether we, young or old, like it better or worse, that people want more access to matters that are important to them, more available than merely to get involved in community affairs every four years, whether in the elections for government or general elections. People have the wish that their arrival will be different from that of the world around them. Our community is simply becoming like many other communities. Then, as members of the National Assembly, we need to ask ourselves, " How will I meet my fellow citizens in that regard? ' Because of what? Marty's members are concerned about the Internet and other factors there, if I would suggest that electronic elections such as this could be part of the process we're talking about here. There is no need to set up reelections around the country and call out people in one place to vote. We could discuss matters in other ways, thus taking a stand on various and more cases of electronic elections. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u206	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for her speech. I think it matters that she is not alone in her group. She speaks for a group of people who may not have had much audience in the past, and that is what I would like to do as a talker. All political groups have a specific history of the European Union. In fact, at a January 2009 meeting, when the current prime minister was elected president, the convention was once in charge of membership. Since then, that group has changed their mind and gone completely the other way. The Conspiracy, that's a story everyone knows. We had a full-scale vote, to remind me of 2001 rather than 2002, where it was adopted in a total bill within the category. VG has always been at the convention, and then it's the Independence Party. I'm a little surprised at how hard men there are going right now in the matter of reaching the conclusion of shutting and breaking. I would love to hear from it. A senator's opinion of such things is that during the campaign it was said that this matter should be given votes among the people. In the government covenant, like what? A senator mentioned, not a wearout, but a recess, etc. that there is no talk of walking as hard as humans have tried to do in recent years. I'm asking why. In view of the fact that the Independence Party has often been the color of envy by other political powers for achieving a certain broad order, there are many different viewpoints, including the European language: What is it now that motivates the leading of the Independence Party to take such a firm stand on the matter, apparently unnecessary?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u207	A respectable president. As I mentioned in my speech, the National Assembly of Independence, which usually appoints some 2,000 representatives, has concluded more than once and more that Iceland is better off than within the European Union. However, there have been many detailed discussions, as well as those of other platoons, within the great crowd. There is a group of independent Europeans in the Independence Party. This discussion has long been under way. I can't really answer a question. Senator. I'd like to be able to discern why we choose the path we choose today, but it's bound to the conclusion that our national meetings have concluded as much as I do. Perhaps we want to sharpen the emphasis of a new offer from the right men and send a clear message to the right: You people who disagree in this matter need to think about movement. I've thought about it all the time, but I don't realize it. As I said before, I know there is a large group of liberal right men who share my opinion. Some of them are still within the Independence Party, others have gone, then they are simply liberal right men who have chosen other classes. It's in itself a matter of thought for my party and will be the rest of the term and for the next election. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u208	I want to thank you. A senator for her answers. What has often been the strength of the Independence Party is just this width and space. It has not been stated in the approved category that these discussions should be directly terminated but there has been a pause, it has been said that despite this democratic process, the sect is opposed to membership, etc. But the hard work I have not seen approved or written. I'm asking why. A senator of this because I thought about it and also because there's a lot of movement to follow, and quite clear that the Independence Party, or the past at least, seems to have decided to disappear from being a broad or broad point of view and to take a firm stand on certain matters. You can also see how difficult it is to resist certain individuals who discuss these matters in a public field. That makes me think about it, which means changes are becoming part of the Tribal and the political landscape. It'll be interesting to see where it leads. A respectable president. I'd like to finally ask you what. A senator as to what it feels will cause them to repent in the Independence Party from the last term until now they feel that they cannot agree to ask the people this question now while they were ready to ask the people before they left for 2009. What argument do you think is why? Because, unfortunately, not many members of the council have spoken in this matter. [[The president calls.]] I'd love to know who she thinks she is.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u209	A respectable president. I hope that the strength of the Independence Party will remain that there are differing opinions on individual matters. That's what it is, like what's wrong. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir mentioned, who has organized the group into a series so far. It is my wish and hope that the Independence Party will keep it wide and that within it there will be space for different opinions in this matter as well as for many others. It is evident, however, that society's revolution, and we can go back to collapse, has also made people assess and look to politics in many ways that they did in the past. It's not as bound to their category as it was 10, 15, 20 years ago, I'm not talking about any longer. People choose individual groups, even individuals, to follow their own ways. Many surveys have shown that people expect politicians, as well as other prominent members of the community, to keep their word and to be honest and trustworthy. I think it's a guide that all political parties need to consider within their institutions. It is the value that honesty and faith are important and that others believe in you and in you. Anything else is going to happen if it's not there.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u210	I am here in my second speech to address the material aspects of the EU and as a means of repeating the most important things of all, and that is democracy itself. I'd like to recall the lead in that we'll sit here and stand and talk about this. During the last term, you applied for participation in the European Union. All right. Then there was the 2013 General election. At that time, however, the two government groups, the Independence Party, gave a more decisive witness to keep the national law on continued discussions with the EU. What quickly caught sight of the campaign was the way men spoke the promise. They said it specifically so that it could be interpreted in two ways. When asked directly if they wanted to keep a national law, they said yes, "Bjarni the son of Benediktsson, the son of Benedict. " The minister of finance said yes, as famous as it has become, and the same speech was being heard from the forward - looking group when people were asked directly. The dressers must vote for the Generals according to what the parties proclaim for elections. It's one of the faults of the representative democracy. As a result, we should view this as a big deal when those promises are betrayed, especially when they do, because they do not want to do what they promise, rather than if they cannot, which is perhaps another question, namely, if they fail to do something they want to do. It is more understandable, then, than when they show their finger, as it were, to the high council and to the nation of Israel. It comes as no surprise that politicians break a promise, so it may not be surprising, at any rate, that the government should make a suggestion without a national hearing. All right, you're kind of used to it. There is no justification in it, but you are used to it, for governments especially dishonor democracy, the people, and the people. Unless, of course, it doesn't get through the Parliament that it seems, got stuck in the Foreign Affairs Committee, and, of course, the government blames the filamentist. But even if they call it a filancy, and I point out that we are talking about the European Union, one of the larger issues discussed at this council, it is reasonable that there is a very detailed discussion. The word that the Council is not trustworthy in making decisions on issues such as dealing with EU negotiations is an application to the Parliament. I think it's so important in this discussion that we don't forget what we're talking about. We're not just talking about the European Union, we're talking about democracy, we're talking about Congress. We're not even talking about the alleged crazy dreams piazza of a direct democracy or a national bill every year or the Senate over a head. And it's more serious than tears. I realize that I don't have time to take a material discussion about the European Union. But it may be an extra point in relation to the question of whether we should have democracy or not, but it will sting me particularly at the highest level. A government or a what. Congress officials come here to support their opposition to the European Union by not becoming an independent nation if we enter it. We're a nation of our own if the campaign promises are betrayed, if the votes for national pay are betrayed, and if the U.S. Marshals don't like it, we're a nation. Does a government feel that the General takes too long to discuss matters? What independence will we defend them? I wonder. In addition, I wanted to discuss the connection with the EEA and the fact that there is always a need to handle a situation here from the EEA. It doesn't seem to be the contradiction. I'm stopping here for the time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u211	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's speech. It is therefore not a secret to discuss the natural proposal of the memory of the part now because we are concerned that the process should be stopped during the last term, the matter of meeting the EU Member States. We are faced with an urgent need to end up with some sort of dress code, without any normal presence, and without answering a number of voters to pay a national law on the future of the application. It has been mentioned in discourses, and particularly in contrast with various members of the administrations, that there are different categories of those in which the proposal is not always perennial, that they are sometimes the members of a national law, and sometimes not, and is mixed up in the city of Reykjavík. I wanted to ask you what. A member of Parliament: Why is he concerned that it is important that this matter be handled in a national law?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u212	A respectable president. The reason for this is simple. She is that if this case doesn't belong to a national law, I don't know any case that belonged to a national law, if there's any confirmation of a constitution or anything like that, but the process is used probe not so that the Constitution changes are confirmed by national law. If we allow it to continue in the first place that the government will cut through the promises and shun the council, we are in a much worse dilemma than the fact that the government will not see a direct democracy in its prey, which is bad enough for me. It is bad that we miss out on the good opportunities we have to bring about relatively regular national pay. I wondered: " What if people wanted a national bill on the drinking bill, which is a very controversial matter that many people believe? It is relatively easy to learn that way. The conclusion is that there is a matter that may belong to a national law. Personally, I feel that it is necessary to come from the nation rather than from politicians. But if they refuse to present this matter to the nation, will they make a legal issue of it? If they want to pay it to national law, why not do the same? If they want to place some kind of fortress in a national law, why not do the same? Or the airport in Reykjavík, let's say why not this? It doesn't matter what case I look at, if this case doesn't belong to a national law, I can't understand its message any other way, so I don't have a legal case. So now it is with us blessed politicians - well, blessed or not - that we are always so eager to talk about national pay and say, "Yes, yes, we would, yes, we would be there for more national fees, just not in this matter. Then come the next thing. Yes, I do. I'm in itself in favor of national pay, just not in this matter. This is never the case in the ◯ of this case. Somehow, it is lenient for us politicians, so we need to change. We need to change it by giving up our thinking so that we are only in favor of national pay when the nation agrees with us. We need to realize that when the people are to decide something, that is not true of us. [[The president calls.]] Maybe it's a little crazy for politicians but I think it's a good idea, though.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u213	Madam President. Yes, that was clear. What a fine reflection that is! A senator as to what matters should and should not be considered. National pay is very important, and my unit, the Conspiracy, has always been accompanied by the expansion of direct democracy in Iceland. But, of course, we need clear rules on what sort of cases we may be able to take into our national pay; I think we all agree that human rights are not at home, for these may be groups in a very weak position that makes it easy to build up some kind of hostility against. Economics on taxation and these don't belong in national pay. There has been a great demand for greater opportunities for national pay since collapse, and it has also been some since then. Then comes the Constitution, which a great deal of work was put into writing during the last term. She was won at the council and joined a national program. How tragic it is that we were unable to complete that matter, not even the national law! I think the discussion on this matter right now, this enormously important future, will show us that it must be a priority for the Council to ensure that in a constitution there will be clear regulations on binding national law.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u214	A respectable president. It was like speaking from my heart. The most important change in constitution in my opinion is that the U.S. legal right of the nation is to be set in place, that the nation has the opportunity to impose binding national laws on decisions made by the General Assembly. Hv. A senator names two defenders in terms of national pay and direct democracy in general; they are rightly mentioned because it is important to keep them in subjection. On the one hand, decisions about things are like financial laws. It is somehow given that such decisions do not belong in national pay. I call attention to the fact that in the bill of the Council of Government Act it is specifically assumed that funding does not go to the National Remuneration, they are specifically excluded for very objective reasons in my opinion. I haven't met anyone who disagrees with that arrangement yet, but if the EU case doesn't belong in a national law, I don't know what case is at home there. There is a question of great value, a question of whether a person would like to make an informed decision or not. The other thing. A senator gives us the question about what is sometimes called the violence of the greater part. There are two things I have to consider in that matter; on the other hand, there are some limitations, the power of a nation, and the authority of politicians. The Constitution can apply to the decision of the nation, just as it holds true regarding the decisions we make at the General Assembly. However, the violence of much of it also takes place in government democracy. I would even become so bold as to suggest that a representative democracy is weaker than violence because it actually leads to popularity by finding some guilt, some minority that can be beaten and blamed for themselves. [[The president calls.]] We have an example of this. This is not a threat to direct democracy. [[The president calls.]] It's not a threat in this regard, I think, not beyond government democracy unless it... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u215	Madam President. The proposal to turn it over to the nation each year to continue communicating with the European Union. As you look at it, and as you review the situation, complicatedly, you would have thought it would be a very good basis for the political groups in the country to meet together in such a way. I think all classes were right in considering this possibility for their own political reasons. It has to be recognized that politics itself, as well as the rest of it, are in considerable trouble with this matter, in order to be spoken of in a mild way. Its situation is quite awkward for the country, as recent events have clearly revealed - the famous letter, which says to the people who sent them to translate that their talks were cut off or that we had stopped, but the recipient of the letter has not understood it as we do. Second, it would be wise to examine this possibility for the sake of the nation. I think it has become that way, it sounds to me that the people have naturally got the feeling very strongly, although it has been said, that it was decided, or that it was decided that they would take the next step, that the people would be shot at taking sides in the case. Because they feel democratic, they feel normal under these circumstances, and so the situation is that if they do not, they will experience it in such a way that they are being taken away from it, taking of it something that has been promised. I think that explains the unsatisfied waves, the rage that broke up both last year and again in the light of how the government has kept things under control. If we just briefly review how this is involved in politics in the country, or I'm going to do it for my part, it is quite clear that both the independent party and the forward group will have it in their own history, and more recently, to promise that it will be the people to decide the rest of their lives. They wanted to do it right away in 2009. They promised it for their last election. Since its 2009 national meeting, the left movement has, in effect, based on one way or another, the country's staging this issue. In fact, the new and interesting fact is that the most interested ones must be identified as members of the Controversy, the Controversy, and the bright future are now also thinking that the nation is to decide the next steps. Pirates refer to their core policy on direct democracy and open society and support that this is the way. Thus, all classes have in one way or another their history, and now even now, at least during their final losses, in effect, spoken for the way of presenting the matter to the nation. That's why you would have intended this to be a basis for maintaining this matter for the future. Then, of course, people can discuss the process, both timing and questions asked. I may have missed it here during the discussion that they didn't just say so. Second, is there something wrong with having discussions with the European Union and having things tested? I agree with those who say that, basically, what it means to be involved in the European Union. The European Court is absolutely ahead of us, and we know what it means to walk with it the way it is. But the other cannot be strongly reasoned that there are meaningful discussions, that testing whether or just how much people receive their unique status has no value. Furthermore, he does not make the presentation of some to say that talking is empty and that there is no precedent for having any other authority, because it is not true. Here, people have named the Island of Iceland, as I have at times, who received two very significant permanent provisions or special solutions for real estate, and even the exception of the customs union itself, are toll free zones, based on their having important interests in sea transport and cruises on the Baltic Sea and reach them abroad, or Finnar for them, to be evicted in this sense. Malta was indeed able to obtain certain special solutions for its coastal fishing fleet in its fishing business. They are not too extensive, but they are still there. Farming in the northern regions of Sweden and Finland has a permanent authority to support farming in the Arctic regions as well as in other parts of the country. Some years ago, I examined the energy issues, and I was surprised to see how much special the European Union's speciality has clearly been allowed to keep in its energy, even large Member States being authorized to implement its energy and energy markets, even France. So, let's say, there's a way of not fulfilling a single law that was actually due to be involved in the European Union and that was taking up euro. True, they referred to the nation's vote, which is where it resides. Sweden is not about to record euro. Men have mentioned Dani, but for the sake of all things, it's a little different. Dana's unique position, on the one hand at their earlier membership, and first of all the northern countries, and on the other hand, due to a special solution that was agreed upon after they rejected the original version of the Maastricht Convention. However, the conclusion became a permanent exception, which the Dans have been considering whether they should go to vote for but have not made up to this, the famous country's sum, etc. Is it possible to have discussions, and is it not justified unless you firmly agree that your country should be joined in the European Union and that it is a complete agreement? No, it doesn't quite make sense. The Norwegians took a split nation behind a two - fold conversation, and the government in Norway was even divided. The labor party was divided, and the Labour Party itself was split in front of the discussion, and his arm was hard against them and organized in a formal movement within the group. That's how you could count it for a long time. Of course, I am not saying that there is no point in such discussions if there is no mind with a case of any kind or nature. But my conclusion is that it was important to know whether Iceland offered some special solutions for the discussion and to get it right. To remind us, how was the preparation for the 2009 meeting of the member countries? So it was that Iceland's treaties were highly defined, and the agency was charged with maintaining the interests of the interview and that our particular place in sea transport, food safety agriculture, etc. I'd be loyal. It was the guidance. And it went further, and it was said, That some of these things are not accomplished, or that we should leave them in the speech, it is necessary for us to return to the Council in that state. It is true that when men testify that we have warned, left green, right away at this time, that we have the right to withdraw from the support of continued conversation, including the evidence that such a situation could, of course, be faced with a choice: Will humans continue to be on a human basis or something similar, which makes it obvious that we do not have our basic interests as we intended? Or will they say, " Good, don't you have to go any further, if you have hope, for example, that you will have the approved position in the marine waters that you need? ' That's what I think people should keep in mind and respect. So I think it would be wise for the politics of the country to discuss carefully whether any solution in this world could not be flat for most people. [[The president calls.]] Of course, it is all open to discuss both the timing and the arrangement when and how and in what way the nation would be consulted.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u216	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's cognition for good talks and an excellent overview. I know it wasn't exhaustive, but we here were given a material review of various specialations that have been given to countries in the European Union. It has been said, in protest, that there is no reason to apply for involvement in the European Union, and there is the possibility that we will not have any exceptions, as it is called. The European Union is now a peace alliance with noble ideals as well as a political alliance. It is a place of rich interest, and it has been designed to cover interests and find ways in which people sacrifice less interests for more. I'd like to ask that question. A senator, in view of his knowledge of the member affairs of other countries, whether he is likely to achieve the worsening forecasts presented here, that Iceland, in no way, will be able to achieve economic agreements, which are one of the basics of the country's work, will be able to achieve; whether it is likely that in this regard we will be treated like any other fish-fishing state in the European Union.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u217	Madam President. It is very difficult to become a prophet in the matter of recognition of our uniqueness and to consider, to the extent that we would obtain special solutions, such as those defined in the Committee to the greater part of the U.S. Department of State in the spring of 2009. I think the situation is that in general the European Union is a great understanding that Iceland has quite a special status. In effect, I would have believed that we could convince people that we had to take advantage of our resources and that it would be in the best interests of all. And the idea has been that we could accept that the Icelandic fishing grounds would be defined as a special area. Other areas of the EU are not involved, and this may have some of the results. I have also had faith that with the strong reasoning we have, such as the food security and food security, we could not import living animals. When it comes to other things, I have more doubts. I see a late understanding that the European Union would agree that Iceland could continue to hunt, and I think it would be difficult to obtain a further prohibition on raw meat and raw food, since the EU and ESA are on our back anyway because of EU Member States already. So it's like this. The problem is, too, that while some people understood our unique position in the European Union, it is not that it would be easy for the European Union to meet us personally. For example, because of their long - term search in Scotland, Ireland, and elsewhere if Iceland was given access to accessories all the other treatments and much more independence within the category than they do. And it may be just as difficult to understand that our unique position in the European Union was missing. This could therefore prove to be a challenge, including for political reasons in the European Union itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u218	Madam President. I think that's the exact food you're eating at the end of the day. A senator says it's not easy. They are not easy to deal with, which hopefully lies ahead of them. However, it is quite surprising that a group such as the Independence Party - very bound with technical discussions and formalities - does not know much more than it does - it does not seem to have faith that Iceland can be harsh and forthcoming in contracts. I think it's strange when we look at the fact that the Department of Foreign Affairs was in 2009 with a very successful committee opinion; it was a very clear guide in how these matters should be handled. In addition, the contract board was especially well organized by very qualified people. I can fully understand that there is a debate about whether we want to be in an alliance like the European Union, a union. In fact, it's harder for me to understand that people don't want to be in the union than they want to be in the EEA and somehow take what comes from the European Union that way. But I can understand that people do not support the European Union for ideological reasons. But I am disturbed by this lack of confidence when it comes to the fact that we as a nation can fight for our interests, e.g. in the realm of a fishing field. [[The president calls.]] I'm sure we can. And I'm just as convinced that if our interests are threatened and we don't achieve what we need in contracts, no one will be willing to accept them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u219	Madam President. There are many conflicting facts in the approach of this case. Let's do this with negotiations and negotiations. When the conversation began - of course, there were conflicting feelings about it, so to speak - organizations such as LIVU were quite opposed to Iceland's success in the European Union. But in a town, I hope to quote, the men took the responsibility to say, "If we've gone into conversation, our duty is to the land as good as possible. " Why? Yes, because we must just as well assume that he will be accepted, and then he better be as good as possible. That is a responsible position, so whatever your emotions may feel, I think that the conclusion must be that if we talk to the European Union, the goal is to have as good a contract as possible. That is true for all, regardless of their feelings, to be united. I have to say in my opinion that it would be very good for the national soul and the discussion, the folk talk, if we could explain the situation in these matters so that we wouldn't have to argue about the same things, e.g. If it were only for the next ten, fifteen years, we'd just get it right: Are there any special solutions? Is this acceptable? Does the nation want it, or do they not? Of course, this cannot be determined by a single generation, now a living generation, forever. And we are not going to hide now in politics, and some of us are going to learn in the sense that for a very long time, we are going to try to decide this for generations to come. I accept it perfectly, and I want it to be that it is in the hands of generations to come to handle this matter. I feel that some of my peers, even a lot older, still have ideas in their mind that they should interpret this for the future. That's not how it's gonna be. But it would be possible for the country to explain the situation, e.g. for the next ten, fifteen years in advance, as happened in Norway after they rejected the terms of their later contracts. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u220	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I wondered in the interest of his speech and in view of the experiences he had at the government table during the last term whether he believes that there is a problem again, that under these circumstances, we would soon be allowed to see some of the games we have most discussed here, on the sea - treatments, and in the agricultural business. What happened during the last term was that there was a great delay in the ability to discuss that section, especially the water - everywhere. Some have mentioned that although other factors may have mattered, the macrolide was the main source of communication. I know that during his last term, it was him, and many of his party were very eager to get their lines pretty clear in those categories, and I'm sure they will. A senator has contributed to this. Counts 'em out. A senator, if the process recurs, that we will continue to stop at the topic areas, even though conversation may continue in other areas where there are fewer or fewer problems?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u221	Madam President. I would have reason to believe that we should not have trouble getting opened, for example, and having serious discussions about the agricultural phase and the health and commitment phase. True, we were asked for significant solutions, but they were clear and specific, and I think the European Union was quite ready to take their stand during the discussion. It was my feeling, and it was a long time before they started opening up. With respect to the seafront, it's my opinion, it's my conviction that there's the mackerel and the noise in the mackerel dispute playing a key role in the fact that the European Union's review report remained locked into a drawer, and I know exactly exactly what level it was there. To tell you the truth, I've seen her and I know what was in her and I know that there were two brackets around two different opening conditions, that's just the way. And there was a controversy in the European Union over each corner cloven should be used, how hard it should be to get into us because of the macro, whether to mention it directly or to mention it under a rose. That's the way it was. It is true now that we have met primarily with the European Union, so the issue is no longer between us and the EU but between us and Norway. It's a unofficial secret, isn't it? It's Norway that stops us getting into the macrolles with an acceptable percentage or at least a long way. The European Union was quite ready to demonstrate the flexibility of the two figures, and the second letter is not zero and not one. But Norway could not accept that. The atmosphere between us and the EU might, therefore, be better on the way of the ocean that, of course, they have faced the fact that Iceland must have some fairly fair share in the macroil population, so it may not be quite the same stumbling block. I was just like, "Didn't I pick up something in all of this? And I'm not sure that the Icelanders would be delighted in the light of history if they suddenly turned back, if it happened at any subsequent loss through a national law, or whatever it would be now, or to a new government that they wanted to start over again. ' [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u222	V.E.G. President. I singled out that in a talk earlier today, it was at least allowed to be understood. Guðmundur Steingrímsson believed that waiting with the most difficult chapters would have been negotiation technique. I had a history of it. paritaprevir Steingrímur Sigfússon said that there was some way in which the two fields waited, the farm field, and the seabed, that there was some kind of negotiation mechanism, which certainly isn't completely unknown, to try to get together the things that are easy to finish and to keep what is perhaps the hardest, possibly to create more pressure on the fact that a solution was found in that area? I took this theory from what's happened. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson's son, wondering if I'm feeling any better. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon would have been in some way that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u223	Madam President. It wasn't on the part of Iceland or was not supposed to be a negotiation technique, and it wasn't. For example, in the left movement, we were controlling the opening of some of the difficult sections as soon as possible and not all of them would be gathered at the end. Whether the European Union was thinking about it differently, I am not entirely confident with myself, and this may not be really a test until we arrive at this time when we are waiting for the ocean - out review report to open up. It will also be fair to keep preparatory work on the part of the government at home was by far the most appropriate in these difficult chapters. For example, there was a great deal of work and a considerable expense in building our arguments about livestock and health and housing, and we had foreign experts with us in preparing and preparing them for a good presentation. It is similar with the seabed, an elaborate work that was done in preparing and preparing our contract. It certainly took time. We were not even ready until 2010 and 2011 in that regard. But by the end it became clear where it was stranded, at least for the fishing route. Some with the theory that this usually happened, the deal on the island was like that, they kept it as hard as it was until last, and then they cut the knots at the summits, it was taken up to the highest level, and it would even be cut off by such difficult knots at the finish line. And I'm sure it could have ended up that way in Iceland, like many others, even if you don't think about it, even though it's not at first suggested that the most difficult things want to stay in humans and therefore end up very late. Of course, those of the EEA already incarcerated would be the fastest, and so it became. Then, the main focus was one chapter related to the area waiting, the capital transport because of Iceland's temporary chemical position. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u224	Madam President. We will discuss a proposal for a resolution on national law on the continuation of discussions about Iceland's membership in the European Union. It is in some ways that we are discussing the proposal for a continuation of talks that were approved and approved at the Council of the summer of 2009 with a resolution, which has not been withdrawn or has not been approved by another body of Congress at a hearing that has detracted it. I'm sitting right there. A foreign relations committee and a great amateur for the European Union and Iceland's ties to other countries and the outside world. As most people know, the future is an amateur party and has declared support for entry into the European Union. We think it'll probably be a benefit. but we proclaim and have always declared a great support for the negotiations that will be finished and that the national agreement will be prepared. So it is a definite change, a policy change, to take part in making a proposal for a resolution to the continuation of discussions that were agreed to be held at the General Assembly of 2009 and that has not been agreed to be resolved. This suggestion is not without reason. As everybody knows and has been well discussed in this afternoon, the General Assembly agreed to interview in 2009, an application request was sent to the European Union, a discussion was rejected, and perhaps even considered too well, as made up of two fine reports submitted to the council last year. Before the 2013 election, the decision to withdraw an application was basically made by all classes, and some said that the application would not be continued differently than it had to be paid nationally. Since the beginning, all classes have been or signed out that a contract would never be approved except by national law. I wasn't at a council in 1949 when Iceland went to NATO, and I wasn't at the General Assembly in 1970 when Iceland agreed to join EFTA. I wasn't even at council in 1994 when Iceland approved the EEA Convention that has held quite well, although there is more and more and more debate that it is even incompetent, to say the least, to accept a great deal of legal action directly from Europe without the fact that the Icelanders have been able to participate in this law, but the contract and participation in the EEA have been very effective for us. Similarly, our participation in EFTA in Iceland and the participation in NATO, although it is a controversial one, has been part of the international foreign policy of sharing in the international work of our neighboring nations and the next to us. Despite the fact that these decisions were made at the General Assembly without a direct approach to the nation, they have been well along. Times have changed since 1949. Today and especially after the massive collapse, not only economic, but also moral; I say a collapse of trust which followed the economic collapse of 2008, I believe the thought of making as large and dramatic a change in Icelandic society as in Icelandic governance such as walking in the European Union, or in EFTA, NATO, or accepting a contract such as the EEA, is impossible without the arrival of the people, at least in a advisable national law of society, before the Allied Council finds its final status. What is strange is that we are discussing a special national bill to continue a discussion that was agreed upon. Now I myself, both as a financial individual and in my business dealings, and so forth, have come to many contracts, no one as large as the EEA agreement or the EU entry agreement, but many contracts. All those processes have shared the thought and wish to achieve a good deal, to achieve an acceptable agreement. When that decision has been made, a contract process is started where both parties are trying to achieve the best of agreements, preferably so-called ◯win-win-win- treaties or contracts that can be accepted and contented by the two parties. After the contract work is done, both sides take a position to agree to the agreement. After that, the contract goes into effect. Although the European Union Convention is a much more complex and longer process than the contracts I have participated in, e.g. By my bank, or by the hands of the professionals, there are the same laws. What's so remarkable about having been listening to this discussion all day is that I feel as if we're still arguing about technical details. Sometimes I feel like I've bought an electrical device from a more novel species and I'm trying to get it back because it's faulty and there's some small type of writing arguing about it. Of course it's a complicated process. The European Union is complex. The European Union rules are complex and history of agreements between other countries with the European Union is complex. Two reports were submitted last year on the status of Iceland's discussions with the European Union. They gave many details of Iceland's potential for separate solutions, even leaving, many signs of how well the talks had gone. In spite of this, we've been arguing at the council all day. Some senators, especially those of the Constitution, have pointed to the points they feel that there is no negotiation and that bad luck and so forth, while other members of Congress have pointed out how successful they were, provide an excellent example of all manner of extraterrestrials and specialties. Since then, there have been many struggles over what happened at a council in the past, who said what 2009, who wrote an article in 2008, and so on. Madam President. I have to say with all due respect that I'm pretty much impressed that the discussion has gone away. I feel that it is a complete repetition of the discussion that I personally shared in just one year ago when we discussed the reports and propose to the highest degree. Secretary of state to retract the application. The only thing that's to be clear is that it's actually a political impossible to discuss the matter, let alone to make that decision. If there is anything known about society, it is that the concept of Iceland's involvement or entrance into the European Union is not going to vaporize. I wasn't at the council at the time, but I well remember the discussion of allowing beer, the discussion of allowing a color TV. That discussion lasted for many years until the decision was made. The European Union debate will not disappear no matter how hot it is. Secretary of state wishes to do so. [[The president calls.]] If it's a political impossible for the politicians to finish this case, land contract and put it in the hands of the people, we'll have to direct the people to finish this process. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u225	President wants to ask senators to respect their deadlines. It is not acceptable to exceed half a minute in time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u226	I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u227	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. I wondered a lot, as it has been, to the democracies in all of this, but now the person standing here was not. paritaprevir Proppé at the council during the last term, perhaps a little bit easy for us to imagine that we had done things differently than we might have done if we had been at the council. But I find it so important in all this discussion that the democracy prince is honored and, in fact, I view the proposal not as a matter of principle about the European Union, but primarily about the Prince of Democracy. That's why I'd like to ask him why. A senator, even in the light of the story, should he? A senator believes that during his last term, he would support the proposal to present the question in a national law before making any negotiations. I think something important is that we all ask ourselves this question, because some members of the council have described that if they were to be selected back into their hands, they would choose differently. Fortunately, even members of Congress learn. The reason I feel that this question is a little important to me is because there is a shortage of authority and legitimateness. I'd like to say that if this matter had been paid national votes to begin with, even if it had only been a Platonic, it would have been legitimately clear, the last elections would have looked quite different, and in particular the campaign and I'd like to mean that the questions we asked would be different and much clearer and more natural than it really is. I wonder what. A senator feels that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u228	Madam President. First, I'd like to apologize and apologise for having gone ahead of time, hoping that I'll be returning a few seconds here. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I must say, I find it difficult to put myself in the position of a prophet, whether to predict in advance or back in time. I remember that in 2009 the situation in Iceland was quite different from that in today's society, and it's a big rush with most issues, a lot of worry and a lot of ruin in progress, let's say. So I can't really decide what I would have done in 2009. I don't think it's likely that I would have supported a national law if the question was to arise today. But I have no idea that I would never have supported my accepting entry into the European Union without the eventual decision. However, I also take our serious responsibility as an elected members of the council in order to make only some decisions, such as. to start working on something. I believe in it and accept that the Council has full rights and is responsible for starting work even that such important matters should be done in another way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u229	A respectable president. I can, for one, accept it. What follows is that these are adaptable discussions. When I ask exactly what humans mean, there will usually be very little answers. The last time I asked about this, people started talking about the IPA strength that the European Union stopped providing Iceland and the highest. In fact, the minister of state was very unhappy, complaining about it in December 2013, despite the fact that the IPA grants were to be part of some kind of lead-in process that was so against humans. I have to admit, I don't really understand all that speech. It is to be expected that such big interests, such as the European Union, will be overexcited, especially to sea routes and agriculture, etc., that the voices that want to stop the process will be very loud. So I reiterate that I think it's important that we all understand how we should have voted in our own time with this proposal, especially when we look forward to the future, how we're going to deal with similar issues in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u230	Madam President. I appreciate the answer. I don't know. In 2009, the election made a significant application for the European Union, and as shown in the discussion today, many categories were at least positive for applying. It's really amazing how many things have changed ever since. One of the reasons why I support this proposal for interpretation is this remarkable situation. Last year, a proposal was made to withdraw the application across the campaign, and this year it was sent a rather baffling letter without being applied before the council. We're basically in a position where the politicians don't seem to be causing the project. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u231	Madam President. I thank the senator for his speech. I just want to think about it in the light of what was said by the senator as much as he did, and a bright future will come to mind if we were accepted into the European Union. What is his opinion of the most practical use of land and nation, and what would he be most concerned about? I think it is undisputed that the relationship is developing towards greater fusion, that central management is becoming larger, and that the Member State's sovereignty is to be reduced and the European Community legislation is superior to national or regional legislation. Perhaps what we have had in doubt about going into the EU has been concerned about, that walking in the EU would be losing too much compared to what we may have made. As we have seen here, of course, we don't know anything until we have it in our hands. I wanted to know what it was like. A member of the European Union as its main asset. I think we're all aware, both of us, who are less against it than we are in favor, that this is a matter of rich interests for the nation. That's why we're talking here. All views are entitled and must be drawn out. But it would be interesting to hear how the senator feels about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u232	Madam President. A big question is asked. At first, I'm not so worried about it or at least not as worried about it as many of the risks of Iceland losing its sovereignty, I have full faith that our neighboring and friend country in Europe are completely superior. I mean, both Germany, Denmark, and Ireland are sovereign states, despite their participation in the European Union. Although it has not been tested, the European Union is like any other international organization so that it can always be eliminated. I think Iceland and I have good experience with what's good about being in the European Union because we've had a kind of addition through the EEA since 1994. From there we have received a lot of good legislation, especially in the environment, consumers, the production and safety of food, etc. True, all of this has been given without participating in decisions where we have not sat at the table but only under orders. But all of this has been to a large extent in Iceland's advantage, with the exception of, of course, Iceland's access to markets, the availability of Icelanders to work, travel, etc. throughout Europe. All of these are very positive things. Also, I believe Iceland as a small country in a world that is always getting smaller and smaller and more complex and complex depends on good and close relations and cooperation with other countries and neighboring countries. [[The president calls.]] Maybe I'll get to that in a second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u233	Madam President. I thank the senator for the answer. It would be interesting to know what the major things are in his mind because we who are considering these matters must all think about what it is that the nation could most lose, and I think that the promotion of power will always be something. There is always some central control in such a large bond of union that the European Union is, so I don't think that there are all cases under which we can hire. But what is the senator's concern about what has been discussed here only with the exception and the larger chapters that have been discussed, the fishing grounds, the agriculture, and the raw products, as well as the like? Is that something we were going to accept? They're calling for us to import groceries, such as lye. Not the same laws as Icelandic producers need to agree with animal protection laws. [[The president calls.]] They're calling for a transfer from the EU law to be required, but we've established more rigid legislation than that. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u234	Madam President. I allow myself to be rather optimistic and to agree with others. Councilmen who have spoken today about the potential for Iceland to achieve an acceptable contract and an acceptable decision in agriculture, fishing, etc., can be completely satisfactory. Of course, each time we cooperate, we always lose some sovereignty. Iceland yields a state of sovereignty by participating in the European Convention of Human Rights. We are happy to do so because we participate in the strength of our size in order to fight for good things. The problem with the EEA is, in fact, the promotion of sovereignty that we are not at the table, we do not participate in the discussion, and the European Union is built up to the fact that there is a reason for denial. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u235	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator before his speech and says that I just thought it would be better with the bells at the end. A respectable president. I found an interesting debate that was created here on the issue of sovereignty because it is a very important question to me as we look at our relationship with the European Union. I think we're retrieving our sovereignty by becoming members of the European Union compared to the position we are in right now. When you get a rule in which you don't have a place at the decredulous institutions that make decisions about the content of this rule, that's what I think is a inferior position than walking in there, sitting at the table with other independent states, sitting at the table in democratic institutions making decisions about our future. That's what the European Union is about. It is the cooperation of sovereign countries that are equal to one another and make decisions about their future and those of their citizens. The situation we are today is my opinion in a very gray area. I think it's a discussion we're supposed to take up more and discuss for real, the weak situation we have in decision-making when we're like the rest of the European Union through the EEA Convention. A respectable president. This was not the subject of my questions and the reason why I asked for an answer. I wanted to ask him why. A senator's view is that there is no evidence in the Treaty that there is to be such a decisive and decisive effort now to break free when the fact is that there is no evidence in the Treaty to do so. This was not evident in the leading of the election and in the campaign that it should be done, but there is much more and more to it, even against the views within our own ranks, in breaking up talks now. [[The president calls.]] Who believes the senator that this is the reason?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u236	Madam President. I thank you for the question as well as for meditation on sovereignty. That's where I completely agree. Senator. Now I'm not, and I don't have any memory to have ever been a member of either board, so I don't want to imagine what's on my mind, at least it's not particularly clear to me. One might think that this is a combination of wishful thinking at the highest. A government can do its will or wish that the concept of Iceland's European Union should disappear and forget and even some form of pride that now they have such power that it is in their power to make that decision permanently. Neither one I really can accept. I have to admit that I don't have a deeper understanding of how politics works, that I don't understand why decisions have been made like this. I suspect, though, that it may be because of the sincere desire of certain political parties and certain interests in the community to prevent Iceland from becoming a member of the European Union and to prevent the nation from being allowed to see what is available after a contract has been made. But what do I know, a poor senator with a relatively short session? I'm not really able to answer this, so I'm in the conflicting position of supporting a synopsis proposal to continue something that has already been decided by the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u237	A respectable president. You see, it's a strange situation we're in. What I find to be the worst part of this is that men are making a decision to shut the door, closing the door to the future prospects for us in retrieving a currency that works for us in international transactions, taking out a currency that could possibly bring us greater prosperity, and especially the public of the country who could receive a loan that would be on a pair of people with what is best around us, etc. This is done without any other option. It might be possible to discuss it with people if they offered a choice. What future will the government offer us in return? This option has never been submitted. That's what I find so difficult to do, too. I feel that the theme of the government has been tearing down and pulling back everything the previous government did without considering giving us some insight into the future here on a land that is better than what is available today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u238	Madam President. Yeah, I have to say the word. A senator says that what is not offered is remarkable. Sometimes we feel that we have new members of a new group, like the one standing here, like the kid who doesn't understand why Mom and Dad are fighting, because I think there's a lot of the discussion and the debate, especially from the top. The government is still between government and government opposition during the last term. It's quite remarkable that there's been a shutdown of prospects of stability, of a constant currency. We've had 100 years of experience with a crown that hasn't been so happy, but now it's time to shut down and really don't say anything about what's going to happen. A bright future has suggested that Iceland pursues currency policies. That suggestion has not really been answered. Yeah, I'm a little bit of a question sign. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u239	Madam President. It is now the history of the meeting that the General decided on July 16, 2009. Let me briefly review how this story is. We agreed here by members of all members of the Parliament to apply for involvement in the European Union and start a business discussion. There are 28 states in the European Union. None of them have kept a national law on whether to apply for membership, as there is no national debt. Most of these countries, most of them, I don't trust to say all of them because I'm not sure that they're right, have held a national bill to see if the deal was agreed and become a member of the relationship. There have been reports of such a contract made twice, and these are our cousins, Norse, who acted in such a way. However, we decided to start a negotiation, and it was decided at the General Assembly. Then the talk was slowed down for an election, and then a new government began. The Head of the Independence Party, one o'clock. paritaprevir The Independence Party called earlier a few odd jobs, but that was all the Ministers, except for the current minister of the state who was not available, including the head of the party, the Supreme Minister. Bjarni Benediktsson, and former Minister of Internal Affairs Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir and Deputy Director of the Party publicly promised that the continuation of the case was decided on national terms. When we were discussing the matter here in the spring of 2014, a report that had been prepared for the European government and the situation of conversations, such as thundering from a clear sky came. That's when everything went crazy. Day after day, the East was filled with voters who disagreed that this was the case. In order to demand national payment on the continuation of conversation, 53,55 signatures were collected. According to polls, 80% of them want to vote for the continuation of their discussions. There are many differences in the attitude of humans toward EU Member States. A significant group wants to join the European Union, and a considerable group does not like it at all. There is also a large group of people who want a contract to be established so that they can shape their stand on the basis of that information. The heads of the classes in my section, and with members of that category, it is suggested that a national resolution be held on September 26, the second, in which people are authorized to vote for the question, with the permission of the president: ▪ Do you know that Iceland will take up a short talk with the European Union, with the aim of making a contract under which the nation would be signed for approval or innuendo? Then people answer yes or no. This is one of our biggest interests in the future. Here we are answering the call of the majority of voters in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] I repeat my words from earlier today: I hope this proposal comes as soon as possible. So we can vote for her. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u240	A respectable president. That caught my attention in a talk. A senator said that no state had held a national bill to begin a business discussion. So I would like to hear a little more about a state that twice refused to enter the European Union, see Norway. You now hear a great deal about this discussion by the people who are most opposed to the European Union that this is not negotiations or negotiations but instead of adaptation negotiations, i.e. that by the application, by the process, we are automatically or may not be automatically, but at least immediately during negotiations, we adapt to the European Union. Now I feel that it is worth calling it an independent point in terms of contempt, such as that adjustment is in its nature something negative. I think it's arrogance that we can't afford. But as we have seen, Norway in two ways has refused entry. I wondered: " Was there any career in Norway that then needed to return? Was Norway somehow adapting to the European Union in such a way that they needed to rewind some terrible process of adaptation? I wonder what. A senator can teach me how to do this, because I wasn't here during the last term, and he didn't take part in the decision to apply for involvement in the first place, but maybe at the same time. A senator can teach us more about Norway's history in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u241	Madam President. I'm just going to admit that I don't know if there was anything in Norway that had to be moved back to the other side. At any rate, it is clear that twice the deal was turned down by Norway, and Norway is still doing well, where things seem to be in good luck. Adjustment skills have been the least symptom in Bjartur Sumarhús. It may be the opposition to adaptation in Iceland, but the natural fact is that we are in constant adjustment for the European Union through our involvement in the European Economic Area. It seems that opposers want this adjustment to take place so that we have little to say about it. I think there's a very special attitude. I also find it unusual that many times during the discussion, it is so that once we have a contract in our hands, the Generals can just decide that we're going into the European Union and that there's nothing to ask about the people. It's natural. This is suggested and made clear that a contract will not be approved unless it is paid by national law. And besides, I'd like to point out that Iceland can only walk in the European Union after the changes to the Constitution that have to go through two votes and elections between here at the council. Considering how badly it has been going to change the constitution in Iceland, people can breathe slowly. No one's gonna be horrified on the dirty shoes in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u242	A respectable president. I wonder also at this talk of adaptation, especially in view of the fact that nations have evidently started the process and finished the process and did what was to be done here and still are certainly outside the European Union. This is not to say that once negotiations are completed, it is not possible to stand outside the European Union. I've been trying to dig for what's behind this adaptation speech. Something else that came up in speeches anyway. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Siglejonsson at a good occasion at the time is the IPA grants. After explaining that this discussion should be applied to ice, they stopped on the European Union. There are a number of projects that I am somewhat uncertain about exactly which were basically a project either to prepare economically or to touch infrastructure to enter the European Union. But then I noticed that once the European Union stopped supplying the IPA, the Icelandic government failed and a great deal, the highest. The foreign minister of Iceland resented and complained that the work to be completed at the time should not be completed. So I remain with one big question as to what in the world this adaptation process should be. I wonder what. A senator can point to things that would rightly be called adaptations in the application procedure itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u243	President. Yes, there is hope. A senator asks. There are several members of the General Assembly who are members of the World Vision, which are now spoken of as adaptations, and it would be nice if they would describe to us what it involves. At the time of the meeting, the legal structure in the seminaries and in the areas of agreements was reviewed. That was a lot of work within the Board of Directors. It was then a review of what would have to be changed into law in Iceland in case of involvement. Of course, there were some things that would have to be changed and some institutions that would have had to be changed or established. But there was nothing that called for it, no one was forcing us to make any changes before it came. But this was something that had to be done. I believe that this work also revealed some changes that might be done, regardless of whether we were members of the European Union or not. I think it might be better to have a wording with the adapters on this end, and they seem to have done a lot of research and fear.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u244	V.E.G. President. We will discuss a proposal made by representatives of the Council of the European Parliament to provide a national contract or adaptation policy for Iceland to the European Union. There are different priorities, how this process should be defined, as we know and was being discussed right now. I'm not one of those who cry it out when it comes to ending Iceland's adaptation process to the European Union. I don't think it was a good thing when the General agreed in spring 2009 to send in an application for Iceland to the European Union. So I voted. I supported that trial, along with most of those who supported that government. We in the left movement had searched for two or two national laws on the subject. The nation's sources would be consulted first to send in a press application, and then we would choose the results of the agreements. Thus, our company of government, the Conspiracy, opposed and agreed to that viewpoint, had been both mixed in the spring of 2009. The reason why I say that this was bad and unthinked, and I deny that I personally had part in it is because we thought many of the process was different from the experience since then. We believed that there was a negotiation like that of the Norwegians in 1972 and then again between 1993 and 1994. The conversation did not take long. In fact, I can recall as much as the then enlargement director of the European Union, Ole Rehn, said this process would take 18 months at the highest rate. Some members of the government back then spoke for two years at the most. We thought it was much less process than we had experienced. On the one hand, many of us did not wonder how deep this process was, that there was not a discussion in the sense that many of us had believed that it would be necessary to adapt, how the Iceland Instituteing System, including the agricultural, would be adapted to what happened in the European Union, and that we would prepare the legal adjustment with the view that we were fully created for the European Union at the time of the contract. This is the adjustment. Then we were given strength that we viewed as an anointing to stimulate the interest within the country of the European Union. I always thought it was, and I thought it was kind of wrong, applying for membership to check into some bag, what we could possibly get out of it. Of course, we are involved and are to apply for participation in the European Union, with the intention of walking in it, being clean, and straight. That is how I would like to put my question to the people. But we applied for involvement in the European Union without even questioning the nation. During my last term, I repeated it, writing dozens of newspaper articles, where I urged that an expeditation of the subject would be provided on the basis of the knowledge already available. We would look to the Roman covenant, we would look to Maastricht, to the Lisbon Convention, and to the rule we all know. And although Malta's got some share for horny fishing at home or something like this, it's drawn that a cub that's gonna triumph over enunciation, I've never given anything for it. These are minor factors involving entering a state of state. That's what I'm talking about. We're supposed to get clear to the door, and that's why I say again, I think it's a good thing when this process's over, I think it's a good thing. I'm a follower, and I've been there for a long time. But not everyone agrees with me. Not everyone agrees with me about this, and I think that when it comes to issues with a nation that splits us apart, there's only one way to go. She is turning the case to the people to decide which course to take. That's the right way. We are the employees of the nation, who have been given the authority to handle certain solutions. But if the people want to take that power and decide for themselves, they will. I think this is one of the most important things to be transformed into our constitution, that is to give power to the nation to which they are due, and that they should be able to take it in all matters and to be much more free than the Constitution board suggested. She suggested suggestions on national pay, which was very narrow. According to its proposal, the nation must not demand a vote on Icesave, for example, or agreements such as Icesave. This should be wider and, of course, be taken into account, such as the European Union, adjustment, or negotiations, or whatever we would like to call it. Of course you should. Although I believe that this process is to be terminated, and although I would freely vote not to repeat, it is not to say that others'rights and opinions should not be respected. Of course I should. That's why I'm following the shooting of the case. On the other hand, I feel that in my opinion, when discussing the matter at the Council of State, there should be a compromise on how the text or the question is applied to the people. It can hardly be some Holy Scriptures written there, which are unchangeable. For my part, it would be natural for me to ask what the matter really is: Do you, dear voter, that Iceland will maintain a stressful adjustment for Europe with the intention of going in there? I want you to talk to me straight. That's what this is all about, not some conversation, as it's been said. We're applying for involvement in the European Union. Then there's something else that I sometimes wonder had not been discussed further. It is to look to the council arrangement that was accepted here at the time and to consider some factors involved in its implementation. Finally this. In the past government, many of those who now oppose national law on redemption in this case were very strongly convinced that this would be the case. I never wanted to cooperate with those forces because I have concluded that this was done not only out of love for democracy but, rather, to divide the government and my speech was always turned into our common camp. I wanted to convince the board of directors to go the way I have spoken and to review in my language. But it convinces me that there was some charlatanism there, and I'm convinced that when men are involved here in this case today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u245	Madam President. I wanna convince 'em. paritaprevir Jónasson's attitude that I have not been surrounded by one or more things, and there are many things that I was at ease. A senator agreed on, such as. that, of course, was of utmost importance to the people. That was exactly what the men had raised in their time, for the nation to vote for the deal they brought home. That's what the Senate proposal was about, so there's no question about it. I also wholeheartedly agree that there are some of the individuals who have spoken and opposed the proposal that when it comes to seeing that the members of the council at the time were very confusing. I agree with him about that. Also, I agree with him that the application does not work out with the request to be given annuity. Hv. A senator has never heard me talk about the need for some special access. He knows there are other ways I'd like to go to that, and he doesn't need to be reminded of him of the special status Iceland has on the seabed. On the basis of that special situation, I believe it is possible to obtain solutions, with reference to many things I'm not going to go into here. On the other hand, I disagree completely with him that it is not an example for an exception. As soon as I agree with him that I don't feel that I need to go on the way out of the releases, it's simply that there's probably a quarter of the accessories and just as one of the party parties was tore off the other. There are many examples of this in the public talk by a senator in the past. They vary. Some are very large, e.g. those relating to the Arctic landscape in Finland That's what I wanted to hit in the open from my point of view. Also, I completely reject as the minister who handled these matters at the time, that this was a process of adaptation. [[The president calls.]] Then I'll ask why. paritaprevir Ögmundur Jónasson: What law was changed to adapt Iceland to this application procedure?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u246	V.E.G. President. Hv. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson spent a lot of time. Regarding the spring 2009 democracy show, it is true that there has always been and always existed in everyone's mind, I think, to make a final deal for the nation. I don't remember any better than that. Skarphéðinsson When we discussed the need to have double votes and to ask the people what they wanted, we were quite close to us in this case. That is why I find it a little strange when many who have blessed that incorrigibly difficult to speak about democracy in another context, when the discussion is stopped. In terms of enigmas, humans can have their opinions on them. I don't give much for them. I know very well that in the European Union, there are various factors. The point is that we want to become members of a relationship that is now rapidly developing into state and is deepening in that sense. That is why Norway, 1972, and again in 1993 and 1994 had a completely different reality than the Balkans have been doing. We believed that we were awaiting a process similar to Norway in the 1990s, but we were not put under the same iron as the Balkans later.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u247	Madam President. One thing that the Icelanders managed to achieve, and no other nation I can remember, was exactly the need not to undergo adjustments. However, the question is exactly right. A senator said that it was not necessarily what he had prepared in the beginning. It was the General Assembly of the Icelanders, a Foreign Affairs Committee, who requested that this route be gone and that it be tempted, and as it were. A senator remembers that we came home from the European Commission with the conclusion that Iceland did not need to adapt its rule or law to the European Union in any way before the national declaration of national law. What we would have to do, however, would be to establish plans on how we would need to do so. Hv. A senator at one time was deeply concerned with others about the need for us, for example, to change the agricultural system radically. It was claimed, of course not of reason. Senator, we need to create six new institutions here. What was that like at the end of the day? Even before the agreements were made on agricultural policy, it was clear that the six, depending on the events of 12, organizations that were thought to have to be set up around agriculture and settlements collapsed into one office that could be placed in the Ministry of finance. Thus, any arguments and wrongs of those who were opposed to the member process and who claimed that there was some great adjustment in the course, not going to happen, and I'm not going to do anything. A senator resented the thought of asking him any further about what law had been changed. No law was changed and to recall it before reason. He votes by law almost every day and third of them is because they come, so I'll allow myself to... on the Brussels fax. [[The president calls.]] It's the sovereignty today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u248	V.E.G. President. When men go out in the stats and statistics about the laws that come from the European Union, there are a lot of things that we can do within the administration system, etc. and are not major issues. I look to the big issues, fundamental issues of the market community on labour mobility, on salary rights and rights, as there is constant pressure on the rights of European employees. I look at these things. I don't know. The senator saw that we agreed on this at the time, and there I referred to the enlargement director of the European Union, who also spoke, that we believed that this process would be much less than the case, and not as much of a depth as it was. We believed it. Then, too, the trial took place when we received money. Here you are streaming billions of them into the strength they call adaptability grants. I turned them down in my ministry, the State Department of Internal Affairs. [[Up front.]] There was never a dollar in there. [[Up front.]] Of course, circumstances were not completely comparable, but I stood absolutely against it, we tried to do so, to accept these adaptation grants to adapt our systems to what happens in the European Union.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u249	You made a...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u250	But some never see anything, never see any defects, no tiles, let alone beams in the eyes of the European Union.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u251	A respectable president. I have two things to do. paritaprevir Ögmundur of Jónasson's son. First, thanks to him and commending the understanding of democracy that I mean that most politicians don't have, and that it seems, it seems, a twisted idea that even if you're a single person, you might still have someone other than yourself to make the decision. This is a spirit that I would like to encourage other senators to develop in their own way when it comes to asking their people how they feel about things like the European Union. I have no answer to that point. A senator when it is his turn. On the other hand, I did so in a speech with a boy. A senator who uses the word adjustment very much and wants to mean that these strengths were adaptable, something I don't see in English. Now I don't know exactly how to translate this, more dignified President, but the English term IPA stands for the Inspiration for Pre-Ascension Ascension. There's some kind of help for a state in question and I don't see any adjustment. I don't think it's a good translation with all due respect, but it's enough. For this lead-in process. Now there's a problem. A senator that here some systems and standards have been changed in accordance with the European Union. I'll ask you, if these are processes or organizations that don't need to be adjusted, what about it? If there's a legal adjustment, I have two questions, one on the other hand, so what? I guess we were going to discuss that law-change here. Second, what were they? In case of a moment. A senator could teach us how to do this, and I would be very grateful.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u252	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for beautiful words to me, and I know that we agree on the aspect of democracy and direct democracy and its importance. Instrument for Pre- Weekation Assistance, I understand as an aid in adaptability. That's how I think it's thought, to assist the states to adapt their systems and laws and regulations to the European Union. This has been happening in various areas, preparing us for the entry into the European Union. I could go out to list it, I won't do it in seconds, but we can take up a discussion about what this adjustment was in. Such is the thought of their strength, and they were numbered for billions. So what? Yes, there is a difference between going to a conversation - a relationship we are considering whether we should follow along or become a party - evaluating what comes out of that discussion and trying to change our system before the entrance becomes reality. There's a big difference between the two.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u253	A respectable president. May we have the opportunity to discuss this further with the second discussion of this matter or perhaps in other ways. I would be very interested in it because the more I dig in this process of adaptation, the less I worry about it. If there are any changes like that -- I'm just guessing, I just don't know better - that people are talking about some standard or like that, then I just don't think it's anything unless there's got to be some improvement. We are likely happy to have adapted to Europe in that we use the same electronic interfaces we use, we use TCP when talking about the Internet. That's a good thing. It is good that we are adjusted when it comes to standards, and then we hope that the world is adjusted, i.e. if the changes are about standards and communication and coordination of institutions or processes. In view of the fact that none of these processes and none of these institutions that have been part of this process have required legal adjustments, I simply don't understand what should be so terrible about the supposed adjustment to take place. We certainly go through adaptation through the EEA, we've talked about it here a lot. But also when we talk about being prepared to make adjustments - I'm preparing for a new legal adjustment here, which I can assure you of. A senator who is loaded with members of this town will not appear to be an object of any kind. I'm preparing a change in constitution as well. I'm preparing for all kinds of legal adjustments, as well as my council and other members of the council here. That alone is not a adjustment. That alone, of course, is a prelude. As I say, the more I dig for this, the calmer I'll be with it, and I'll have better time to wrangle. A senator on the meaning of the word.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-14-88.u254	V.E.G. President. I think that's what we're talking about. paritaprevir Ingibjörg Ingadóttir met the nail on her head when she said we were naturally adapting at all times to the European Union through the EEA Convention. Some of us have had doubts and anxieties about how far we are going in that regard. I watch, for example, the operation of the energy sector. I've been worried about what's happening inside the welfare system. In fact, in the last government, we were able to include in advance the European Commission's service directive involved in the privatization of the health services within our institutions, and I would like to encourage us to be much more aware of these factors. There is now a statistical debate in the media. We are extremely concerned that Iceland is not fulfilling its duties toward the EEA agreement. I would like to see a statistical summary of how the European Union itself adapts to the directives that came from Brussels and men stopped focusing on just Norway and Iceland and Liechtenstein and about to look at Portugal, Spain, Greece, Britain, France on such comparisons. But instead of discussing these matters in percentages and statistics, we should begin to peer in and watch the content, what has happened here in the energy business, in the welfare business, on the salary rights, etc.
