ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u1	To answer, Prime Minister, Minister of Health, Education and Culture, Department of Social Affairs and Hospital Affairs, and Minister of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u2	Mr. President. Last year, the larger item at Congress agreed to turn down the so-called radio bill to the State Radio in two steps. This year's pay was raised, and, according to the law, the project is intended to reduce this price back to 2016. Since then, there have been things that have been happening, and including the United Kingdom Radio, it has been responsible for selling the Kingdom News property to improve its debt. A future policy has been proposed, expected in consultation with the highest level. The Minister of Education and Culture, with particular attention to the public services of the Kingdom News, the role it plays in the scattered settlements, its role for children and young people, and many other activities. V.E.G. A minister declared that he would promote this second decline, i.e. to provide a bill in which this second decline, as it were, would be canceled, is made clear according to the information received from the Federal TV to pass through it will mean significant removal of the Operation of State Radio. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: What is his bill, since this reduction is canceled? I'd like to ask the highest, too. Minister if he can tell us what that means for the State Radio if this decline goes through. In view of the fact that today is December 3, and most of the government's headquarters were expected before a month's match, I ask the highest level. Ministers also whether this case is not clear that it will enter the council by Christmas and that it may have to be completed for Christmas so that we won't have to start sharing here on the State Radio which is very important for us to make peace at council. It's got the highest. Ministers have left behind, also that a new service contract is in preparation. I think it's important to get to the top. A minister informs us at a council on where this case stands.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u3	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry and would like to say, at the beginning of my case, that I have already submitted a bill to the government that the decline of pay will be postponed. There are also elements in this bill of obliging conditions that will be set up for the Government Radio on matters relating to the institution of a daughter's partner. I know why. A senator knows the answer. It'll be a hell of a bonus if there's no deferral. So the case is in the realm of government, and I hope it can be settled from the government as soon as possible, but the case is there. You're right. A senator mentioned here, the State Radio has had significant results in the business. This is what has been named after the Chairman of the Committee, who made an assessment of the state's management status, the so - called Eythor report, that during the past few months, a significant success has been made in cutting down the cost of the Kingdom Hall radio. If I recall correctly, it is within the last 12 months about a 5% decrease in the cost of operating properly. That's exactly what matters is that the government radio is renting out the house that is not being used. It's important that we put the construction rights in prices. All of this is evidence that the government of the state radio and its leaders take it very seriously to master the management of the Agency. As shown in the report that we have discussed here at the council, so has the problem of the operation. Because the cost of Kingdom broadcast was much higher than expected, on which decisions were made at the beginning of 2013. Since then, the cost has been considerably higher. Similarly, more than what was supposed to be, pay increases have been faced with significant challenges to business. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u4	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. The bill is on the scene of the government, said the highest. Minister. Everyone in this room knows that if the bill is on the government scene, it's been delayed for some reason. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he thinks there is any reason to believe that this bill will not appear here. Do we expect this to be done out of the government tomorrow, at our next regular government meeting, so that it will arrive in the Senate in time to be completed before Christmas break? So I reiterate my inquiry to the highest level. Minister, if he is able to answer, what it would mean for the state radio business if the drop came. What does it mean for the State Radio if it's a TV bill? A minister can't make any progress? V.E.G. A minister must have a perspective on this from the agency and it's very important. Senators can see what that means if this bill doesn't enter the council and they don't get paid up. The highest. A minister informed us of this?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u5	A respectable president. I don't give a bill in the government unless I believe it'll be out of the government. Otherwise, a minister would not put in that bill, but there's a section of disembarking on this matter, there's nothing to be surprised about, which is shown in the current law that a new system of laws has to be assumed but mentioned in this bill. It should not be surprising that this is the division of meanings, but what does the reduction in the contribution mean? This can be seen by reading the report and the assessment that the Eythor Committee won. There, there is a very clear position of the State Radio management and the problems that are faced that include the origins of what I mentioned earlier, a much more expensive distribution system than intended, a higher pay raise than intended, a heavy debt load. During recent losses, the management and directors of the United Kingdom radio have been very much involved in the management of the Agency, including the Management Board and the Management Board. by reducing the cost of operating, as mentioned, so that the door - to - door cuts would be considered to be a very severe loss to the materials produced by the Agency. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u6	A respectable president. The prime minister, in effect, is the chairman of the advice of the older men and the desperate, for it is the government and the General who set the terms of these groups. Today, Generals and Ministers like many other groups in the country have been restored to a decision-making process from the spring. So I ask the prime minister if he does not intend to secure the elderly and the microorganism backtraces, as we have received, and as a number of other groups have been received in Icelandic society. If this decision has not already been made in the government, I would like to ask the prime minister if it is not being handled and if he does not consider it a fair matter that these large groups have no less pay correction in the current year than other members of the community, including the group sitting in this room. I remind you this has been done before. The pay was higher from the middle of the year in a more difficult economic situation than it is now. Today, it is a worldwide day for the disabled, and it is appropriate to ask questions about the standard of living for the disabled on that day and even for those who are disabled. the fundamental question is, Is it not our duty at the council and in the government to ensure that they are equal to other members of the community, whether it is not some of the most important equality for these groups that their wages increase from the same time as others? Or would it not be sad if we, who received a handsome bonus into our accounts of the past month's time, did not guarantee a comparable adjustment to those under us at the next month's convention? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u7	A respectable president. I agree with what I looked at as the main ingredient of inquiry. A member of the council that it is desirable to secure pensioners, older cities, and microchips with what we have been blessed with to ensure other populations in this community on the last loss, where buy power has increased more quickly the last loss than likely ever before in the history of the republic. They are now working on it. by means of the budget bill that is still being developed in the council to introduce the fastest dresser settlements these groups have seen for at least decades in one year, predicting inflation. It is so planned how this spreads over time, but when we look at the overall effect on the last losses and the future, these groups will likely improve as much as the ideals of other populations in the community. It is a matter of opinion which dates to be based on and which elevations to achieve the overall impact. But the overall effect is that these groups, like other groups of society, will enjoy that we have a government that has been able to improve the approval of all, create a basis for continued improvement for the entire public in the country. Hv. A senator, the public's interest in it is real, and including the groups it makes for publicity, must be glad that this has succeeded in creating conditions that can be improved even. older citizens and cripples are faster than other examples of later history.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u8	A respectable president. I wasn't asking the highest. Prime Minister about something in the future or about his next term. I'm asking the prime minister about the current year. In 2015. Keep these large groups, and the question is not complex. Prime Minister, to get raise at the same time as us, you and I, from the last spring, correct back in time? Or will the prime minister agree that these groups are losing out of 2015 and that most of the other groups in the country are going to suffer? Is it just a matter of exporting whether tens of thousands of people increase less than others in the country in 2015, and that is just the group that enjoys the poorest terms? No, a respectable prime minister. It is a matter of righteousness that those with the lowest wage, the elderly, and the poor will have at least the same elevations this year as the rest of us. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u9	A respectable president. You're right. A senator says, this is not complicated, but he does his best to complicate it. The amount of increase, whether in pay or in pension, is likely to take into account the time in which the increases are valid, i.e. The percentage increase will take into account the time in which the elevations are obtained. Reggressive increases result in a decrease in percentage and a higher percentage increase in the future. Therefore, we need to consider the final outcome of a dresser or an increase in pensions. Therefore, we must be glad that it is working in Iceland today to improve terms, especially those who have had the lowest income, faster, and more than ever before. Let's bear in mind, proper President, that the income gap has never been as small in Iceland as it is today. In the history of this government, congregations have increased. Of course, for those with a lower income, for older citizens, for disability, and for others other than the results of this government, it is possible to do even better, and we will continue on that course. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u10	President. I must first declare my disappointments to the highest degree. The prime minister did not answer. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar before. I find it very important to make sure that they are now clean and direct to the financial resources of the groups that have been chosen so that they will never make ends meet. Their letters drive me to the heart. The month ahead is very difficult for microadolescents and the elderly, the groups who need support from a insurance agency. I just have to say, I hope the senators have the strength to ensure that the ups are going back on like ours. Why is this so complicated? It wasn't complicated when our salary was high or what others paid. I know there's no clear answer from the Prime Minister on this matter, but it's our senators to make sure that it does. My request to the highest. Prime Minister has dates in connection with national requirements for a new constitution. I've calculated that the only way that a vote can be implemented along with the election is by the council to dismiss the matter on December 24. So I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister whether he is not interested in working with the rest of us at the council until the matter can be settled in a national fee. I guess you could say, "What's the big deal?" The prime minister to ensure that the meeting of a member of the Constitution was repeatedly postponed by some artificial meeting that has never resulted in the fact that it is almost impossible to do this at the same time with the election.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u11	A respectable president. I've heard it's a lot of people's food, not just why. A leader, that there's a chance of keeping the national bill along with the election. It is not all bad for humans to take the time needed to do these suggestions properly and to maintain them a special national law on this matter. It has been suggested that there are flaws in doing this along with the elections so that it is not necessarily bad to keep a special vote for change in the constitution. This should even be a cause for rejoicing. A manager I know is a great amateur for over-reaching records. I didn't quite understand what was going on. A senator was giving comments on postponing meetings in the Constitution committee. I don't preach a meeting on that committee, I don't control its committee, and I haven't picked up one of those meetings. However, it would be very helpful for this process to know everything, and interesting to know, for me and for those who are involved in this work on behalf of the various categories at the General Assembly, whether or not. A senator and her party have become alienated from the proposed ups and downsupposed that there is a solidarity of the change in constitution. Not long ago, however. A member of the same field of state to me whether the proposal for a change in constitution would definitely not be a government case. There was a completely new note based on what was suggested when this work started out, where the purpose of this discussion was to combine strings, to achieve the joint results of the council so that men could make these changes, developed a broad solidarity in the General Assembly in what would be the best way to change the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u12	President. I was just getting less of a top. According to the custom, the prime minister should move the highest. Prime Minister. I'd like to ask the highest. The prime minister, then, is it not absolutely certain that there is a budget for budgets when it becomes clear that the Constitutions will not be elected along with the election? If not, you intend to go to the highest. ▪ Does the adjustment arrangement make possible in order to ensure that a specific national law on the subject will be paid? I'd also like to ask if it's the highest. Since there has now been a major variation in the timing of this national pay, the openness of the work of the Committee, and the recommendations made by the committee should not be available to the public in order to provide their opinion. Is this going to happen at the Committee or in the conduct of a administrative and monitoring committee? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u13	A respectable president. Let me start by answering the second question. In fact, it tells itself that if there is a bill from this work, the public will be able to express their opinion of it when it is treated at the council. There will be opportunities to discuss this at the General Assembly and opportunities to make comments and comments to the council. In terms of the question of national pay, I was actually just saying. A senator, and you've heard more fights. According to members of the same opinion, it would be unlikely that this work would be completed before the election so that any changes could be made for votes and elections. [[Thanks to you.]] [[Up front.]] At the same time, I pointed out that it was not all bad, even though the matter was being handled by a special national law. Of course, when it comes to it, arrangements must be made to enable us to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u14	A respectable president. In the 2016 budget bill, the cost of hunting is set up at 5 billion and 322 billion. K. This year. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister on how this fee is to a historical minimum already under the Ministry of Economic Affairs when, as he well knows, the fishing route is in a winding rise. The cost of fishing was 43 billion last year. The company paid themselves 13.5 billion dollars. last year's profit. Is it natural that the money for the nation really is 0K?? As we know, a lot goes from the state to the seabed itself. Happily, we are running around the waters of the sea, which, of course, cost us much. There are institutions, such as Marine Research Institutes, which contribute to sustainable fishing, some of which are land - care providers looking at sea for survival, that is, a Fish Lab, a Grouping Room, and, of course, some of the marine espionage department. Is it normal that when things go so well, the costs just go in the water, and the people get an 0. In his pocket?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u15	A respectable president. That was a bit of a small calculation. A senator introduced here. This is what President Reagans of the United States came to be called voodoo economics or voodoo statistics, getting it out of the water in Iceland by 0k. Because we need to run a ministry and guard the fishing grounds and landways and have a Oceanographic Institute to pursue sustainable fishing. A respectable president. First, the question about the fishing fee and how it is estimated, it will take into account the criteria that can be assumed to be on the market and in this article in general in the coming year. It is very difficult to estimate this of some accuracy, but it is now with many things that people always have to give themselves some basis and plan from them. This plan suggests that, as in the past few years, European seas will provide significant financial resources directly in the form of fishing costs to the State. But besides that, and this seems a reason. A senator completely forgets, providing billions of the way to the community in the form of investments, remuneration, a whole layer of the seabed industry itself, as well as the companies that in one way or another are connected to the marine road, and they are quite many. In recent years, there has been a great deal of growth and investment and development of new high - tech jobs. So the fishing industry in Iceland yields vast amounts of valuable things to society. This differs from that of other nations in Europe and, in fact, most nations of the world, all the peoples of OECD, in the form of examples. In all the OECD countries, the way to the sea is the means of government. The Kingdom needs to support the fishing work. In fact, in Norway the state pays about 20 points. Icelandic kronos, or so on, each part of a ton while Iceland is run by sustainable fishing routes into terms of nature, which earns community income in a number of ways. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u16	A respectable president. I have to turn all talk about voodoo economics or voodoo calculations straight to the Fathers' houses. [[Take it up to the voodoo champion.]] It's actually on the bill from the highest level. Secretary of finance, from you, my husband, and the Ministry of finance has the best information about this situation at any time. Now it may be that the account will be somehow different at the end of the year, but then I want to point out that the years 2013 and 2014 held up plans as they were made in the early projections of the previous year. So we'll see how it goes. It's the highest. Minister to say it's okay, that it's acceptable, that the box comes out on the plain? Because we're not government-making the water, are we good at keeping water in it? [[The president calls.]] Is it all right when the fishing road gives itself 13.5 billion dollars? In profit?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u17	President wants to ask why. Parliaments to respect and apply the appropriate comments and rules of conduct at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u18	A respectable president. I have to reiterate what I told you earlier that it is completely preposterous to insist that seafood does not bring anything to the community, overlooking all the investments that take place in this article, all their revenues in the form of corporate profits, in the form of earnings of earnings, earnings of valuable tax in the form of export prices, in the form of fishing fees. A respectable president. You don't know how to answer such a dumb question. However, I refer here to correct a respectable senator on budgetary of 2016 on page 15: Fishing fees, payment base: 9.430 million. K.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u19	Mr. President. I am deeply concerned about the inhabitants of the city of Rhines and the possibilities of town to provide the necessary services in every community. This town owes over 40 billion dollars. and the demanding goats seek their own. In effect, demands have kept the town hostage. Among the demands are a government bank, municipal loans, and pension funds owned by the people. They insist on their own. They don't give anything to deal with the town. Already, one of the pensions has refused to participate in a debt that has to be exorbitant so that the town can correct it. The insistents refuse to take responsibility for having made their own decision to lend with the hope of paying off. That hope was virtually based on the dreams of independent persons in a town government that was not likely to be fulfilled. Now they lie in charge of the town books and demand that the new town government do more harm than has already been done. They demand similar cuts today, and their service to children and to those who are ill in the community is more severe. For example, they demand increased cuts in all fields, in schools, in elementary schools, in music schools, in the assistance of the town with disabled people, and this service has already been cut down very much. I'm asking if the highest. The prime minister will use a solution to the problem of the inhabitants of the city of Rhines and how he feels that the government and his government should contribute to the complex problems facing the inhabitants and those who now run the town.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u20	A respectable president. Of course, my fellow ministers and I in the government are monitoring the situation in the city of Smokejanes and other rural communities who have struggled with a difficult financial situation in the past loss and years. But there's a reason. A senator would suggest that the prime minister be included in contracts for the country's credit rates, or in what way they should pay their debts? I don't think so. A senator sees it as an arrangement, or as an arrangement. A senator, a temporary minister of finance, feels that a minister of finance is desirable to tell how rural or other people should pay off their debts or enter the contracts of rural society. On the other hand, it lies before and before. A senator knows that there are certain ways to help rural society with debt problems. It is a process that then takes place that they will not be able to cope with their debt. We hope, of course, that the town of Smokenes will be able to bridge the gap, since the country society has an enormous opportunity for the future, and we have to expect that farm crews, whether they are pension funds or anyone else, will give it a chance to use them for the future, since it is certainly best for everyone that the country society can use the opportunity and gain more value. Thus, they can best live up to their debt.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u21	Mr. President. I'm not sure it's the highest. The prime minister found himself in a real situation in the city of Rhines. I think things are so that the kingdom must come right away. I want to recall that in 2006, when the military changed their place. Over two years later, in the financial breakdown, the Southnes paid a higher toll than the citizens of other areas, and now they are dealing with the inequities of independence to the local government for the past election period and the irresponsible loan of demands. So I want to ask the highest. Whether the community has such a problem, the prime minister believes that he does not agree. By means of a clear, specific solution to the problem that could not be compared to the problems that other rural communities have faced.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u22	A respectable president. I would now have thought that a former financial minister was well aware of the problem society in many parts of the country has faced financially in recent years, and many of them have done so with considerable success. As an example of Bolungarvík, who was a very bad company but has managed to straighten out the cow. As for Smokejanestown, I reiterate what I pointed out earlier that we now see how much opportunity we can face in that town, especially because of a much better economic situation and a much better view of the economy of the country. There's a much better prospect now than there is already. A senator was a minister of finance, but he did not see a reason for the government to intervene in some way. But, hey. A senator forgot to explain in a way that the State should intervene, not even refusing to include a financial minister or prime minister on loans. I asked specifically if it was why. A senator means that. There was no answer. It is clear, however, that opportunities are there for the local community, and especially because the economy has been restored.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u23	V.E.G. President. This involved extending licenses to the lottery for less than 20 years, to 2034. An international reference work notes that changes do not take place around lotteries in this country, but it also states that there is a decision to examine this case as a whole. It's supposed to be a celebration. The environment of the lottery is what counts. As Minister of the Interior State, I presented a bill with a clear vision of the future of the lottery, the lottery business, the slot machines, and the casinos that are still badly fired in the country. I would have considered it important, and the representative of the left movement a ◯ green supply of the General Commission has specifically stated that the vision of this category lay ahead of us before we give these sources. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, I do not trust to vote for this vote, but will sit by in the hope that this will be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u24	V.E.G. President. Here we are solely extending this license to 2034. That's a long time, indeed. We discussed this only on the committee, and we received an explanation from the Ministry. Because of the security and planning of the work, it is considered necessary to extend these sources in time. It was observed yesterday's discussion that we are going to call the hearing back to the committee and talk to the individuals who have certainly called on them. Many people want to enter and be included in enjoying the rights of these sources. At the same time, it has been stated clearly that all laws will be reviewed. The minister has expressed it, the greater part has been particularly delighted in his committee program, and we will, of course, observe and follow up on the progress of this work in the Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u25	President. In Iceland gambling is forbidden by law, and this is an exception. So I would have liked to see an exception to other gambling issues. This is where we open the door for the complete removal of these laws. It is very easy to become addicted to playing Lotto or a slot machines FYE and then be treated for compulsive gambling in SA. I feel hypocritical about such legalization and enforcation, and I'd like to see that the next time we took it, we would simply cancel the prohibition against gambling.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u26	V.E.G. President. It's not much in size, but it's much bigger in size. This bill is an important step in recognition of the rights of children, broken by human rights in the past. With these laws, the right thing must now be tried. I state that the representatives of all the political parties of the Council are on this matter, as well as on my part. Councilmen Elín Hirst, Helgi Hjörvar, Birgitta Jónsdóttir, Willum Þór son of Þórsson, and Brynhildur, the daughter of Pétursdóttir. It is a pleasure to know that the board of directors will bring about a work programme. paritaprevir The Miss Brá of Konráðsdóttir's daughter agrees with the opinion of the matter. How happy we all are to meet together in this matter! [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u27	President. I just want to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Ögmundur the son of Jónasson for bringing this matter to a conclusion, and I'm glad the council is about to complete the case. I have been waiting a very long time for the council to fail. I have to say, but it's a good thing it's happening today and even if it's been before. I also want to say that we should do more when we agree on some things to get them through the Generals. It's so important both for the working spirit in here and for the community as a whole.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u28	A respectable president. I'd like to recommend a larger part of the legal committee, but a signature as well as mine. Councilmen of Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson, Daðason Eminundon, Haraldur Benediktsson son of Benedict, Páll Jóhann Pálsson, and Valgerður Gunnarsdóttir. This committee also provides changes in shapes found on panels. 529, 530, 531, 532, 533, 533. I'd like to ask senators to study them because there's a modification proposal for all aspects of the bill in terms of the income and charge gate, as well as for the changes to the budgets and the 6th articles. The Committee has had the bill under discussion since November 10 last and has been contacted by a representative of the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs to review its major aspects. The Committee has also sought explanation on individual remunerations by obtaining a representative of the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Education and Culture, and the Ministry of Professional Residents. The committee has specifically examined three issues related to the bill, the ones most discussed during the 1st Environment Convention. First, the development of expenses and funding for the security sector following the European refugee problem. The State Department has considered this matter at a committee meeting. Second, a comprehensive proposal for a warrant for Iceland's establishment was given to the Asian Investigation Bank. Third, representatives of the Road Make-up came to the Committee because of the proposal for budgets in the bill. A total of 5,3 billion dollars make much more of the item a change. to increase income and 5.0 billion dollars. to increase the pay. Thus, in the bill, or about 0.3 billion dollars, drift currents slightly increase. Looks like the return of the Kingdom treasure will be somewhat better than expected in the budget of the year, which is a cause for joy. A total of 31.7 billion will now be expected to make the income of the state's budget. above estimates, but to the extent that expenses increase by 14.4 billion. Following the release of Iceland's Habitat of a new national interest project on November 13, the Ministry of Economics and Economics has recalculated the income of state funds, taking place in changes in the bill. All changes made on the income side are done in consultation with the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs. Two main explanations are that budgeting is now increasing by a total of 31.7 billion dollars. On the one hand, collective agreements, high professional levels, and ideal national interest have led to an estimate that both individual and corporate income taxes and profits are now estimated to result in a total of 15.1 billion costs. upstuffs from the embezzlement. However, a total of 10.2 billion dollars are now anticipated. ... fromlaws. It is one of the most significant contributions from the Bank of Iceland, which accounts for about 15 billion dollars. On the contrary, a lower income payment from Iceland's Central Bank. A tribute tax and other tax payings for goods and services are considered to be about 6.6 billion. a higher income, but in spite of the past year's budget, the budget has been collected under budget and is therefore reduced in the bill. Increased numbers were observed in the collection of October months, and based on this estimates, the income of a value tax increase by 6 billion dollars. Other changes in the income side are either due to an increase or decrease, much less than the conditions mentioned. At the remuneration rate, unless the change is made to a greater portion of 5 billion. The biggest change is 3.5 billion. up-to-date expenses to meet the impact of the incidences of ideal nurses and BHM members and collective agreements made in the late part of the year. The other major changes are at first 835 million. K. increase in health insurance after reassessment of the legal expenses, of which 470 million. K. due to drug costs, 200 million. K. for dentists and for 165 million. K. training. Second, a donation to the National Church goes up by 370 billion. K. and the increase in the budget will be calculated according to the original church meeting and thereby all the maintenance requirements for the National Church since and 2009 will be canceled in 2015. This agreement was entered during the last terms of the earlier government, and now it is the role of this government to fulfill the agreement made with the church in 1997. The priorities of the proposal are that the State makes it a requirement for the church to commit itself to initiate when negotiations of the church meeting will include a review of all the financial relations of the state and church, including on terms of parishes, the payment of parishes, contributions to church funds and the Christian Fund, with a significant simplicity of this communication and management as a goal. Third, interest costs increase by 421 billion. K. according to the re-evaluation schedule. Fourth, contributions to the County Fund under the law are raised by a percentage of taxes. Fifth, a total of 288 million dollars are funded by tax markets. K. Other increases in road weights are less likely. In turn, contributions to unemployment will decrease by 500 million. K. Based on projections of less unemployment, it is a source of great joy that unemployment has declined in the recent year. Then there are proposals that funding taxes, which are paid by the state fund, will drop by 290 million. K. The nature of the case, all of this is financial suggestions for calculating these teams. There is a check on proposals to increase the pay in the bill due to government expenses, public rights, and improvement in violations as a total of 837 million. K. or 17% of the total yield of the bill. A frequent decline in the posts of these financiers in the final budget has been observed and a greater proportion is explained to a large extent by the fact that in recent years sufficient measures have not been taken to reduce the growth of these financiers far beyond the financial and pay period. For years the budget has repeatedly called attention to the specific role of budgets, which are under the law of No. 88/1997, on government income, shall be limited to unavoidable issues, particularly unforeseen occurrences, the effects of new labour agreements or new legislation during the year, but not reaching plans for new projects, increased scope of activities, or, for example, individual institutions' domains. The majority of them believe that it was different for them to hold on to their plans in times of trial and more often than not for a lack of discipline in the national system to adapt the budget for financial management. In the years before collapse, the size of the remunerations of budgets was often between 5 to 68% of the budget, which has generally declined in recent years. This year, the ratio is 3.4%, which is less often than before, but it can be better if required. Had it not been necessary to add a budget because of reassessment of the employees, the ratio would have been 2.8%, but this has only been lower in recent years. In this regard, the more part draws attention to the fact that there are several examples of suggestions in the bill that is not sure to fall under the terms of budgets. Consider, for example, 60 billion. K. additional contributions due to the accumulated problems of several music schools, 45 million. K. to pay for the services of the Norwegian communications company Telenor and contributions to the campaign, such as to speed up the treatment of trust. Two important matters were presented in spring by a body board, right after a government discussion, and the majority consider that a role model. That was 850 million on the other hand. K. added to the tourism budget and 1,300 billion, respectively. K. to the road construction of the road because of the challenges of the road. The majority also calls attention to the fact that we are about 2nd. of a bill for budgeting for 2015 was adopted to give the Kingdom News 182 billion. K. A condition of additional management initiative. The budget was also subject to the implementation of economic restructuring of the Kingdom News and the payment of the funds, depending on the implementation of effective management programmes, which would show how the Agency's work would be properly restored and made sustainableally and permanently. This meant that there should be a budget for the operation to be overstepped by the Minister's Committee on State Money. The majority have not been given satisfying answers to the job. The government of the State Radio has dealt confidentially with the form of a bond written on the market, but the majority feel that this view can be met. At the same time, the Council of Ministers has not agreed with the Agency's management programmes. Nevertheless, the greater part has agreed that underdeveloped funds will not be retracted, as there is a firm desire for the government to do so. At the same time, changes to the increase in radio pay on the income side are not expected to run as a bill for State Radio. I don't remember that money about 50 million. K. The bill has a suggestion for allowing RUS Ohf. to negotiate with Reykjavíkurburg for sale of property rights and to defend the value in order to reduce the debt of the company. The majority stress that the entire value of sales will be spent to reduce debt but will not contribute to the community's contribution. As a result, there is an overview of the suggestions that came from the government on the basis that I studied in my speech just before. Here, too, are the suggestions that more of the legal committees have taken into account and are here in these adjustments. All I did was tap into a big deal about the work that the greater part was doing and I thought I'd meet the criteria for the budgetary laws. It's even there. Thirty million. K. budget for the University of Akureyri. We made a decision to put 20 million. K. to the State Department of Prison because of the financial cost and cutdowns of the former government and suggest that this heavy business be partially improved. That's a lot of pleasure. As I mentioned above, further suggestions are provided from the smaller sections that can be read in this committee. I also remind you that there are quite a number of adjustments made in one of four Parliamentary documents that will come to abdicate at the end of the discussion. We're about to begin a second. about budgets for 2015 and, of course, will be there in the Senate Hall if there are any questions that I need to address.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u29	Mr. President. In the community, there has been much discussion about the interest of elderly ones and poor people. The supreme number of criticisms has been severed. The government does not want the improvement of the elderly and the disability of the elderly to increase from May 1 as did the lowest wage, as agreed in treaties on the general market last spring. The lowest pay according to these contracts increased from May 1 by 10.9%. The requirement has been to appoint older citizens and disability to follow that rise since May 1. Then a new proposal from a greater part of the budget committee would have to be developed in that case, and if these rises are to be done back in time from May 1, it costs 6,575 billion, and the rest, and the total equation for 2015, there is over 20 billion under budget. Surely, then, there is a table for responding to this requirement. This year's report contains an excellent image that shows a very good improvement in social security compared to minimum wage. In 2014, the rate was just 100% and the improvement was 1.6% higher. The 2015 Information Agency's annual report will show these groups well below the minimum minimum and also show how they qualify to meet with the highest decision. Governments don't pay the benefits back in time. I'm asking why. The chairman of the legal committee whether she had felt that it was better and more reasonable for her to make a change. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u30	A respectable president. What a joy it would have been if the United States Parliament's members had had that zeal for the last terms and concern for older citizens and micropowers, as shown in 2015! Under their government, for the first time, these foundations, a respectable president, and they were impaired, instead of making a small attempt to bring money to the demands, such as the government that has now been employed. No, these groups were not spared during their last term, a respectable president. But it is to be said that in this category, as is so many others, the government that now operates under the highest authority. The Prime Ministers of Sigmundur, the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, conducted and improved these groups and improved the declines of the last government, so to speak. That's the truth, a respectable president, and I'll say it as often as I need to. About the question from what? Harðardóttir I thank you very much for that. She's looking for a response from me as the chairman of a financial committee. There's an adjustment proposal in the council from what happened. paritaprevir The new Oddný Harðardóttir and others, who are going to be raised back in time to 5,904 million. K. to improve the benefit of these groups. My answer to that is, a respectable president: Let's just put it to the test in the votes here at the council and see how it goes. But the motion is made.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u31	Mr. President. There's no point in correcting a problem. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir's daughter once more in this regard, and we will not be better off arguing over what was done and what has not been done during the last term. I don't think that's why. A senator, chairman of a legal committee, is to compare the situation in terms of government then existing and with the current position. First thing. A senator would like to take us back in time to remind us that, after 2011, changes were made back in time, i.e. poorer people and older people were improved as soon as people in a general labour market. The meetings of the budget have been identified, which is why. A senator has heard that this is the only time it has been done. In the case of the left government, aged and desperate men and women received restitutions as well as other citizens of the land. But now that government funds are standing much better, the government will not be able to make a suggestion. Actually, our change in the memory of the section translates a total of 6,575 billion bucks, so it's now corrected here, but I thought it was a problem. A senator, chairman of the budget board, suggests that perhaps it would support the changes made in the section's memory. I want to pray. A senator to speak more clearly in his next answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u32	A respectable president. I appreciate that answer. Hv. A senator asked me to come back with him and review the situation here when the left government was under control. It was just so that they were taken into the foundation of society, cut down bloody surgery, whether they were older citizens, disability, health, road or education systems, and so on. It always points to a financial breakdown. In the time of the last government, it was not hesitant to move funding from basics to nicknames. I would mention, for example, the cost of an EU application. For example, I mention an expensive attempt to change the constitution there. [[Up front.]] I mention a steady budget into bank system failures, such as SpKef, Byr, Sóvá, capial history, and whatever. This depends on tens of billions of people who went out of the window during the last terms, while the basics were cut down. This is the fact, and it is very difficult for the same person to face it now. Here is a commission, such as the budget of the last year after I became chairman of the legal committee. The magnitude of the rise in these groups has been clearly established and is calculated to the date of recovery. These two groups receive 9.7% at this time of the year. A respectable president. I am very happy that the government is improving these groups, as well as others, the failures that occurred in the history of the left government. [[The president calls.]] Now this group has joined the remuneration team.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u33	Mr. President. I'm measuring the opinion of my share of the budget. The opening section of the bill identifies the role of the budget and I would like to quote it, Mr. President: ▪ With the sentence of law No. 88/1997, on government income, and in a report by that bill, the General gave clear direction on the role and content of budgets. This includes assuming that all predictable budgets will be provided in budgets but that financial contributions will be sought to provide resources that could not be provided under budgets. It clearly states in the financiers that the budget is for projects that can't be provided on budget handling. Such financial provisions are primarily designed to address the inevitable issues, particularly for unscheduled incidents, the effects of new labour agreements or new legislation in the year, but not for plans for new projects, increased scope of activity, or e.g. The Management Board of individual states over set budgets, as it is recommended in the law to refer to such guidelines for changes in budgets to cover budgets for next year's budget. As you read the bill, Mr. President, it is clear that there are some suggestions in the bill that were seen and therefore do not belong in the bill for financial support. Hv. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, president of the budgetary committee, did well with regard to basic changes, covered basics, interest equations, and overall equations. The total balance in 2015 will be 20.9 billion. which is 17,3 billion more than was expected in financial terms. This is primarily because money was not well - planned. In addition, financial exchange points to the late 2015 budget, which is soon to end, but the contribution of the correction bill as to the budget should be made in this respect. The budget of December 2014 expected the Lands Bank to return 6 billion dollars. In return for the treasure of the state. In February 2016, his bank government set out a fee that was accepted soon thereafter at the main meeting and took the share of the State Fund in it of 26.6 billion dollars. 17.9 billion dollars. more interest is being paid, but the budget is presented. Considering that the ownership share of the state funds at the Lands Bank at the end of 2014 was 97.9%, but it increased to 98.2% due to the bank of the Western Savings and the North Bank at the Lands Bank in 2015 and to the financial and economic ministers he must criticize that a minister has not made more accurate schemes for interest. In this regard, we are reminded that the bank's budget was less accurate this year. Then the bank paid nearly 21 billion dollars. The wealth of money, but it was assumed that his financial contributions to the state's funds were sensitive to 6 billion dollars. In addition, it may be noted that in 2016 the Lands Bank is expected to deliver a 7.1 billion bill. In return for the treasure of the state. For example, 2013's budget expected interest payments from the Lands Bank to 9.6 billion, but 2013's funds added 342 million. It was negligible. 2014 budgets expected only 6 billion in profits from the Lands Bank, but the 2014 budget added to 14,955 billion. K. It was a program error in 2014. Then, in 2015, a budget of 7.7 billion was expected, but the additional bill we address here is a total of 17,900 million. K. Funds for 2016 expect only over 7 billion in profit from the Lands Bank, but the one listed here clearly believes that the clumps will be much greater than we are discussing in 2015 budgets. This is not a good plan. It's not just a careful estimates, it's a plan, I have to say, so it's been so much over the past few years, and it's more likely to be expected in 2016. If the bank is reimbursed for a year, it can be clear that money actually becomes much higher, as the committee's list of smaller ones, so that even billions of dollars can be spent. The minority criticizes how difficult it is to plan interest payments on financial assets. The bill shows that selling stock and property does not result in $35.5 billion. ..................... The memory is critical that large amounts of money were expected to come to a government fund during the year, as shown by the 35.5 billion that were to come in for sale on the Bank of America. Other payments proved to be about 3 billion dollars. lower than was expected in financial terms. The majority of the abnormality is due to the Bank of Iceland, and it has to be assumed that the government also has the means to plan the bank's currency accurately, which is shown in budgets. That's when more part required 700 million. K. it is not possible to take this money out of the business, although it has been obvious that the company's huge investment needs were standing at the door and that it could not be taken out of the business. The bill we are discussing here is expected to contribute to the European Commission's European Commission's budget of tourism to places owned or the administration of the State is increasing by 850 million. K. plus 12.2 million. K. Add to the adjustment proposals for 2nd. due to higher income from host tax. The amount was 45.8 billion. K. The budget of the year. The minority stressed that this amount did not grow in discussions about bill for 2015 and that it was clearly necessary to add funds to budgets. Exactly the same thing happened when working on a bill for 2014 and becomes the minority of expressing their amazement at how badly the government is planning for these teams in budgets. V.E.G. The financier specifically introduced to a budget committee last spring that the government agreed to place increased funding in the tourist trade and road management budget, which was then adopted at a government meeting. The smaller portion cannot agree with the greater part that this type of work is a special model, for financial contributions are being put on budgets. By means of financial contributions, there is a violation of the State's budget. There is no unforeseen or unexpected outcome. That's the best. A financial minister introduces the plans for a financial committee is of no consequence. I just think it's a scandal that those executives who approved a budget bill for 2015 agree to one loud volume of 45.8 million. K. to implement tourist attractions when each person saw that this amount would never be enough. Everyone realized that the road system had to be added and that it was done many times during a discussion, but everything did not happen. The budget is used to improve the government's handles. That's a bit of a scandal, I must say. By the end of 2014, the road type 17.2 billion dollars went down negative to their own money. The bill applies for nearly 3 billion dollars. The financing of Vega is corrected to change the share's proposals from the production of the bill, showing that the negative money of Vega is rising by about 1.1 billion dollars. but is not financed by direct contributions, as the bill indicated. The government decided to provide $3.3 billion. to strengthen and sustain the road system because of the massive tourist stream to the country, and chose four benefits. 400 million is to fall through. A.K., to Vessel Pass 400 million. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. K. 200 million Uxascian Road. K. It was clear to us that raising money to the road was necessary. The lesser part severely criticizes the fact that a decision in front of us was passed on by a traditional decision - making process. Then the budget is not sufficient to settle the road to the service team in an adequate way. There's about 406.7 million. K. to the office of special prosecutor, but the bill states that according to law No. 47/2015, the change in criminal treatment and police law, will result in the office of special prosecutors down to the end of 2015, while a new district attorney takes up the work of 1 January 2016. On July 1, 2015, a new district attorney was originally expected to operate, but during the Conventional procedure, the law's execution was suspended until a year. The financial cost of the new office was not estimated, but it would have been reasonable to transfer them to special prosecutors if they had been available. The minority criticize that the cost of money has not been estimated. It cannot be said that unexpected expenses are involved, and the bill does not specify the cost of projects that are being paid by special prosecutors cannot be completed during the year. It is authorized to pay for the services of the Norwegian communications company Telenor, which has been in budgets for the past few years. Regular payments should not be on budgets. The changes in the more part of the bill for budgeting in 2016 are finally assumed to be in the budget. Some 298 million proposals are proposed. K. raising the budget for public affairs due to the decision of the Court of Justice that went into effect at the end of January II, following the payment of budgets for 2015. There is a significant rise in the terms of the defenses and the appendages of the Guards. The minority criticize the fact that the decisions made by the Council are noticed that the budget is available. In order to correct the inevitable angle of the decision, the proposed funds are needed. The bill asks for 1,834 million. K. 11 p.m. medical expenses. There are 1,172 million of them. K. On the basis of a contract with expert physicians. The contract was not expected to result in increased budgets for state funds but was made on the grounds that the patient's return due to the Constitution of Iceland's Social Insurance, which is subtracted from the state's budget, would be increased by a change in Regulation so that the financial share of patients would remain a unchanged share of the patient since 2013, i.e. 42%. However, the rules have not yet been changed and are estimated to exceed the budget for the state's budget, due to a total of 1,200 billion. K. This year according to the calculations of Iceland's Medical Insurance. They calculate the share of health insurance by 31.7%, which is the same ratio as in 2010. The memory serves as a reminder that the Regulation was not changed on account of business management in 2014, as expected in budgets and is therefore a total budget of over 2 billion dollars. Because of the government's decision. Although the minority has always been opposed to this objective of the government and thought that the contract should be funded by a direct donation from the government fund, it must be made a comment in this government lawsuit. The minority feels that it includes poor management and a lack of respect for law and rules when a minister uses a certain financial project twice and then tries to call it back a few months later in financial aid. Thus, it has been twice the will of a majority of the council to collect dues, but several months later the government is using the support of the above - mentioned things to change their wishes. It'd be called a round-and-a-half operation, Mr. President. The goal of child development is to balance the status of a child's family with 600 million. K. which were designed for the project are removed by means of the budget. The cut-off rate increased in 3% to 4% of the wages for one child, from 5% to 6% for two children, and from 7% to 8% for three or more children. This change made a fiscal fixer and reduced the overall expenditures as compared to the changes that resulted in an increase. During the pressures of public pay 2015, child damages took over 10 billion dollars. and is somewhat lower than the budget of 2015. It turns out, in my opinion, that the declines were too great and that children's positions were not equal to the target range. The minority believes that with the bill, financial and economic ministers had the power to provide scenarios that showed the objective of distributing this capital between social groups, how it was actually spread, and how it explained the variation that is evident in this massive subsidies. The minority feels that there was a revised policy of distribution in the year so that the government funds would have improved the survival of those who were least allowed according to the sum approved by the Council for the project. It has not been demonstrated that the aims have been reached so that it is undisputed and justified in canceling this funds into the state fund. The same is true of growth improvements, estimated to reduce the financial burden of household buyers, but the budget is suggested to cover the cost of 200 million. K. And they go into the treasure of the kingdom. The main explanation is that households' overall weight gain increased by 8%, thereby increasing the network of households in housing, resulting in subsidies for the property. The domestic status improved, but there was no improvement in pay status as there was a calculated improvement. The minority feels that the limits of property reduction had to be reduced because of this in order to improve household survival. Furthermore, the smaller portion believes that the same pattern needs to be published as shown by the child - making process. Mr. President. The reduction in fishing costs by more than 2 billion, in view of the 2015 budget, is mainly attributed to changes in legal requirements that match their pressures over the fishing year and beyond that. During the 2015/2016 fishing year, a monthly fishing fee will be paid and due to the fishing of the second month. Thus, instead of largely placing the fees on the hands of the legislatures at the beginning of the fishing year and then collecting four equally paid days, such as the preparation for fishing in 2014/2015. As a result, fishing costs get lower on the calendar year 2015 or more of the fish catcher year 2015/2016 will land in 2016. In this regard, the minority reminds us that the government has dropped the fishing rate substantially since its acceptance, as shown in a picture in the Commission's opinion. The table shows the hunting fees. In 2008, there were no hunting fees, 2009 being 170 billion. A.J., 2010 1,250 million. Dec. 2011 2,470 million. K. and 2012, when the change was made, 7,830 million. K. In 2013 the number was 13,490 million. K. Then, a new government began to drop the fishing charges, resulting in 2014 being 9,770 million. K. and 2015 according to the budget bill, just over 5 hours ago. A million. K. This transformation takes place when it has never had as good a time, and it has never returned to those who are approved of discounts, I allow myself to say, as much profit as possible. The production yields a profit of another tens of billions. This is truly critical, Mr. President, but it is in harmony with the right government's decisions when it comes to reducing the nation's resources and those who have it better in the community. By means of budget for 2013, the General Assembly adopted an investment programme in 2013 to be a year ago. It was presented as a basis for the restoration of much of the funds offered to restore the banking system and for new laws on fishing and fishing costs to the nation's growing share of the exploiting of marine resources. The plan was based on the fact that in the post-durging situation, it would be wise to make use of a share of bank profits and some of the resource costs to invest in community infrastructure, in the public service. The new government, to the extent that it had not been funded, knocked off the whole plan. However, changing funds suggested by the General Assembly to agree with budgets and fishing fees makes it clear that the investment plan was funded and much more. The facts and figures speak for themselves, Mr. President, in this respect. It calls to mind an understatement of Article 7.13 where Iceland's agricultural university is authorized to increase its share by 3.7 million. K. ... intheHvannarf'sEhf. which was formerly called Grímhag ehf. and recently changed her name, but not her social security number. It's a part of the reorganization of the company, but it hasn't worked as well. The minority stresss that the Ministry of Education and Culture monitors reorganization to produce the desired results. Mr. President. The minority makes one change, and it's about the interest of older citizens and disability. As a result of the change in the share's size, a reasonable proposal is made that older citizens and disability will be added according to the increase in minimum wage and pay increases from May 1 this year as in general pay. It is suggested that the cost be nearly 6.6 billion. a donation to improve the interests of older citizens and disability. Under the view of my section, you will write along with the one listed above. paritaprevir Brynhildur Pétursdóttir. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u34	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir A new Oddný Harðardóttir for the speech. I wanted to return to her because she spoke of an investment plan of the last government and spoke of the projects presented in the 2013 election law and believed that the 2013 investment plan of the previous government had been fully funded. A respectable president. I refuse this statement. Among other things, the plan was to be based on a substantial increase in fishing costs and plan for the fishing resource. The co-ordinated government of 2007/2013, for six years, has kept its policy in its policy to be completely watered up by the fishing system because it is so impossible, according to their opinion. They didn't come up with any of the six years that the Conspiracy served in the government. Therefore, I would like to ask the senator: How can you say that this investment plan has been rewarded when there was no desire for the government to turn anything into the fishing system other than to raise the budget? It was impossible for humans to implement their course, which went on the expiration route, which they promised at least in two elections. At the same time, I would like to ask the senator how to talk about the full - time investment plan when it was assumed that the state fund would recover a large portion of the money used to restore the banking system, when it was hardly a demand for banks in 2015. It was as if everyone knew, a respectable president, was built on high ceilings. It would be good for the senator to respond and make clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u35	Mr. President. Now I'm so lucky that at my table in the Senate Hall, I have an investment plan for the year 2013,2015. It lists a number of projects that would surely have mattered to the inhabitants of this land that had been carried out during those years. I'll count some of them later if I have time. During the three years, the financing was over 5 billion a year of our anticipated fishing fees and was under budgeted for 2013 over 13 billion. We assumed that more than five would go to the investment plan, but even after the reduction of the right government on the fishing fee in the largest pantheon of the industry, the price would still have been worth the price. It was then assumed that each year about 7 billion of the bank's money was spent on an investment plan during the three years. That would certainly have been true because in 2013 of the 10 billion banks, nearly 21 billion in 2014, and 25.6 billion in 2015. Could be the whisk. The chairman of a legal committee claims that the plan for investment has not been financed when the figures yell at us from that bill as a matter of course. A senator living up here?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u36	A respectable president. I really enjoy this discussion. I would like to say, though, at the outset, that interest is not at all the same as a stock budget planned for this investment plan. Then, in 2013, there was elections, and a new government was made so memorable, and the left groups were elected from power, as everyone knows. It is also a great dink to speak of spending as the highest fishing fee on the fishing project, as was certainly done during the last term. The left government was successful, as it were. It's this interaction that I sometimes find socioleal ecoons, and those who follow the direction of the left greens do not quite realize that when the currency is at its height, such as a fishing policy, there is less in the company to pay income taxes. Of course, that was the case when we began to consider these matters when the present government began ruling. At that time, the fishing cover was so removed that the companies did not pay taxes to the government funds. This is what this equation looks like, but it's better for a left man to fuck with our head work. It is their art, and they certainly know it. Thus, it was indeed used here during the last terms, the fishing exports were spoken in speech, and literature at any time, as they continue to speak handsomely now as we know. The people of the country know better that fishing is the foundation of the nation's currency industry, and the fishing road is a major source of money to the community in the form of income tax from the industry, and it does not forget tax on the interest paid. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u37	Mr. President. The left government's investment plan led to that speech. Senator. I can feel her words that she doesn't know the plan, so I'll give her information about her when I'm finished here. As I went over the years, the figures in the bill we are discussing clearly show that the investment plan was fully financed. I'd like to read up here what a project was under there. It was said that transport is up to 7.5 billion and that it is a means of strengthening research, technology, and goal plans. Each year, 2013, 2014, and 2015 were to be set up in the national conventions program 1,200 million each year. This is certainly a regional policy that would have mattered, but, of course, the right administration of this plan knocked off the board and now has a few million on national parish programmes that everyone was pleased with and called for money. [[Up front.]] We're talking about tourism here. Building tourist positions, Mr. President, does anyone know that? $1,500 million. K. It's the insides of a peace-infested region, 750 million. K. It refers to creative articles. They refer to the green economy as well as to various real estates, such as the prison at Hólmsheh, Herlf, the National Science Building, the House of English Education, the Museum of Nature, a show. The University of Akureyri is referred to as a source of comfort and a contribution to rent - room living. All of this is a national cleaning project, and if the plan had been followed as expected by the left government, the situation would be much better, both in the capital area and in the country. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u38	Mr. President. There's a reason to review the history of the government in Iceland for the past few years. Of course, listening to reason is always the same. That Vigdís Hauksdóttir, president of the budget board, talks about these matters in no way connected with reality, as it were. A senator is already believed to be fighting e.g. dealing with the government's budget in the last term. Hv. A senator would like to recall that it was elected in Iceland in April 2013. Yeah, you're absolutely right. That is why it is almost three years ago. Yet there is a reason. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir in the past. Yet, there is its top priority here in the public hearing, a government that retired more than two and a half years ago. [[Up front.]] The most important thing, Mr. President, is that we Icelanders will be dealing with the financial situation in the hands of a person at the General Assembly, and some of these can be added to the vice president of the legal committee that often separates little between those who speak in an adventureful manner about the state-of-the-art situation as they were in the Republic of Iceland after the collapse. Hv. A senator looks beyond the fact that in 2008 there was $217 billion on the Iceland State Fund at the current price level. This was about 14% of GDP. In 2009, a massive operation within the year, taking up budgets in the middle of a year, reached 140 billion, just below 10% of GDP, below 90 billion in 2010, etc. until 2013. If we look at this as an development without irregular joints, as is often done, and here in the bill for the budget, its accessory, this is a range of 8% 2008, which is so rapidly decreasing in large steps and ends up in the future of 2013. Without irregular teams, the government gave the Conspiracies and left a green fiscal fund with leftovers at the end of the term. I'm just saying, "I'm doing better." Do some people know of it somewhere in nearby lands that in such a lengthy manner such a huge pitch has been destroyed during a single term? I'm not, and I predict that in history this will seem a great achievement. This has a why. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir no understanding. She never mentioned that it was one of the things that mattered for Iceland, for state funds, for the well - being community in Iceland into the future that it was successful, although by massive measures, to destroy this angle so quickly that it resulted in less accumulation on the balance and debt of state funds and, as a result, less interest costs than it would have been. At the same time, economic growth began in the country, and the economy began to straighten out the cow, as it did in the latter part of 2010. This should be kept in mind, for the sake of, the facts, and the members of the council because there will be a demand to discuss these matters more objective and upbuildingly. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir here will be here. Hv. A senator, on the other hand, speaks of bloody cuttings and is now counting together as a human being in the present government. It is not connected with the reality there was, however dramatic and important it was that it was able to destroy these enormous palaces, and the more remarkable it was that it was in a socially conscious way, so that research and assessment of parties like OECD, special representatives of the UN rights Council of Human Rights, and other such, commend Iceland for the fair distribution of the stocks, sheltered incomeier and weaker groups, and laid the burden on wide banks.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u39	That's not true.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u40	Which is absolutely accurate and confirmed by so many independent authorities, both domestic and foreign, that no matter how. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir is doing something else. It's just the facts. For example, I encourage men to look at a report from OECD. I encourage people to read a fine report as an independent expert, U.S. U.S. Human Rights Council of Human Rights, after their visit to Iceland at the end of the last year. He concludes his compliments on how Iceland managed to cope with this economic and community problem but still succeed in doing as well as possible in ensuring the social rights of its citizens with a fair distribution of the stocks. Hv. A senator, of course, is so wrong, as is her problem when discussing delicate matters, when she claims that the previous government had a bloody cut - off bike in the bases of the transfer systems. That's wrong. It is true that it was totally on the basest financial level, such as the unemployment improvements that had recently been raised handsomely shortly before the collapse and insurance, their survival insurance in the social security system that no other income had been affected. [[Up front.]] On the contrary, it was elevated in terms of GDP over the years. [[Up front.]] These were the most important factors to defend; the sum of unemployment benefits due to big unemployment, and now beyond, and the guarantees that had been inserted into the system to ensure the benefit of those who had no income but pay from the social security system. These are facts, Mr. President, which anyone can look up. It is true, however, that in 2009, income - related declines were restored to those with other incomes. It was moved back to 45 percent of what it had been until 2007 when the men dropped it and it lasted only two years. This was brought back temporarily, and the decision was to drop out of force at the end of 2012, as well as to do. Thus, efforts were made to protect the income and those who rely on them and their resources on unemployment benefits or income from the social security system, and especially those who suffer from it, in the sense that they have no other income. Their interests were not disturbed. 2011, labour agreements made with substantial increases in the lowest remuneration. They became not only countries but also rural communities, as it is known, and helped to restore inflation into a small movement in loss afterward. Nevertheless, the then government decided to raise the pension of old and disability for exactly the same amount of money that the lowest wage would increase and pay the increase back again to the initial period of the collective agreements. This was done in the spring of 2011. Of course, the 2012 budget was not just as rich in the sense that it took an average increase in pay and put it behind the next budget. But it was returned immediately to this group of the same gradations that were reached in the 2011 low pay contracts. It's not to be done now, as I might come a little better at the end. There is the present government in a way other than that, in this way, by having a truly special humanity and generosity, and by criticizing others for whom it cannot afford, at least not in this comparison. It is, of course, an amazing scandal, best be done immediately during a few minutes, if the government is going to finish the year so that, in any case, the only group in this country that will be left without any benefits in 2015 will be elderly and desperate, perhaps including students. But that's what's going on, unless the change in the memory of the part will be accepted. Now, last after a vote has issued a decision to declare us here in this hall, the president, stewards, general officials and judges, an increase that will be backtrace to March 1, I find it hard to understand how men are going to take it of themselves not to do anything within this year for this group. The issue of whether they should be in the next year should be raised in line with an increase in the lowest salary or average wage development, whether it should be 9.4 or 9.7%, or what it is, or perhaps 14%. That dispute would remain. But trying to keep her up, probably, and doing nothing this year is an amazing performance on the side of the highest. Governments and its supporters. I think there will be a search in history that this group is so severe that this group is left behind by one government, would not be new. For some other things that would be pleasant to talk about in this context, first of all the money paid by financial companies and the smaller items run well in their committees and show in tables how the government has handled matters there. How amazing it is that a year after the year, humans do not plan on such a great thing and overlook it! Perhaps it is difficult for the government classes to try to maintain their cause that the investment plan of the former government has not been financed by trying to keep it in the face of financial contributions that no profit will come from financial institutions. What other reason should there be for this? Is it because the greater part, the discipline champions are the same. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir and who. paritaprevir Guðlaugur of Þór Þórðarson, how much fun it is to bring a huge variation every year and have to bring them into the budgets, a plan that everyone saw and knew about? But this government has chosen to do in several cases year after year. She has placed negligible sums of money into the anticipated payment when everyone has known better. For example, we now know exactly what the bank will earn next year when his recovery in the first three quarter years of the year will be and his profits will be huge, which means that the bank is in a very similar way to paying interest in the magnitude of the twenty - thirty billion next year. And I guess that's what they're gonna do. The bank's holdings are in place for all limits, the fallrates are set to a third of the percentages so that even if the Basel III rules were fully implemented with all their financial contributions, the Lands Bank would pass them well. Of course, under these circumstances there is no reason for banks other than to pay off interest. This is the most natural reason to build your own money beyond what is already in the bank simply means that it is very difficult to bring in money. It is difficult to find interest in the bank business, which has become so immensely financed. It is only natural for him to return some of the profits that benefit his owner, who is blessed in this case, the Icelandic people who need it. [[Up front.]] The fact is that the first government's investment plan prior to 2013/2015 has proved to be a total profit even when the government is in a state of great generosity and generosity - for that is what it means, at home, to be generous, and to be generous - a reduced charge of the big estate. There, the government has dropped fishing costs between three fishing years from about 13 billion to 7.7 during the last year of fish fishing, resulting in a total income of one five-6.5.5 billion. But the financial pay has been so great that even if it did not come to the sale of a single property, the investment plan would have been rewarded. Then comes the next episode I would like to make up the subject that is the road issue. Investment plans expected significant efforts to transport during these years, 2013, 2014, and 2015. It would have been extremely useful, as with the plight of the road system, if they had been carried out in place of the fact that the present government has starving the group of lawsuits and has been completely unscrupulous, so there is a search for a more complex performance in one government. It's been through by no means. She's taken some shit in the group to some sort of financial aid. Just like she's done with the travel fund. To close the budget for two years in a row with completely unrealistic numbers and then to be forced to deposit a lot of money into budgets and come to the council with that is a practice that I thought was trying to put off, to plan clearly for either income, such as in the case of interest, or the expected inevitable spending, as in the case of travel or road legalities, and then to get involved in the budget. I thought it was just what people were going to do, but the present government has taken them up with great anger and is now not to be imitated. If they had invested in the interiors of transportation, and, of course, more in the interiors of society, these years of innovation and evolution and research, with the vital force that the original investment scheme expected; the government has, of course, returned in part by financing to that seminary, seen that, would have been much more moving on in the past two years and this year. For example, it would have been rather acceptable to keep seawater in action when the economy is getting warmer. But we have lost precious time that would have been highly beneficial for investing in these infrastructures. It can be reasoned that today is not entirely economically in the ideal situation for such big investments. You have to be honest with it, admit it. It is far more painful for them that we have lost as much time as we can see because of the injurities of this government. She has proved to be one of her greatest aggressors, so nervous about the past government that it became a special goal to try to change everything she had done, even though it would be very reasonable, as it was in general, even though it would receive much support, such as it would be. national conventions, even though everyone recognizes the need, such as transport investments and infrastructure. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. It would be It is a hustling of the mind of small men and women in politics, which is not a matter of nature. [[Up front.]] These are one of the cheapest and pathetic arguments in the world. Just because the previous government decided this part, it can't be right to continue with them no matter how elaborate it is in all other ways and reasonable nationally because of the projects involved, etc. It's a lot smaller when you don't get to be in politics when you don't have any evidence other than that. The big picture is that in some respects we continue to be successful. Iceland is continuing to grow strong in regard to economic restoration after the collapse. This trend has continued continuously since the late 2010. Economic growth be fine, unemployment declines, and the growth of financial resources is being changed for the better. Sadly, she is not getting better enough on the road. In today's run - down conditions that will likely be the next loss, it would have been wise to have much more money left over and to pay off debt more quickly or more money for difficult years, which, of course, takes place sooner or later, is, as they always do for us. Under such circumstances, economic management is not efficient. Even though the government is working against it, the late bank is in the difficult situation of trying to maintain stability, and it's about you when you recall the time when it was part of the disaster of the country, that the economy was not compatible and effective, and people didn't work together, one strip to the east and another to the west. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u41	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon for his good speech and for reviewing it so clearly how the situation was during the last term after the crash and what was the result of that election period, stopping the debt collection of the state funds, and putting things right here. This needs to be reviewed in such a clear way regularly because, as we saw before. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir had her own history and interpretations, making it distorted the image so hard that you let your hands drop. But, hey. A senator explained this very well and handed us over again. Hv. A senator mentioned the roadmaking, investment plan, the road construction, and the infrastructure that should have been in it and that the situation in the economy was that it would have been good to do so at the time, but perhaps not as good now to go to major projects. Today, however, the road system has become a matter of traffic security. I want to ask you why. A senator whether he believes that the problem in the budget for 2016 is under way and whether, despite all of this, it is not necessary to take further road initiatives that seem to be at a minimum historically planned in 2016 simply to respond to improving the quality of traffic security in the current situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u42	Mr. President. I think it is absolutely inevitable, and it is of enormous importance to do better on that subject, and it is a big disappointment, as I say, that we have lost a valuable time in that area after the interests of a government fund began to prosper, simply because it will cause so much damage to the future not to do so. Likely, there is strong evidence that the unique feature that should have the most important priorities is maintenance. It is simply necessary to restore the maintenance of the road system because it is down to the limit of maintaining it. The road system is becoming damaged, leading to very expensive improvements later. What if a person neglects for years and for all too long a normal maintenance of this kind of wood? There is an account sent for the future, since the need will not disappear, and it will have to deal with, but it will only be done later. So they're throwing an account into the future. This is irresponsible. We are living at the future cost by allowing the transport system, the infrastructure, to drudgery beyond all limits. Something else, of course, that I have had a lot of disagreement with and would like to mention from time to time. A senator is well aware of the share of this debt from Vega, that he is in debt to Vega as some terrible debt to state funds, or blundering negative money from Vega's own money to road accounts beyond market income markets over a long period of years. When was the decision that this was so decided? I don't know what it's like. I'm asking why. A senator: Does she recognize it as a financial minister to have agreed that it was set up like this? On the contrary, I argue that it was never a human understanding that although the government made a decision to increase transport by means of direct financial contributions beyond the market, it would have become a debt to the Vega. [[The president calls.]] Sadly, the invention of some accountants is later that the politicians hide behind them today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u43	Mr. President. The negative money of Vega's own making has been discussed in the past. The budget and the National Review Committee have made comments on this. I want to agree with what. A senator says that it is very strange that this is brought to such a book when it is decided to make more money for road construction. It's just that if your income doesn't depend on the road, the extra money will be placed as a debt to the Agency. It needs to be changed. Hv. A senator discussed the cost of hunting, and statistics have shown that making money is very high, and the profits the owners pay for them are at another hundred billion dollars that they just pay themselves, while the nation is hardly getting half of the money for the fishing permit given to them by the nation. The left government expected much higher fishing costs, and humans have been able to decide whether it was right or not, and smaller measures may have gone by. We had also made adjustments in meeting my projections. But what can we do? A senator told me about this economy, to just collect the money from the project in this guest night? Counts 'em out. A senator that the pieces of bread will collapse to the rest of us, and how will it appear? I'd also like to ask about the profit of the banks, if it's not just a Trix of the government to keep the welfare system, the road system, or the community's infrastructure on the rhythm of income evasion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u44	Mr. President. Only to start with this last one. It may be a view to carefully estimate irregular or temporary joints, such as remuneration. I would have completely understood that it would just be presented and logical. But when that lack of appreciation is over and over in the budget and nothing really bothered to explain why, that's a bit of cheating, of course. That is simply not to say that the laws of the law are to be properly closed according to the information available. It's just a fern exercise, that's all. With regard to the roads and the commitment, it is very interesting to learn that the Government Accounting will make this comment. I'd like to see them, and I'd love to work on it, if a financial committee could put it into practice, go on and look at the legal evidence in this case. In individual cases, people may have made a conscious contribution to a road problem that they viewed as a hurry and should later be reimbursed from marketd income. I'm not going to rule that out. But then it was also settled. But in other cases, when it was directly added to the project using direct funds from a fund, at least I viewed it as part of both sides of the board at different times, that we were simply increasing our investment in this field with funds from the money fund, and there was no debt in the Vega. With the price of hunting, it's just a matter of time. The album is that today's Icelandic fishing industry is the largest one in history. 70 constituted 80,80 billion bucks. is the finance of this article and the 5, 7, and although it was 10 billion fishing fees in this context, it is natural that so little of the great trust that it must be considered as a modest share in profiting from this resource. When people shovel at the same time, 131⁄215 billion in themselves, partners' owners, on interest money, they don't have a place to complain about their fishing costs, even though they were in the same places as they did in the fishing year 2012/2013. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u45	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill for financial support, some of which are repeated material from the previous talks of my section of the budget. We have criticized, and this is not just the case today, that funds are too often used to expand jobs, even new projects, and so forth. The role of funding is, as stated in the introduction of the bill, where it is well outlined, to assume that all the predictable budgets are in budgets each year, but the funds laws work on things that cannot be provided by financial contributions, i.e. some inevitable subject. It is stated that there may be new agreements made during the year, new legislation, but this should not be a new project or an increase in activity or to address the business of the individual institutions. We believe that in this bill, there are some issues that do not belong in financial terms at all. I'll go over it later. I'm going to point out the first thing I want to do. It seems that it is very difficult for the government to plan interest payments from the Lands Bank. It actually means 18 billion dollars in terms of the budget. We realize that this year, again and again, this point is being misapplied. On budgetary bill 2016, the Lands Bank is expected to produce just over 7 billion in profits. The mention sheet of the memory section contains an excellent table showing what has been underestimated over the years. It may be that there are times when it would be good to have lived below, but here we are not talking about some hundred million people, we are talking about billions of people. It can't be responsible to make it that way. I remind you that we at the council are about to vote on a government bill. The main idea is to plan ahead. How important it is that humans try to be as accurate as possible! There's something very mysterious going on here, that men can't figure this out. That's going to cost tens of billions even. You wonder, " Is this any game to be able to come back later and pat on your back at the end of the year? ' This is amazing. Here's the charity of the budget, we can say, i.e. It's a tourist position fund. It's amazing how badly the government manages to plan that team. She has, in effect, been unable to plan for this point since she began ruling. Over time, the smaller portion has pointed out that the amount of money that is set up is effective. Last year almost 146 million were expected. K. on this point. It was predicted that there could not be an absolute need for structure in this area. V.E.G. In fact, the last spring, a financial minister specifically introduced to the budget board of budgets that would be added to the budget and to the roadside. It is stated in part by the committee's list that such a work is exemplary. I want to criticize it. It doesn't matter to me whether it's the highest. A financial minister will introduce this to the committee, and it will somehow make up for the financial aid. It would be either now that this was presented to the committee. These are still not acceptable practices. This amount was supposed to go to the budget. You can't say it's unexpected or unpredictable, it's not like that. I was a little surprised to read the members of the committee party in the greater part of the world that it was considered to be the highest. A financial minister who paid money to attend a committee meeting to say that these amounts would be placed on budgets. It's very polite, but it doesn't change the fact that the joint doesn't belong in financial aid. Under this hat, there was also a budget for the Vega type, i.e. I'm from Kappreis Road, I'm Kaldadal Road, Uxabal Road. I don't belittle the lack of money to make road repairs. It doesn't really matter where you go. We're glad there's a coin in this suit. However, we do agree that decisions taken normally are normal, i.e. in a transport program where some kind of assessment is needed, where it is needed, and so on. I don't mean to say that these are experimental decisions, but we don't think there's any way in which people appreciate the fact that these projects are being carried out beyond anyone else. I know and I know that Rockless Road is very important, but I know that that that's true of so many other roads too. I'm gonna run over some of this. Another one here is Telenor, who has been given us every year, a service to the Norwegian communications company Telenor. This is still on the budget, but, fortunately, I'm happy to see that the amount in question, between 30 million and 40 million, has entered the bill for 2016. Let's hope we don't see this anymore. That's good. Another factor that has been extremely difficult to plan and that is repeatedly out of budget is the expense of public affairs. I think I'm right about a State Accounting investigation to make some sort of assessment of this suit. There's a lot of teams under there. Some may find it difficult to save. There are also teams that are partly unpredictable, such as the number of cases raised by courts and so forth. There are blood tests and other factors. I think it's a very good idea to make a public review of this because we've had the jury on the table of the Board of Shepherds. There are many details. It's a bit of a complicated feature. As is often expected, it is not too high to be expected. There is no exception this year. Medical costs are another factor we'll see here for the last time. He was last year, too. It's something important. This is not a good practice. We are glad that patient contributions have not been raised. This is about what patients pay for expert services. When the budget was approved for 2014 and 2015, they were accepted under the premise that a minister would raise the registration. We can be happy that a minister did not raise the register, so the total of over 1 billion that had to be included in budgets last year and again. This is not an acceptable practice. The billions of dollars are placed on budgets and made up of them. It is then a political decision and a good decision not to raise the bill, not to add a spell to the patients. You have to do the right thing. It's very interesting that we're getting this for the second time on the budget. It's been discussed here. Hv. Senators who have spoken have covered it well and have come to know it even better than I do. Interestingly, the cost of fishing falls to more than 2 billion, compared with the 2015 budget. We can see that lower fishing costs are expected on budget 2016. We know this is going well. Would not the reduction in oil charge have a major impact on the structure? You would have wanted to see it turn in better as tax returns for the nation. I'd like to point out a table in my committee party, where you can see a 2008 fishing fee and a 2016 bill. I'd like to call attention to two sources. A matter that we feel is a reason to consider more clearly on the committee is a variety of laws, sources, adjustments to 6. Article 7, to develop into the Asian Investors Bank and accept that the U.S. stock will be 17.6 million dollars. We felt that it was a reason to stop. Is this something we are to participate in now? It's a lot of money, but of course we can sell it back. After an introduction on a financial memo, this may be a good decision. There are more and less all the European countries and the North countries in this. It would be nice to know. Then there was a motion to increase the share of the former Gambigence, now the Hafnarfjörður, if I recall correctly. That wasn't high, there were a few million. We still had representatives of the Ministry of Education meeting because there's been trouble with Grima and this business. It hasn't worked out yet. Some changes are now being made, divided up, and required a little more share money. It wasn't much money, but we got an explanation for what was going on. There is reason for us to keep track of what is going on. Of course, we hope that this will lead to a successful operation. Then there are a number of parts in the bill that deal with unexpected expenses, perhaps mainly because of the Holununs and fires, and then those contracts that were made during the year. It's just as it should be. It's a good place over there. Then, in the smaller part of a change proposal that we feel is reasonable, we suggest that older citizens and disability be added according to an increase in the minimum wage rate and that the payments rise from May 1 this year as in the public market. This would be about 6.6 billion, and in view of the remainder of the 2015 State Fund for these expenditures. I think it's very important, and I hope that the proposal will be approved at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u46	A respectable president. I make a note of this program, a discussion on budgets for 2015, mainly to talk about the changes in the budget. 564 from the memory of the increased budget for micro-cities and older citizens so that they will be reimbursed reimbursed like everyone else in the community. I think it's a spontaneous requirement that's been observed among micro-creatures and older citizens. I reviewed it in my speech last week when I went to an open meeting at the United States Council of the United States at the Grand Hotel more than a week ago, on November 21, where these matters were being discussed. All members of the council were invited there, but we met three. It would have been shocking to think that more members of the council had come there and listened to the demands of disability and the experiences mentioned there. I know that we Icelanders are heads of good people, and that is just as true of those in control and government. These are all very good people, although we may have certain meanings about how to pursue politics and other activities. That's different. With the permission of the President, I would like to read the conclusions of this open meeting, which had the anthropological standard for all: I'd like you to meet a senator. Do you want to create a community for everyone whose pensioners and their children have the opportunity for active community participation and not the fact that they are put on the clovers they now live in? You have the power to change. An open meeting of the Quantum Community, a standard of living for all held at the Grand Hotel Saturday, November 21, 2015, challenges members to influence the government's budget before 2016, as follows: Social security bills reexamined the same dollar number and the lowest pay increased on May 1, which is 31 levels. K. for tax. Social security bills are raising 15 levels. K. from May 1, 2016, concomitant reduction of minimum wage. A dollar to a dollar is also required to replace the first amount of specific production. And finally we read: 'The senators, let us be able to be decent men and women.' The motion is designed to match this conclusion. I've often wondered about it here at a council and in speeches what kind of community we want to live in Iceland. It's been reported in the top speeches. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. Secretary of finance and almost every member of the council that there is quite a winding rise in society. You can agree with that. It has to be said, just as it is, Iceland is doing a great deal of good in comparison with many other countries. I don't want to mean that even though it deserves everything for what it's done in this way, it's an interactive factor since its last term. The government then took on a very bad place, as everyone knows, where there were hundreds of billions of dollars. A payback to a government fund, though, was successful. When she was driven out of power, she returned almost insurmountable farming, and she accepted the government of an independent party and a forwarding party. I also wondered what kind of community we want to live in. Do we want a community where we hold on to people who are hard and who need help to live or a community that just encourages them, saying, "No, that's enough for you, you have to accept the fact that you're gonna survive this? I'm one of the children's spokesmen at the General Assembly, and I got that honorary title over over a year ago, and I'm very proud of it, and I've been very focused on examining that class and others who touch children and those who fail. We are doing a very good job in relation to many other nations. Many children elsewhere are far worse, even in lands near us. Yet, it is true that a few years ago a report stated that more than 12 of you are. children were living at a poverty zone in Iceland. That's an amazingly high number. This may not be seen because we are a proud people, and we do not want to give it up. We also live in a world where disabled and cripples have lived for decades in the face of uncanny excommunication and discrimination. There are always better and better things to come up on the surface, things that are being dug for, very unpleasant accounts of how we've treated these people and we're still doing. Yesterday, I accepted an invitation from the U.S. Self - Satisfaction and the U.S. embassy to see life's documentary worth living or Lives Worth Living, which shows the right struggle for the disabled in the United States during the 1960's and 1970's. It was a very effective picture. I began to wonder that even though much had been accomplished in the last few decades, we should still be far off in fulfilling the rights of human rights that we have met with the United Nations Convention, as well as the Constitution of the right people to live a decent life. We have quite a few miles to live with it. Despite my support for the government for all good works, I feel that it should be a top priority in our society to provide the support of society and these groups of society and all that we do to suit children, best for children, and for those who have trouble living the same way as the rest of us, and who need help with it, especially the older citizens of this country, the people who built the country. The people who are now going to pension are the people who got us out of a huge wave of waves, fought for us, worked dark between us and building up the society we live in today, this good society, I want to say. We live in a very good society. But it's just my opinion. People can have all the opinions they want, but this is what I think. This is the kind of community we're supposed to build. It has been said in a sermon, both in unsubstantiated inquiries, in speeches, and in other matters, that everything here is going extremely well. Business life has responded well. There is no need to mention the seabed and how huge an economic growth has been in the ocean ever since the disaster struck here a few years ago. It took everything on the public part of the country. The major projects and those in exports have never been better than at that time. This was no doubt in the light of what was set on fishing charges at the time, so that the nation could get a fair run from its resources. If there's something we suck at, it's collecting expenses for our resources. We will see how the aluminium companies have been moving to the shelter of various laws profited from our electricity resources. We're gonna make over 18 of you. gigavats of electricity, and it's about 4 of you. of them in the Icelandic and Icelandic public. The rest of it goes into industry. What do we get for that? So besides everything else and the little resources we're getting, there's tax fraud here in Iceland estimated to be about 80 billion. What are we doing about it? Do we try to get it back? Do we try to fix it? I read a story about it in the fall that the Icelanders have in their bank accounts in Tortola 35 billion, all of it stolen from the public in Iceland. I'm getting shot at by taxes. What kind of association is this? Why don't we just settle down on this? Why are we arguing over the last few days if a developing cohesion agency, an institution that is greatly fired, and one of the institutions of the state that can be proud of? We spend days in it instead of working on how we can improve Icelandic society, get more money to run the community and common funds, promote the community of Icelanders. She's not at a high level, unfortunately, I'm going to allow myself to say it, a respectable president. Our socialism could be at a higher level and how we want to share money that we make and enjoy together. It's all ours. At any rate, it is written that the resources are our property. Only then can we benefit from them, getting reasonable money so that a good society where there is no shortage can be run safely. We're 330 you're talking about. People. In effect, the way we treat these people is shameful and let them live almost at the edge of hunger. I listened to one thing at this meeting where a young mother had 44 you. K. to survive the month. She couldn't even have her children with her. She had to be allowed to meet them once or twice a month; she could not afford to see her children more often or be with them. It's not supposed to be passed on land like Iceland. It's just that it's really... It's just... it's really... it's just... it's really... it's just... it's just... it's really... it's just... it's just I wish that more members of the council had been at this meeting and had experienced by themselves to listen to these people because they were striking and effective, and you were a little captivated. At the same time that a fool's advice is to give us a hell of a remuneration, it can't be done for these people. That's not a great idea, I think. You're kind of embarrassed that we won't be able to find money at the same time, as it turns out, that the income of the state funds is between 20 and 30 p.m. A million. K. In the next year, if everything goes down to stability, it will even be possible to pay off the State debt and reduce interest payments by more than tens of billions. Yet, we do not see reason to meet these people's demands. I made an unprepared inquiry to the prime minister last week, asking him about this. For one thing, he later said in reply that he hoped that there would be a rich agreement between government opposition and government interests in making budgets and funds to resolve this matter. I'd like to interpret that, Mr. President, that by the answer he was urging us to resolve this, we solve it so that the so-called sod is that we can walk with a smile on Christmas holiday. Because I have to tell you right now, it's gonna be tough unless we meet these groups. As I said before, this is an enormously good society in which we live. Rich society. Our resources are not only the sea and the energy but also the peace we enjoy. As members of the National Committee, we must do everything within our power to protect the common good and to defend this peace and make sure that everyone can live in peace and harmony. It's not like that. There's a lot of turmoil in the community with older citizens. I got a phone call just before I went on a speaker from a man in the South with a sea that said: "You don't let these people get away with not answering if they're coming to meet us. It is intense anger, and it can hardly be improved. As we have seen many times, there is an excellent background in society. The seaside soil flourishes, which is fantastic. Unlike many countries, we have powerful builders who have provided a very practical business that is not Kingdom - strengthd. Their profits have been adventureful, which is also wonderful. You're supposed to be happy if you're doing well. The store thrives. The tourism industry flourishes despite what is said, much tax fraud. That's something we could work really hard on, too. We need to use this opportunity to enhance our understanding of how to build our community, how to share what we have. Don't just keep arguing about something else forever. I mean, this adjustment proposal is very good, I really hope it's going to be accepted. Also, much good from the greater part is good, such as spending 44 million more in a prison facility that I understand is earmarked to open a babyhouse. I like that. It is fanciful that we should accept that a baby's cabin is closed, thus violating the rights of children. Now we have signed and approved the United Nations Children's Covenant and yet we break these rights. That's why I'm glad there was a coin in it. We make sure that we never do this again, never let it happen again that the children of people in trouble should suffer the hands of those in charge. A respectable president. This is what I would like to encourage the entire body of Congress to agree to this proposal and feel the money, it exists, it is clear. Let us agree on all the areas here that are working to provide these groups of society with a decent standard of living. They were here last time this morning. I would also like to point out, since I was talking about meeting the Micro-Community Coalition, that Gallup polled for the coalition, which included the question of whether people would trust to live at 180 you. K. per month. 90% of responders said no. 95% replied that they considered it very reasonable and absolutely necessary to obtain payback. You wonder, though, when you have different opinions and other views, you may find the heartbeat in the community. If it's convenient for them, it's fine polls, if it's not bad. But the ratio is 95% and hardly even more Russian than that. People are on this track. It's what it wants. Just as with the health system, people want to add money to these matters, people know that these are basic causes. It is a key to a society that would like to consider himself to be a moralist to support people who are facing and who need help to live decent lives. There is no need to be ashamed of that. That's my last words, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u47	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I cut it at the end of the day. The senator reviewed an unprepared request to the highest level. Prime Minister on the subject that was the key to his speech in the past, the ideal of the elderly and the desperate. If I've noticed them right, they'd talk. Prime Minister that he hoped for a wide deal of reconciliation at the General Assembly on this matter. Now I want to ask you why. A senator can be at the highest level. The prime minister did not propose to the government, but to the other member of the administration, for it is absolutely clear that we can afford to maintain the ideal microorganists and the elderly above the minimum wage. We're going to show a good deal of money on the budget bill we're discussing. This is also a good share of the budget bill for 2016. It takes 6.6 billion to raise the interest of older people and disability in 2015 from May 1. The remainder of the budget is nearly 21 billion. So the money isn't the problem, it's maybe the politics. I want to pray. A senator may wonder if we have the highest possibility here. The prime minister has been calling for help from the government side to get the other member to agree with the reasonable requirement that the elderly and the desperate be at least at the best of the minimum in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u48	A respectable president. That's a good question. It may well be, at least I thought it was the highest tone. The prime minister would be open to this fact. He seemed to have a great grasp of the need to make adjustments. I've only been two and a half years in Congress, and I haven't become a political fox like so many others. I'm having a bit of a hard time digging it up and I'm kind of upset about that dear men not wanting to do this, but yet I wondered about it. Perhaps he was asking us for help, at least I felt the highest answer. The second, the second, answer, suggests that he hoped for a broad solidarity between minorities and the government in solving this matter. Although much may be said about the advance party, it beats a socialist heart, I think. I think people understand that it is reasonable and normal for these people to get these benefits. No one is willing to live in a society or to be part of a poverty - related society. People are always helping in some way, so they don't die of hunger in Iceland, which turns out better. We are not that bad, but this is because people rely on others. I'm afraid nothing to say about it, but when you look into history, there's been a lot of conflict between these classes. It will be clear that 2nd is not yet about. ... abundant. There seems to be something on the beach. Perhaps we need to help the advance team to move on these changes. Maybe he was calling for it, I don't know, hopefully.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u49	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Now the budget assumes that 600 million will go into a state fund of the amount approved by the General for Children's Developments. We agreed in budgets for 2015 that there are about 11 billion children in child damages. They were especially raised because of food tax counter measures. Much was said about the concern of those who were poor and who had children, for this should increase the rate of child rearing by a billion. Now it turns out that 600 million of those billion returned to their state funds because the limits were so sharp. In the criteria of the 68th taxes law. is expected to be reduced to 200 fars. K. monthly remuneration per subject. Because of what? I would like to ask him if it had been a fair requirement for the government to adopt the tax law in the middle of the year when it became clear that the coin approved by the General to balance the status of the children's family would not be available to those who needed him but to return to the state's budget to make more money in 2015. What does it look like? A senator with regard to child reform? These limits are not expected to be altered. There's still supposed to be a child's settlement at 200 yards. K. By the taxes. [[The president calls.]] Got it. Is that acceptable to a senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u50	A respectable president. This is a bit of a tough question for me because when it comes to the affairs of children and child makings and other things, I feel that it is not allowed to interfere but rather increase if something is. I'd be happy to admit I don't quite know it. I haven't quite studied why it's this way. I noticed that the child - welfare rate had dropped about 600 million, but unfortunately I can't answer it. A senator so well, because I don't know how to answer that perfectly. I hope that Senator forgives me for that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u51	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u52	A respectable president. Thank you. During the last few weeks, a senator and a variety of his discourses speak for the benefit of elderly ones and infirm ones. Of course, when faced with such a situation, there is no need for all too many to live in poverty. But it has to be financed naturally, and you want to believe in the longest law that it is what requires more of the legal committees to bring in money to the project. Then the senator refers to what another senator took to account this morning, which is the income of the country's joint resources and speaks of the natural nature of the situation, as I think I'll just mention that the Senator mentioned, in a state fund and could use increased resources for the sake of these matters, among other things, to let the elderly and the poor enjoy the same quality as the rest of us who work in this house and many others. How does the senator appreciate this debate, which is a natural resource runt? How would he envision that we could set up resources so that they would be able to give up more money in a government fund so that, in a more handsome way, we could improve the interests of older ones and poor ones?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u53	A respectable president. Yeah, how do I see it? It's such a big question, what's normal. Why haven't we been able to sit down, Icelanders, and discuss what is a natural resource use? What is it? Is 20% too much? I don't think so. If profit is 72 billion, I heard that number this morning, is 20% of that too much? I don't think so. I don't think it's too much at all. Admittedly, the amount of money paid in the state's funds is considerable. As far as I can remember, if I remember correctly, and occurred at a meeting held the other day, there are about 22 billion on income tax, insurance fees, and resource bills. That's a lot of money. But I understand - now the senator may correct me if I'm wrong - that this is more economic when everything else has been figured out. Isn't it? Isn't that the way it was originally planned? That they were paying a resource from a high-priority fund in the fishing industry? I wondered how normal it is with this. During the last term, it was claimed to have been a tax catapult, and it suffered so tremendously that something else had not been understood. At the same time, however, producers are investing in cow farms, printers, and magazines, e.g. The morning paper. Why is it that they can spend money on it and then complain that they are being taxed or tortured? I feel that all this communication is somehow incredibly complicated and difficult and how we often think, Icelanders. Everyone needs more community thinking, what's normal and not normal in this. [[The president calls.]] I don't know. This is a discussion we must make, and people must wisely decide what is normal in this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u54	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answers. Normal, yes, it is what is important to grasp a common understanding. On this occasion, perhaps I would like to ask the senator if a way, such as the way of opening warrants, would please the senator as some general means of finding out what is normal, and that would naturally be what the developers themselves offered to pay for open and general auctions where no one is forced to buy what he does not want, but men can offer what they trust. Would that be a way of solving this old argument about the natural cost of the resource? However, I wanted to ask the senator about his position on wealth tax. Note, of course, that the government chose not to extend the wealth tax. That's how taxes have 5 of you. The richest families in the country dropped considerably by this year, but it would cost elderly and desperate ones to raise back to spring. This year alone the wealth tax would have paid more than 10 billion dollars.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u55	Why did you want to cancel him?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u56	But he, whom we would not take away; he was only temporarily and extended, however. Senator. It is of course interesting, though, that paying taxes in particular to the leaders of the Action Party is a priority. You ask yourself. [[Up front.]] A class that does not consider themselves to be able to correct the ideals from spring to spring for the poorest in the country, why do they decide, the forward party, to cut off taxes in particular from 5 you? The richest homes in the country?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u57	V.E.G. President. That's a good question, very good question. You often wonder why paying taxes to the best in Iceland is always paying off. I don't know about this wealth tax. He was strongly opposed by many, who considered this to be a form of property. I don't know. I didn't think he was tall, 1.5% reminds me, of those who had any gigant properties, but it may have been unfair to those people who only had money in their possessions. I think it could have been with everyone's good will to change that. Some adjustments were made to remind me from the left green of how to change and continue their taxes. Similarly, a decrease in income taxation occurred during the first assembly of 51.7 billion a year, which I would have liked to wait along and would have been able to use that money to build up the welfare system and just maybe the groups we're talking about right now. And it is not impossible to say that today is the International Day of the Disappointments. We would be quick to conclude that we would respond to their demands. But with regard to the auction route and the rest of the way for fish. I'm sure it's a nice way. We made a suggestion in terms of the mackerel, developed a motion for it, would have done so if that case had gone through. But I think it's extremely important when it comes to the fishing route, for we still have the best fishing road in the world. I think it's very dangerous to do a lot with him, except in perfect terms. In some ways, though, we need to figure out how we will settle this, developers, and others will be content to pay a fair and natural price to the nation. That's always the question of this fair and natural. I'm sure that's what we keep arguing forever. But that's what we're supposed to be working on and in harmony.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u58	Madam President. This is where we'll discuss budgets for 2015. We know that the items listed in budgets are largely unforeseen. These are not budgets, and thus the debate on budgets is that money is being added to budgets for this year, which are primarily due to factors unseen. Naturally, many of them, although trying to prevent them from becoming far too large a figure of each year's budget. The discussion has been far and wide. I'd like to start by talking about what's been discussed here. What burns most on me is the ideal of the elderly and the desperate. I had calculated that the group that has made righteous demands and wishes to receive similar increases and that have been at the general labour market for country elevations that have been relatively high in recent months. The average increase in salary in the past few months is 14.6% or over 14%, but it is suggested that the elderly and the poor receive 9.7% from next year's conventions. They are there, that I think, cut off about eight months. They should normally have followed the lowest paid arms in the country that had raised payoffs from May 1 this year. As noted, the smaller item suggests a change in its proposal that it will be improved, and I think it is very important. Today, as members of the Parliament, on the international day of the disabled, we were urged to stand with this group in the society that often has little to do with getting the terms corrected and often becomes the remainder in times of trial. Although the beautiful promises are at hand before elections and in the discussion, more often than not, those two groups, aged and desperate, have some left - size sized size when the cake has been replaced. This year, low - paying employees with a spirit of teamhood and high income were able to achieve the result that their pay will increase over the next three years to 300 levels. K. a month, which now has nothing to do with shouting, but is still staged and shows what can be done if people stick together. Now we have to stand together and support the righteous requirements of these groups, the elderly, and the desperate. It is not acceptable that these groups will be left alone with only the increase, which does not mean raise in the country, and that this increase is not repetitive, as in other society groups that have it better. This includes members of Congress and others who agree with the decision of the Council of Elders, who received a 9.3% rise again from March 1 onward. These include other high officials of society, ministers, judges, priests, government officials, and members of Congress. Therefore, we who are in a position to adjust the terms of these groups to put ourselves at the aid of improving the quality of our Kingdom funds that is one of our priorities to try to raise the interests of the people who are more often than not struggling to make ends meet by each month. Yet, the discussion with these groups often makes you feel that there is an amazing lack of understanding. It's like it's always going to work out somehow, it's done it over the years, and it just has to go on doing it. Like the people involved there are not flesh and blood, and they have the same needs as the rest of us, making the same demands of life to sustain themselves and to earn well, but they do not have to ponder each cent in order to obtain the necessities of life and live under rent and food. Then there is everything else that we, in general, generally view as a matter of taking advantage of ourselves and our children. It is necessary to have some satisfaction but just to endure from one month to the next. I challenge well - meaning members of the board, I see that they are listening to this discussion, and I know that they are well - meaning for this matter, to be courageous now, and to agree to the proposal made by a smaller section of the legal committees that these groups receive back on May 1. It's gonna cost you money. Well, it's gonna cost you all the money. It costs more than 6 billion dollars, but the state's budget is to get its weapons and bring in more than 20 billion leftovers. As a rich society, we have the power to meet the worst, and those who have at least the ability to fight for their interests, who do not have the strike weapon as other classes do. Then these groups rely on members of the council to listen to their sense of justice and to put their priorities in their behalf. There are many things to discuss, though the ideal interests of the elderly and the desperate are at the top of my mind right now. For example, transportation could be discussed in the country. That group of paintings has been completely laid down, and at the end of the budget, they're doing something for roadkeeping. In fact, it was by traditional means. It was suggested that 1.3 billion are being made new for funding, maintenance of the road system because of large tourist currents, and certain aspects of it benefited. But, of course, it's just a joke in the big context. Now we're watching that here, the gigian population of tourists comes into the country and it's going to increase by 30% between years. We're totally going to be taken over on road affairs in this country. We cannot offer proper transportation in many parts of the country in order to distribute tourists in the best way possible and to spread the pressures on the environment. So much more is involved in commercial activities all over the country, transport has to be in order. It is more important than tears to say that a transport plan has not yet been exposed and that there is always a need to be trying to fit into these things in order to save matters for an angle in budgets, which, of course, should be taken handsomely into budgets. This was not done on budget for 2015, and it will also not be necessary for 2016. Then there may be compensations to get things done, but, of course, maintenance has gone a long way behind, and the cost of doing so is much higher than it would otherwise, and all new projects have not looked like them. What does tourism bring into the country? There are no small financial items, and it is remarkable that the current government's policy is not simply that a certain percentage of the revenues produced by tourism flow directly into the structure of society's infrastructure, whether called a road system, ports, or development of tourism in general, its peace descriptions, and so on. As surveys have shown, of course, tourists come primarily for the nature of the country and for the enjoyment of Icelandic nature, not just for some limited area of travel that is typical of tourism, but for a wide variety of nature all over the country. And this requires transportation. I just don't understand that there's no more ambition than this when there's more than 300 billion income from the tourism, or the currency on her side. There are a hundred million here, and a hundred million of these are on a project rather than a good - looking one. I believe right control to starve the welfare system and to try to privatize everything that moves, but that the right government has no more ambition for transportation - I don't understand what's going on there, what dams are inside the government that can't make it a real project and real maintenance of roads that have gone down for many years. It is not good to know that in the fall it is immediately becoming necessary to cut down the road to snowstorm in winter. The winter begins with a bang on the whole country, but the message has reached the road that people should be manipulated and saved in what turns to the snowstorm. It's as if they think they can control the forces of nature as well. Happily, though, this government is not in that condition when it cannot handle this small country by just over 300 you. ... population. Now this is what this lawsuit looks like. Also, child support has been added. There's not much ambition, cutbacking your child's income for 200 pounds. K. and the 600 million. K. which are intended for the project to be cut down. There are cold greetings to the children of the country. The same can be said for growth improvements, which have 200 billion. K. recovery due to an increase of 8% of the total domestic weight assessment and, thereby, the increase in the network sector. Real estate evaluations have not increased all around the country in this way, and the question is, How do the homes come out that do not live on this high or elevated real - estate assessment? But it is also true that the building of real - estate assessment does not improve or that the payment site does not improve. This is now the cold reality. Then the comparator tablet is heavier than tears, seeing how the present government throws away income mails, such as a fishing fee that has reduced the number of years and not even in behalf of those who truly need it, i.e. The smaller types, which were not in the same place as the largest production in the country that makes its toes and fingers and gives its profits to tens of billions. The larger ones pay for the cost of 13 billion of that profit. No, the reduction in hunting was flat, large, and largest of the companies received it, and now it is taking only about 5 to 8 billion in hunting costs, compared to 13 to 20 billion of the large productions paying themselves for profit. This sums up the policy of this government. Of course, these income, wealth taxes, energy taxes, and fishing fees imposed by the former government could have been used and thought of putting them in great structure. An investment plan showed that we were in a building process right after the state's status improved. Then an election was held, and a right government began.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u59	And the left control lost.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u60	And the left government - few enjoy the fires that first set them on fire. That's the way it was. But let's hope it's about to turn around. In the kingdom of heaven, where I hope we shall all end at some time, the first will be the last, and the last first. Let's just hope so, and I believe that the left control can get back here to power in over a year. Then we can work out the problems that have been committed in government affairs, where miscalculation has been made in many lawsuits, and our social infrastructure has been maligned. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u61	Madam President. Thank you. A candidate for the talk and agrees with her view of the left hand government. What a fine thing it would be if peers had been allowed to build a community in the spirit of the left course and the new result that has been obtained and obtained! [[Up front.]] It is bloody to see the quest of the right government and how it used the results laid on the last term. Madam President. I didn't mean to talk to him about it. Instead, I wanted to ask her if she would agree that there was a lack of vision and policy on how to deal with more tourists in the country. Now, however, their numbers have increased dramatically, and pressures on every infrastructure are high. We are happy to increase the number of tourists, for this has a positive effect in many ways, but we must not forget that there are pressures on the interior, not just at the tourist attractions and the peaceful areas, but the pressures of the road, such as the driving force. A senator came in, and the police and the health care. I want to ask you why. A senator whether she agrees with me that there is a great deal of effort in all of these matters. It is not enough to just look at the tourist attractions and roads, as is being done only in the case of poverty, at least in these funds. Do we not have to make a major effort in all aspects of this?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u62	Madam President. Of course, internal development must be consistent with the growth of tourists. I think we've come to a place where we can be quite nervous because this is not working. Perhaps we were not quite ready for such a rapid increase in the number of tourists in the country, which has appeared in relatively random decisions in so many of the lawsuits. The increase in financial resources has not been accompanied by the lack of policy development in so many areas that then overlap and work together like a whale. A senator mentioned. It's not just transportation, it's a number of other things, such as law enforcement and health care in the country. All of this needs to hold hands, and the welfare system is, in fact, the same. It's all a combination. We have seen how the minister of travel has gone back and forth with his ideas on infrastructure and how to raise money to meet the needs available. Humans are not yet - now it is three years from the start of this government - down to one or anything that tells how they will see themselves market policy for the future, that it will become sustainable and sustainable as well. This is not yet possible after the administration of almost three years. What's going on?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u63	Madam President. The right government has no work. It's long clear. In this case, it is bad not to take over and set up a schedule for the growing sector of tourism. In some ways, though, you are glad that she has no work, for it will not harm you. This has to be taken. The lack of policy and confusion are particularly shocking for rural society as well as for those who are engaged in employment in the article. During the last term, a good left - hand investment plan was made. We've been reviewing the schedule today in connection with the budget-fixing bill because this financial bill confirmed that the investment programme was unmistakably financed, as planned, but the right government threw it off the board. This plan estimated that 7,500 million between 2013, 2014, and 2015 would be spent on transportation. They would have remembered if that plan had been applied. It was also estimated that 2,250 million were built into tourist facilities and are being built into areas of peace. There, the left management board had made a three - year plan on how to build up and make good use of the economic system for investment projects, both for work and for the future. [[The president calls.]] I'll think about it with what it was. A senator who asks her, "Wouldn't it be better if the right government could be able if it was only half the plans of the left government? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u64	Madam President. Certainly, it would have been better if the planned union had continued. Hv. A senator came along quite well. It was well financed by hunting fees, energy taxes, and a wealth tax. Now, you are concerned that as the wave grows in certain sectors of the capital area, which does not reach the region, it will be used as an excuse for not going into the interior structure beyond and beyond the country that should have been on a flying trip. I well remember that after the collapse, when you could have expected the lack of money to be new, e.g. In the road system, the last government put over 3.5 billion in place on the Vestafjord 60. The developments currently being carried out, such as the Norwegian tunnel, were all determined and set off on the part of the former government. Nothing has happened in the past almost three years of transportation. Humans have just sat on their hands and had no ambition to build up the interiors of transportation. That is a thought - provoking point. I'm afraid there had been a sound in a corner if left control had been in power now with more than 20 billion dollars left over the budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u65	President. Certainly, it can be said that the government has been inactive in many areas, but it has not been without work in reducing the fishing costs and removing wealth taxes. The government has not been workless in increasing social inequities. She may boast that it is more difficult to do this today than when the left government did, because she had used her equipment and had been tested in an economic struggle to defend the lowest - paying and worse - than those who could put those who could bear heavier burdens, but the government has done a great deal of relief to them and to increase the inequity of society. Those who are happy about it are naturally pleased with it. I'm not happy about that. For example, if I may put it this way, child support approved by the World Congress of last year's respected president should come to those who needed it. Is it not the obligation of the government when she sees that for some reason these improvements were too high to change the limits so that the money the General has decided should be brought to the families that are less fortunate to go from treasure to these families and not back into their pockets? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u66	Madam President. Certainly it should not be, so people took advantage of this opportunity and pulled it back into the treasure of the Kingdom. It's not as if the need is not there, like the rest of it. A senator came in okay. They all know that it is, of course, very difficult for young people today, young children's families, to get a roof over their heads and provide for themselves and their families. It's very difficult. The amount of money there is about 600 million on the child support that the government fund is going to take back because they were overestimated and 200 million because of growth reforms. Of course, the State should have changed guidelines for accepting these amounts at the General Assembly and using them for the benefit of these individuals rather than turning them back. It would never have been over the left of the board, that's for sure. It is as if the right government were able to treat less fortunate ones and may not be able to defend themselves in the same way as some who have high - interest security in the council, such as the great reduction in hunting costs. It's not quite the same weight in young children getting a roof over their heads and the big-looking developer in Iceland. These young people are also voters. Its standards are just as important in the future. I hope these young people are following this discussion and knowing their best interests. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u67	President. It's foreign. Another country in this government that we see in the budget right now, and we saw in recent years, which is described in the true lack of work, is the greatest achievement. Industrial and business minister of Ragnheiður the Elín River Árnadóttir in connection with the tourist resort. Now I think the Senator may be able to correct me if I'm not right, but isn't this the second time the budget is used to put money in a tourist budget because the minister didn't have the strength and the wrong suggestions were so stupid that they couldn't be approved, and that's why there wasn't money? Yet, the smaller section emphasized the need to plan for this lawsuit because it was shown that these stupid suggestions would never be realized and there would be no need for money. Isn't this a pain in the ass? Can the senator agree with me that it is an intolerable way of making financial contributions not to post the cost of hundreds of millions of dollars that all intelligent people know will need and will not keep for money? Isn't it under financial circumstances that there's something out of sight? These items were never unpredictable. [[The president calls.]] Doesn't the government have to turn over the budget in general?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u68	Madam President. Yeah, things haven't worked out very well. Ministers of travel to the area in which it is in which they are traveling. It tells itself that when money comes so late into a tourist market, those who come to use it need a lot more time to prepare to apply and use this money. When the money comes so late, these funds will not be used as they should, as they have shown. It should have been available at the beginning of a year's budget what would be meant to build wood into a tourist trade fund. 145 million were in the budget, wasn't it? Then, in summer over 850 million of them were randomly added to solve the situation. Then the money was being brought way too late. It takes time to go through the development of rural society and various aspects of the process to obtain permission for what is part of the infrastructure. These are hand-reflectings, which show just how little financial control is in control of the right government. It has been said that there is no one to rule the land and to know about the economy except the right men. That's long ago proved true. I can tell that when I talk about right men, then, of course, they're also forwarders. At the end, I want to point out that only 10% of the population owns 70% of its property. [[The president calls.]] There's a huge discrepancy here. [[The president calls.]] There's got to be a government that has the guts to deal with this misunderstanding. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u69	A respectable president. The budgets we are now dealing with, such as the laws of this year and the next year, are a wonderful testimony to the bad policy that the government has taken into the affairs of the country in virtually every aspect of the country. We see not only a subtle plan and a strange administration, which I'm going to support, but a complete disregard for the problems of the people of the land, and I'm particularly considering the community groups that are under attack. Of course, most intimate in this relationship is to point to the shocking fact that there should be no effort in correcting the interest of older ones as well as disability as any other community groups, that they alone should wait for their corrections to be made on January 1 next year when other groups receive repeated correction from May 1. There was no need for cortical statements here for the last elections from independents who are now conducting the Ministry of Economic Affairs that would eliminate everything that would protect those groups, especially the elderly, when the independent party would be established. Personal letters were sent to the home of every older citizen in the country, where gold and green forests were promised to improve the exact group. There was no need for national meetings to support the felt plans. What are these things? Of course, we know that during the years following a collapse, when the national sink was being restored and the boat was drawn up and beaten down after the economic storm, the people had to make sacrifices and do so. Everybody did. But now that the economy has improved and the time has come to repay the public's sacrifices, what will happen? Who are the people the government picks up on their arms? It is the high paying person who enjoys the tax system changes that were specifically designed for it by decommissioning the wealth tax. There are groups, such as generals and senior officials, who are restored to their remuneration. It is what the government sees special reason to crush as the fishing road produces the most advanced in its history of 70-80% billion dollars. capitalization, as shown earlier today. At the same time that the fishing companies pay themselves for another hundred million dollars in pure money, this industry provides 5-6.6 billion in fishing reserves because the government today has a special reason to lower the fishing budget by as much as half. The government of Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunollon saw to it that the most powerful industry in the country, a industry of hundreds of billions of dollars and never in its history had more success and gain, would be a failure for economic restoration of the land. An article that paid more than 13 billion in 2013 now has to pay just a few billion dollars. At the same time, the National Hospital is at hand. Think, then, of the dramatic statements why. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, Chairman of Men. The budget board, from before the last election. They did not need the declarations of how the land hospital's welfare would be restored when the forwarding party would be established.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u70	...on two and a half...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u71	This is where the apples were made swift, and the horses' skins of the horse in their time. We also see privatizing programs on the health care unit, plans being put in motion by the National Parliament and without consultation with it, and we see how rich people and high-payers get better credits and tax doctors while the underpayers, the children, the desperate, and the elderly are left behind. Madam President. When I was growing up, there were times when the bullies in the neighborhood walked through gardens and broke down and cursed what other children had built up, whether they were cabin horses, roads that had been lying in the sand, or small, leading to dead pets or birds. This was destroyed, something that small hands rejoiced to do, and the bullys came and damaged - just because it was possible. Thus, the lives of immature children are going on, but it is sad to see the same behavior in those who have the people's counsel in their hands. Here I refer to the current government's compulsion to eliminate all that the former government did, not because there are reasons or reasons that are so rich, but because it was the work of the previous government - just because it was the work of the previous government. One of the most tragic examples of this is the decision to take out of the effectiveness of the Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir's investment plan, a plan that expected the more intensive construction of social infrastructure as part of economic and social restoration after a collapse, road construction, geographing, advanced research institutions, and other factors to be counted. In other words, the objective of the previous government investment plan was to support economic growth and diversity. She was a part of a new trend for economic collapse, and she was designed to support economic benefits and economic growth. It was laid down on the basis of the restoration of much of the funds offered to restore the banking system and that by means of new laws then provided for fishing, the nation would be given added to the interest of sea resources. There was a suggestion for an investment that would result in some 88 billion dollars. of which 39 billion were expected to be funded from this investment plan. 17 billion were due to result from the special fishing fees and rents of labor departments, and 22 billion were to result from the interest and sale of the state's property in banks. This was to flow into a transport program and a land tunnel plan, to promote research funds and technology funds and to work development and application programmes by the National Association. [[Up front.]] I feel right at this point, because the chairman of the budget board is constantly up here reminding me right now of this investment plan. There would be a different attitude in our country if it had been fired off decks as planned. Well, now we're laughing. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, like a fool, chairman of the All Congress Board, who's offering these budgets. [[Up front.]] However, the government of Sigmundur Davíð, the Gunnlaugsson of Gunnla, could no more. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir looked to this national drama but took away the plan and broke it because it could be done. Now we are in control, their thoughts could be heard - because it was possible. This made a grin as intelligent as the one playing about the face of a dog. The chairman of the budget board is now turning aside from the necessary infrastructure... [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u72	The president asks why. Councilmen guard their words with other members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u73	A respectable president. Look at the face of the dog. While the senator is a little struggling here, the members of Congress give their talks seriously about serious matters involving the lives and land of this nation. It's not really enough for you to talk here in front of people and look at faces of grinning people. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u74	Can senators sit in the hall?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u75	So I can finish my story now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u76	President wants to ask both of you. Senators guarding their word.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u77	A respectable president. I'm going to finish my speech and pick a word for myself in this speech and hope that I can do it without incident. I had already come to know that the current government will remove an investment plan of the former government just because it was possible and therefore removed from the necessary infrastructure, including the transport, of course, is essential for our country's land to survive, to sustain and thrive, and to make the parts of the country equal and to be competitive to one another. As the people know, and especially the country, conditions vary greatly between parts of the country, for in the past few years, there have been ongoing urban disorders in many settlements. Transporting is as if we know the key factor in the possibility of a resurrection from difficulties and a return to competitiveness, building up a job life, attracting human resources and opportunities, e.g. in the traveling work, which, of course, is important to the country and is a rapidly growing industry. Instead, we are now looking at a road system that is damaged, and all that is being done in this regard is, as noted in previous speeches, actions, and decisions made by former governments. A respectable president. It sucks to see the government's emphasis on the business of the State. This year's bill actually says everything that needs to be said. I also call attention to the Committee's opinion of my section of the budget committee to the bill, which is logical and detailed in how the bill actually violates the State's budget for the role of budgets, which are intended to address the inevitable issues, e.g. Unforeseen events such as new agreements or new legislation, but not for plans for new projects or management halls of individual states. However, the bill we are discussing includes clearly what would have been designed for. In view of the loss of the part, it also points to what I think is appropriate for me to draw attention to, that there is a very inaccurate schedule, e.g. In terms of the bank's income and the like. It has become clear, as it says, that the poor child - welfare rates have been too high and have not been able to balance the status of a child's family to the desired level. A respectable president. It comes to mind when you examine this bill for financial support. Finally, I would like to make the adjustment of my contribution to the budget where the fair proposal for older citizens and disability will be added in accordance with the increase of the lowest salary and the increase in pay from May 1 this year to the level of pay in the general labour market. In fact, it is the least that can be done for this group, and it would be a disgrace to the council not to do so, especially in the light of the repetitious reinstatement of the general council. This would cost about 6.6 billion dollars. which is not a very large amount in the large context. It is close to being the amount of money that was spared in the fishing fees when this government set priorities for the rich and the few at the expense of the many and the small.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u78	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Ólína K.. The villager's Þorvarðardóttir for a talk in which she covered the stage well and the changes to the highest degree. A government is developing an Icelandic community, all changes that are in the direction of increasing the discrepancies, i.e. Improve the favor of those who already have it, but do not improve, or even impair, the quality of those who lean on their feet. One thing like that. A senator entered his talk was the fishing fee and reduced the cost. Now it was shown in the question of why. A senator and the chairman of a budget board, Vigdís Hauksdóttir, can't remember whether it was in a sermon earlier today or in a counterargument, that the government fund is still paying taxes for the interest, a seabed company paying less in fishing fees than they pay. I'd like to ask you what. A senator would agree with me in that this is actually a bread loaf theory, where the state's funds are due for paying taxes or income that buy out the profits and profits that the big companies, the most successful ones, pay their owners.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u79	Mr. President. I couldn't agree more. Senator. You see, it's the breadcrumb economics of its worst form. It's like this. But to thank one of the most powerful sectors in the country specifically to pay taxes and obligations to the community, as we all do, each of the business companies in the country does, is not the reasonable and natural vision that we want to be involved in, including the industry, in the economic structure of the country. As I came into my speech, we all made sacrifices in the collapse, both professional and individual. Now that it's time to pass the right thing, you find it hard to deal with a business that makes so much profit and profit money for access that the national resources are not driven to socialize with the rest of us, that it should not really be money from the services of industry that help us repair the national hospital, to improve the interests of the worst in the country. It is the tragic vision, and it is, of course, in this which crystallizes the difference between right control and left control. JóhannaSigurðardóttir I was able to establish priorities and defend the welfare system in times when it would have been very easy to break it down by right men's logic and ideologies.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u80	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Yes, it is indeed true that in this I think I am simply putting into practice what society is and how to run it. Is it supposed to be socialized, where who would suggest what he can and do with pride? In my mind, it should be those companies and people with whom it can be of great interest to put into practice their community so that they could run factors such as health care, education, and all the things that I think we really agree to be factors that identify a good society. But there is somehow a problem with answering in the discussion on budgets without entering the adjustment proposal as a smaller part of the problem. The legislators suggest that both older citizens and disability will be reimbursed, just as other groups have received compensation this year. So I want to ask you why. A senator: It is estimated that just about 21 billion years ago. A profit from government funds. If it is not now the time to improve the benefits of those who live with the greatest poverty in Icelandic society, if that is not now, is it ever?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u81	Mr. President. It is absolutely true that at some point there was material to correct the course and to achieve something that can be settled or corrected, it is now. We're talking about government funds, and we're talking about something else, and we know that bad business routes are there. In particular, it may be in the light that it hurts so much to see the priorities of the present government. We can only see where prosperity and social reconciliation are the richest in the countries around us. It is where communities have been built on the basis of social predecessors, such as on the grounds of the anti-human groups of the North countries. There is much more community reconciliation, and there is no breaking of certain fundamentals. It is very sad to see, however, in Iceland that one piece of service is being broken up after another. In this little 300 you. a society in which we should be able to cooperate and realize that we are one nation after all, and it is shocking that there is a secret plan for privatization of sensitive health care, hidden plans for things that are not to be carried out, for example, at the same time as being crushed under those who really need nothing, such as builders and wealthys in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u82	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for his fine speech. I know we're both concerned about transportation, and it's like those lawsuits involved in infrastructure, whether transport or tourism status, are some of the remainder size of this government. Things are always being saved at the 11th hour when everything's out of the question. In this budget, 1.3 billion are being added to new projects and for funding the maintenance and road system because of the large stream of travel to the country, where people will choose four or five places to set that amount. I'd like to hear from what happened. A senator as to how he feels about this kind of work, that it is not followed by a fixed and traditional policy-making process on the disposition of the capital in that case, that it comes in so late and in terms of the presence of the Council, the environment and transport committee, how this capital divides and priorities, and over the heads what it is, in fact, in the context of the largely small sums scheduled for this seminary party. Now we both know the need for structure in both road and land roads in our major districts, and we can also say that there have been other subversive examples, such as those in the North and East, and in the East. What's the matter? A senator on the trade, and how is this work done, that it's late and finally coming, and that all careers are omnipresent?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u83	A respectable president. It is natural to say that the ambitions of this labor - colored government are a factor in how this work is carried out. It's a shame not to estimate for the construction of tourist facilities and that we should be here with a road system that is damaged. The construction, maintenance, and repair of roads is a national project that is useful to all parts of the country but that has enormous significance. It may be said that the road system is a resource and that we need to care for the resource, since it is a means of transportation that has been built up and it is very important not to be damaged, because it costs a lot, it may cost a lot to save. It's obvious that too little is in place, including Because the emphasis is not on these factors. The infrastructure is left-over size, as the senator put it so well, and it is shocking to see when we know that there is money, money can be made. It is not as if we are now facing a crisis that justifys letting this happen. On the contrary, thanks to action, the country is rising. Fortunately, some activities are being carried out in the road system today, which is due to the decision of the last government. Of course, there is little ambition in this regard, especially because we can afford and should be able to give. A natural economic idea says that in the field of good, you should collect the storehouses so that you have a table for carrying already hardened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u84	Mr. President. It is painful for some to listen to the fact that the major roads have been determined by the last government, which is the way the truth is. But I'd like to know what it is. A senator fears that what has been fought for a long time will not be made up of, as it were, such great projects as animal tunnels. A treatment strategy is not available, and specific areas in the capital area are now developing. Economic and economic policies refer to the state as an injection when the economy is low, but rather withdraws when it comes to private growth or economic growth, as is the case in certain areas, but far away from the country. This may be affected by the areas in the country that are always left behind and where measures planned for an investment plan, such as the animal surface, were not immediately implemented. We're in danger of missing the train. We always land somewhere between ship and dock. Today, the maintenance of this right government, which has been extremely effective in the areas of transportation and infrastructure, may be reduced. This may show that it will not be considered good for the State to go on some major project that has been waiting for decades, such as. In general, animal tunnels and transportation in the country, just when you imagined that it was finally time to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u85	A respectable president. It has now been so tragic to observe, for example, the Vests, that there has been evidence of short - lived expansion or crisis that the interests of the part of the country cannot be guaranteed in the way that he really should, especially with the resources he has ahead of the rocks. There is always a danger that major projects that have been suspended when there is a sensation in the economy, as some of them are now taking place. But I suppose so much was to be done in the first tunnel program set forward almost two decades ago. They've been ready for long years and it would be totally below all caves if men were to scour them out of the board now, as important as they are now for this part of the country, the development of the tourism services, as well as the integration of administrative institutions and the plans for the integration of rural communities in this area, because there is no other connection over the winter months between the south and the north of the Vestoriasfjords. It would be natural for this scene, for the council, to be completely shameful if men were to betray the promises and plans that have existed next in line, and I don't believe it until I accept it. Of course, this government is faithful to all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u86	Mr. President. In 2015, we will discuss a bill for a fundraiser, and in my speech I will use a committee opinion from a smaller section of the year. The legal committee to help me through various factors that I find important in this discussion. Perhaps it is in the beginning that the original balance of government funds is strengthened by over 17 billion according to the bill, and the total balance of the state's budget will be 20.9 billion. I like to keep that number in mind because it shows that the goods of a government fund are, which, fortunately, I'd like to let myself say, pretty good and better be on top of it and turn around quite seriously from the big minus that happened here in the collapse. There's nothing but a good thing to say that the state fund is up to the good plus. It does, however, matter how we employ the funds that are made up of. I think it's less of a dog. The financier points out and criticizes that when it comes to reimbursement to form Iceland's Lands Bank, there were not enough accurate programs and that this also happened last year. It was then assumed that government funds would only give us 6 billion dollars. But then it turned out to be 21 billion. The 2016 budget bill expects only 7.1 billion to be paid for by the National Bank for financial gain. Looking back at the previous two years, however, these payments are likely to be much higher. That's what matters. Even if it is not good to overdo things, it is not good to overdo them. We must want this to be as practical as possible to make accurate plans. Among other things, we put the lines in perspective on the way we are going to run our community and focus on the amount of money we have to spend on it. Mr. President. There's another thing I'd like to come in here for the tourism fund and the roads have been completely maligned for the budgets of the past few years, but a small fortune has been introduced into this important category. I don't really believe that everyone agrees that money must always be made in them, but that is, in terms of money being put into them. We all know about the tourist attractions that we need funding because everyone sees the tremendous increase in the number of tourists that have become. It is necessary to build timbers so that it is possible to receive them. I think everyone also sees and knows that more money has to come into the road and road account because there is simply need for maintenance, and this is one of the things that have been left behind while there was not much money in the financial budget. I think it's about time we put this money in, not just for financial aid, but for financial support. The fact that we're putting money on budgets, but that it wasn't actually in the budget itself, has something to do with both practices. Vigdís Hauksdóttir, chairman of the budget committee, used to shave in his entropy speech. paritaprevir It was also in her talk by Oddný Harðardóttir, in which she was a member of the committee's section of the committee's opinion. The budget board. Fundamental funds are primarily designed to address unseen or inevitable incidents, and many have pointed to the influence of new agreements that we all know are just what we now have to deal with. However, the performance of tourism and road sites is not unexpected but, rather, very anticipated. They need to be on money, and there is a need to put money in it. One reason for my initial decision to get involved in politics was my willingness to contribute to creating a community in Iceland, where, whether rich or less, everyone could live a decent, decent life. It connects me to the next factor I'd like to make here a subject, child support. The goal is to balance the status of a child's family. There I feel that it is extremely important to look at the situation as a solution so that poor children's families will be well supported by the government in order to provide their children with a better life. Here's 600 million. K. Which is to be eliminated, and the less the matter of it. The legal committee points out this in their review and considers it to be the highest level. A financial and economic minister could have published scenarios that show how this funding was to be distributed in the form of child reform between social groups. Then it could have been shown how, in effect, they spread, and how this abnormality manifests itself, resulting in this massive withdrawal of 600 million, as I said. I'll take it from the bottom of my mind. The legal committee because, as I said, there is an enormously important instrument to balance children's positions. Children do not choose into what kind of family they are born with no control over whether their parents are income - rich or poor income. I think it's one of the things we're supposed to do as a community, to equal the ideals for all children to enjoy life. The community is to participate in reducing the distinction between children because of their parents'financial situation. The minority feels that the targets have not been established when changing the rules of child development resulting in more efficient revenues. Furthermore, the minority feels that it has not been demonstrated that these changes were undisputed. It means not only talking about how we're going to take the money out of the state's budget but also about getting money into the money. In this regard, hunting costs have been referred to very often. They have been significantly reduced since their current peak. Government took over the government of the country. At the same time, it has been that today, with tremendous success, we have seen how much money it has been able to pay. There are truly many companies in their position that they should be able to contribute significantly to society, e.g. In the form of a fishing fee, which in my mind is nothing but natural and fair. I'd like to use the method to direct in my community that those who have conceived the most but that the state will reassign the funds to the most needed. Here I think they've taken the best possible payment on the government. Of course, there are more companies than just the development I think should pay more for society than they do right now. Indeed it can, and perhaps it is best to mention in this instance because the fishing costs have been dropped during the last losses. I see that my time is getting blown away, and eventually I want to make the subject of the transition to my share. The budget board. She turns to the older citizens' jurists and disabilitys, and in the opinion of the committee, she says, with permission of the Supreme Court. President: With the changes in the memory of the part, a fair proposal for an older citizen and disability to be added in accordance with the increase in the minimum salary and pay increase from May 1 this year as in general pay. It is suggested that about 6.6 billion dollars be granted. a donation to improve the interests of older citizens and disability. I feel rather weak to say that I truly agree with this suggestion because I think it's quite important. As I said before, income waste is now and there will still be income waste, even if we go to this retrospective increase. If by now the elderly and the poor are not served at a table, I do not know when it would be time for this group to make a good dresser. Right away. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson asked the highest. The prime minister, whether it was the time to improve the quality of the poor, understood the answer to the highest degree. The prime minister thought so. He said thank you. In particular for keeping the council in mind what this was all about, a senator said that he was hoping for cooperation between government and government opposition at work. The legal committee and then the problem could be addressed. Mr. President. Now the rest is gone, and now it's going to be a test to see if the entire U.S. world really wants to improve the quality of disability. A suggestion in this world has come out. Hv. paritaprevir A few days ago, Hjövar's Hjörvar so correctly pointed out from this public address that we, the Allied Council, are desperate. We have this in our hand. The funds exist, and that's why it's just a question of whether we want to improve the interests of older citizens and poorer people. Do we want to do it again, as was done in a public market, increasing from May 1 on May 1 and, like our reward in this section, increased from March 1 onward? The nation's will has been investigated, and it was found in a Gallup survey that the Micro-Englance League made for itself that more than 90% of responders felt unable to survive the production of micro-piercs since some have no record of unless you have a 172. K. per month. I'm saying that I don't think I can live on this low enterprise. Similarly, 95% of respondents felt that pensioners should have as high or higher a dollar count as anybody's lowest salary. The fact is that 95% believes that it should do as well, if not better, with disability, and therefore, I encourage all members of the Parliament to accept the change in my sector. The budget board. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u87	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for her excellent speech. I thought it was quite well and clear, especially with regard to the ideals of microbubbles and the elderly and the great discount on the fishing fees we have noted today, which, of course, is one of the most shocking testimony to the emphasis on the present government. The senator also handled the child - welfare business, which was interesting and good to listen to. But I just want to go inside. The more she feels about the emphasis, the more the emphasis you read from the bill. If the senator sees clear lines in the priorities of the government, and in what interest is this priorities determined. A senator? Does she agree with me that these are really wrong priorities? Or is setting priorities for those who have the most widely held banks in our society, those who, in reality, should be doing their part to raise their social burdens because, for example, have been fully able to produce what has been done? I would like to hear more closely the senator's viewpoint in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u88	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the question. Yes, I believe this is the highest priority. Governments. We've seen them since she took over what her emphasis is. A very large part of it as the highest. The government has been in the best interests of those who already have, i.e. to remove the curses, to pay for the State, and as a result, there is, of course, less money in a government fund, which means less money is to be put in the medical system. There's less money to put into the welfare system, and there's less money to put into education. There is less money to put into the equipment we have the equal value in our country. [[Up front.]] This, of course, leads to an increase in space. The terms of those who have already improved as long as the ideals for those whose feet, such as pensioners, are not improved, and the gap between them and those who are better off in the community will be relative. Yes, it is the emphasis that I read primarily from both this bill as well as other great works of the present government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u89	Mr. President. Well, then I understand why. A senator is absolutely correct, and he agrees fully with her. All I want to do is mention the plan itself, as it appears on the budget bill. For example, how does that impress the senator in the light of current laws on the government's financial affairs? Is this a normal procedure, considering the senator's use of funding that we see here, i.e. the response to things that might have been predictable a long time ago and could have been predicted at the beginning? I'll give you an example of a tourist position. I'd like to hear how this is happening. A senator's impression is that this is an odd method of work, and it makes me feel insecure, to say the least. In the old days, there might have been talk of an ass-hand job in this context.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u90	Mr. President. As I mentioned in my speech, it crystallizes so much when it comes to construction, especially the tourist attractions, and as a means to the road, that money is not expected in the budget as it can be seen. It only takes meeting people, you know exactly what they're talking about, and that includes the need to strengthen the infrastructure because of the enormous number of tourists. And everyone driving around the country knows that long ago it's time for maintenance in a number of places. This is somehow such an enormously clear example of an unforeseeable project. These are things that always have to be assumed for financial reasons. That is why it becomes so clear that it is actually going against the role that funds are meant to be done. However, it is then noted that the role of a budget is to meet unexpected expenses, including changes caused by collective agreements. Then you would have thought that where changes are being made in terms of collective agreements, the group dependent on the State for its survival must be under it as well and then I'm obviously talking about older citizens and micro-managers who will be, if the changes in my share will not be approved, probably the only group that doesn't get better in 2015. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u91	A respectable president. Now, I'd like to do a few words on this bill at 2nd. there is good reason. We even see good looks for this year. Resources are even more evident than expected, and in many ways there are envy in the national industry, a very good source of transportation, such as the marine road, and high growth in tourism. Of course, we also enjoy the fruits of difficult maintenance measures in the past. When it comes to budgeting, you will need to respond when too little time has been spent in the current year. As a result, during the past few years, the financial resources of various institutions, especially health and social systems, are very narrow, and thus may be more than one reason to make donations. I note in the suggestion of a greater part of the Committee that an additional 470 million will be produced on the basis of pharmaceuticals to meet reevaluation of health insurance for the estimated annual budgets to be less than 8.8 billion on current budgets and increase by 570 million. K. ... whichis 7 percent out of budget. What matters is, in itself, not to receive a complete explanation for this additional development, but I do not see whether there is a need that has truly been discovered in this year because of the eating-alive drug that has refused to allow more than a small number of people to use highly important drugs that can prevent premature blindness, and so is the hepatitis case known, which was widely discussed during the year. It is normal to make allowances that I know to meet the needs that have come to light and provide services that are life-saving or that are important for the quality of life, such as avoiding premature blindness, rather than going on the cold, timeline that health insurance has gone and simply say, "We have a lot of people here who can take the medicine relative to our plans and if you are so unfortunate to be number 31 in the order when 30 have received the medicine, you will not get it and you are left with a cruel fate. This is not in harmony with the methodology we have developed in our health care and in other aspects of our community service. For example, we do not accept life - saving treatment or treatment for the sick. We do not say to men with fractures: I'm sorry, we've done with so many fractures this month that we just don't do more now. Similarly, there is an urgent need to have a reasonable work programme for health insurance when people need expensive drugs, which have prevented the serious consequences of diseases such as the blind and the hepatitis. I'd like to then make it a subject of the change in memory, for it's the major factors that I think we can all agree that it's normal to look at when we're looking at the entire scope of the budget this year, which is soon over. The most important factor is the change in social security spending proposals to increase from May 1 this year on as well as pay-effective development in low-pay contracts. Now you hear the government, the highest. Prime Minister repeated this morning, insisting on not allowing social security benefits to reflect progress on low pay contracts of a general labour market. In logic, the highest. This morning the subject could be identified by the prime minister in question time that the system that we now had by current law ensured that we were going to update people on social security benefits according to pay development. That is correct, but the contracts that have been made, in a general labour market as well as in the national labour market as in the employer's hands, include increases after four months of the year, i.e. By the end of the third year. Increasings are being carried out on May 1 as well as on the present year. Hence, the vast majority of the world's population are still on the move. The prime minister will be right in terms of the fact that on January 1, 2017, the pensioner will become a pensioner with a price like that of a salary, which will be eight months in 2015, with less money than the hired man and eight months in 2016, with less hands than the hired man. So he, of those two years, has been equal to the wage man for eight months but has been behind him for 16 months. They see who you are that the result is not logical. It does not ensure that the spirit of the law that the pay period for a pensioner will reflect the general market development of its purpose. I think it is important to review examples from 2011 when last low paying contracts were made with a declared goal of increasing the lowest salary. Then, in the present government, we gave up these increases in the same way to a pensioner. Not probably. It wasn't legal. It was also not a contract obligation, but we believed it to be the natural consequence of the moral commitment that the state paid by the remuneration agent had made by acknowledging at the contract table that the lowest wages in excess of others would have to be increased in the same way and that social security would need to be improved. If you agree in a labour market that the lowest salary is worth what a person can expect, as with the collective agreement now for us that the government has written for its own satisfaction, then the criteria for a person's ability to work would also apply to those who are unable to work because of age or lack of ability to work. This leads to the logical conclusion that there is no way for the State to stick to the highest interpretation. Prior to this morning, the prime minister remanded, hiding behind current legislation on the update of minimum-knuckled pensioners at a year's convention. I'd also like, a respectable president, to make interest improvements and child support into publicity. It is interesting to note that the government has taken both these musculoskeletal systems to tighten the limit and interpret them literally in order that if financial rights are not emptied because of the poor markets, the rest will be cut down instead of giving back to the park and emptying the legal authority. It would be normal in view of the fact that child development has been planned for children, but historically it has not been intended to be a minimum compensation. Now I hear that the World Bank Fund has been inspired and motivated by the government to cook up some report on changes in the tax system, which are to include an even more equalizing role in the children's recovery system. I just have to say, I think there's a lot of reverse development that's going to take on a lot of trouble in the middle of nowhere. It seems, in fact, that the government's policy and the majority of its share are constantly weighed by this progressive development achieved by the average carpentry, both by the child reform system and by the growth process. When it comes to growth, it is of great interest that it actually contains the same story. Due to the calculated domestic benefits of increasing property prices, the home's network grew in housing. This means paying less interest on the property reforms of the growth system. Now, it is well known that the growth reform system was well designed at the outset, but it has now come to remind me of 65 different types of available thresholds. As a result, if income increases and remuneration increases in housing, the dwindling benefits that people have a right to make, even though the pay is not partly reduced, since the burden of payment remains the same. It is widely known that people have at times been tempted to borrow a loan on an increasing real - estate assessment because they see in the paper that the property in their housing is growing. It has not been considered good Latin, and it has not been considered commendable when people have thus bet on a vague future. A famous economist, Bjarni Bragi Jónsson, who was an assistant bank manager, used to call this an automotive, i.e. when, in effect, men were drawing money from themselves. It's very strange if the government is beginning to practice saving its own pay which is supposed to be supportive of biographies and shielding itself behind the calculated sizes like this. I simply think that this describes a great lack of understanding of the nature of child reforms and growth reforms and the main objective of both systems to lighten with those living in certain external circumstances is to bring up children and to set up housing and, of course, aims to increase the provision of these households in particular. I don't think that the government's change in attitude towards these two reform systems is a good thing. A respectable president. I'm not going to discuss particularly other aspects of this matter as they are available. I remind you, though, that I must mention some of the projects at tourist locations. This is well explained in part's opinion as to how to warn that the amount of money planned for the tourism network was used when a budget was not made at all, no more than the previous year. It's amazing to see how badly the government is planning for this team. What the government has developed in the development of tourist facilities has become serious. No one talks about natural passes or special pay paid on tourists. It is of concern that now that we have a new branch in the Icelandic economy, which earns more than 30% of the income, we have lost the opportunity to repay it with the most natural currency of its years in order to make it pay in a common fund and to live under investments. On the contrary, a large proportion of infrastructure investments are inevitable due to increased pressures on road and airports and the tourist location itself. This will be carried out by general tax dollars in competition with other national cleaning projects such as building up, health care, and education systems. Thus, we are once again making a job way in Iceland, which does not represent sustainable payment by means of an investment that is necessary for him to function. So the Tilt Clinic of this government continues to exist. Just as men lost their opportunity at the time of the greeting system, which was a lot of good luck, but they lost the opportunity to create a payment that provided the owner of the resource with a natural price for its use, we now see a new growing industry, which we have failed to pay on the normal dues to its having the necessary internalisation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u92	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Páll's Árnason years for his speech and especially for its introduction to the medication issues and the suggestion that most of the cases are involved. The budget is included in bringing in an extra amount of money to cover the increase in drug use spending in the current year, where it has been estimated to exceed the expected amount. Now, in the opinion of my part, it's just a little less. The legal committee pointed out that when it comes to making money from the Lands Bank, they were highly underestimated and criticized that the plans there were no better. It is also critical of my opinion. Funds at the top. Economic and economic ministers would already have been able to produce stage-breaking programs for the spread of the decrease rate and spread between social groups. So I'd like to ask you why. A senator: Is it just so that it is planned at the highest level? Financial and economic ministers, or even the highest. A government is lacking? Do we see, however, that this project is simply lacking in this bill for financial support?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u93	A respectable president. I appreciate the question. First of all, it seems that it is merely a methodology that has been adopted by health insurance, which is that of taking a very expensive medication and giving them permission only according to the original plans. The extra demand, of course, must be made with drugs, just as with all other treatments because of circumstances beyond control, is pushed forward to the next year or until funds come back with the harsh result that people can experience serious consequences, such as loss of sight. This is simply a matter of methodology, which has nothing to do with planning, a human anti-human structure which is adopted by the institution and is not a matter of nature, and the government should be in hand with the problem and correct it. In turn, the other factor was affected. A senator asks about them, but I'm not sure that, for example. in the case of children's reforms, there is a lack of plans. I simply think that the government has made a conscious decision to make the children's recovery system grow. When child damages start at 200 yards. K. With 409 of you, a couple with one child, earn and suffer complete loss. K. can be said nothing more than that a government at the same time uses money to reduce taxes to the upper average income groups is making a conscious decision to change child reform into low income gains, not benefits that benefit ordinary people.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u94	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I agree with you that this is a humane way of doing things when it comes to the pharmaceuticals. In fact, I think that by misappreciating things, a certain political bitch may also be accomplishing. I think we always need to keep that in mind, even though we may not discuss it any more right here and now, because I want to use my last seconds in order to establish my new proposal. The legislature board that deals with senior citizens and disability. I'd like to ask you what. Senator: If not now at any rate in the state's funds, when 95% of the people say in surveys they think this group should get comparable if not higher than in the general labour market? [[The president calls.]] When, if not now, should such compensation be applied?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u95	A respectable president. I simply share that assessment with the wind. A senator is now in a situation. In fact, I think it is that if collective labour agreements include a general increase in the lowest salary, then there is always a obligation to react specifically, it is simply that there is an imbalance between the lowest salary and the improvement in social security are undefeated by moral standards. Our first work in the United States when we arrived in the 2007 government, when Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir sat in the Ministry of Social Affairs, was raising a lot of the lowest benefits and setting up a living insurance policy that even at that time went over the lowest salary and guaranteed those who had no pension payments. [[The president calls.]] There was a calm operation because there had been an unacceptable interval between the lowest pay and the improvement in social security. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u96	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Páll the Árnason of Athenian before his speech I especially want to talk to him about the issues in which we carried out our tourist attractions. In his speech, a member of the body became a subject of talk. It is now, as shown in the case of the day. The senator, who had the government's idea of nature passes, fired on a shield during his last assembly, was shipwrecked. In fact, I counted many and many more of them. Councilmen intended to make some kind of transnational consultation with income sources to support tourism, but this was not the case. However, all party members at that time spoke for some sort of mixed way, for example, that the increase of the cost of the stay would be considered, the possibility of coming and leaving expenses. This would also be determined by the spread of income between state and rural society, in view of the fact that many rural areas have suggested that the income of tourism does not yield to the rural communities, which still have to make significant costs of building up. So I'd like to ask you why. It is surprising that this is the second year inexorable need of a tourist attraction and not merely a suggestion in the bill itself but also the addition of a financial committee as a result of the introduction of a host tax - what way he made it. How can we better get these things going? We've been listening for a presentation from the highest level. Industrial Minister, secretary of travel, with a travel management center set up, but still you feel a bit out of control, at least in this discussion about financing. I call it a glimpse of what happened. A senator owns this party.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u97	A respectable president. I share that opinion with you. A senator who was amazed that no other ideas were produced after the natural rights adventure broke out. It was quite clear, it came here in the council because there was no support, not even in the management team, and it would have been possible with a simple pacification of the members of the House of Congress to find out. But I sensed them, e.g. On the left. Jón Gunnarsson, president of the pro - trade committee, is determined to feel exactly the way it was. A senator mentioned a reconstituted route that could ensure that by making a special payment of about a billion a year, it could be done through the reconstituted route with certain parking fees at all the most popular positions, with landing charges, with a stay-up fee, and then possibly by some exchange of these incomes between the state and rural society. As a result, I am amazed that the government's compulsion to skirt - crescent hospitals is never to allow any professions to pay the real cost of the services it receives. It is, in fact, quite remarkable that here we are living in a industry with more than 30% of the nation's currency income, which does not provide the actual cost of building infrastructures that are vital to it. Maybe it's just a project that should be taken up on a professional committee, since the government has no initiative in getting involved, that members and members of the Committee agree to develop and install such a system, because it's very bad to go into the upcoming years without the use of currency opportunities, and even though the money was not spent in a new budget in that year, they would be in a fund and could be taken care of for years in the future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u98	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I agree that the important thing is to look for ways to get some more reasonable land in this category. I think it's also a promising place to watch income companies and rural partners. We're looking up at a number of failures in the situation between state and rural society. We need to see which ways are involved. But very brief at the end, if any. A senator has time. He also made child reforms a subject of his speech and the development that is really going to occur, that they are primarily useful to the most commercial family, not to middle - income families. I know what you're doing. For example, to have data from our neighboring countries in the North countries, do we have a member of the council in order to see what they are doing there when it comes to child repairs? If not, I believe at least that it would be important for the council to have such evaluations of how these systems vary from country to country, because we are seeing this system changing very quickly here through budgets and funding without perhaps the political debate, policy-change, Mr. President. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u99	A respectable president. That's a good question. I don't have data from neighboring countries, but support children's families is less connected to income than here and goes up the business field. You're right. A senator mentioned, of course, we are seeing the highest. The secretary of finance introduces inconsistencies found in the strange report of the World Bank that was published that day, which is just destroying the children's saving system. Is it, then, that both the child - saving system and the growth reform system, these local capitals, are about to be destroyed in the hands of the current government? The find on the average side of the government is naturally quite unique. I don't think there's an example of the same in social living times, that when there's financial space, these important reform systems should be deliberately reduced and their income balance role and their biomass to provide temporary support to people who are involved in the community - important work, i.e. To put a roof over his head and raise children. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u100	A respectable president. I now thank you for this talk, even though it was very incomprehensible in its chapters. It's like whisk. paritaprevir The Árni in Árnason's life was that of Cuba the North, as described by Gylfi Magnússon about a year. Hv. A senator speaks of an anti - human structure involving the pharmaceutical structure of the Icelanders. Nothing has changed in the history of this government. Are we going to talk about human anti-human behavior? For example, should we talk about the mayor of the United States today sealing a store in the basement of his house and we mean disabled access, received a release from the city he himself controls, so the disabled do not have access to this store? Let's just figure out what they're talking about here. I can't believe you're enjoying such public talk that paints such a black picture of society. But it may be that after the loss of the last election, the Union can only see black. It just has to be. We know the Conspiracy is a relief party. Here, the senator gave a long list of how tasteless it would be for the government to know that the child benefits that did not go out - notice - due to the rise in society's income should not still go to the relevant people, since that is always the expected amount. Fortunately, a respectable president, the community is doing better. Fortunately, there is a higher income in society, so fewer people need compensation. Hv. A senator spoke of giving back to the garden if there were to be leftover funds, for example, from these items. [[The president calls.]] I ask him, " How would he have done that in his time as a social minister, giving back to the park without breaking the law? ' [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u101	A respectable president. First of all, I don't know about construction here in the city, but I can explain why. A senator what I mean by human anti-human behavior. It's when Iceland's Medical Insurance decides to pay just for a certain number of people because their plans for how much drugs are going to go on, like the much medicine that has been in the discussion that can help prevent premature blindness. Then it is only the problem of elderly people and of people with diseases that this drug can help them to see that they are facing loss of vision because they have the health insurance that they decided on. There was no democratic political agent who decided to do so. There were concertists in the city who decided to do so. The same procedure is not used at the hospital; people are not dismissed who have a fracture because the fracture has been completed. Heart attack does not cause people to die because their heart repair has been completed. This is a humanistic practice because there is no need to blind people needlessly, fiercely. Senator. That is what health insurance does with the blessing of the government and clearly the chairman of the legal committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u102	Those are big words.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u103	In the case of child reform, when the system and limit are reached, child reform starts at 200 levels. K. in people with one child and completely impaired at 409 you. K. Of course, because the benefits are not meant to compensate for the loss of income, there has become a lot. There's a misunderstanding. Senator. It has nothing to do with whether a person's income is growing or not; the benefits are intended to cover the expenses of raising children. [[The president calls.]] If income increases, then prices are also increasing that increase the cost of having children. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u104	A respectable president. Now I'm accused of people getting blind in Iceland. It's a matter of business. This does not refer to the marvelous drug contract that governments had to deal with hepatitis C. Here, the government takes place and eliminates hepatitis C in the country. The contract is about 10 billion, but the government pays only 450 million. K. in three years. Don't talk about it. Councilmen of the United States of America. It's all too good news. You might as well stay on with that negative. But with regard to child reforms and compensations; fortunately, growth improvements also go down in the government's expenses. This shows that the fall of debt worked. People have more in their homes, less debts, and thus reduce their interest. That's how it's a simple calculation. [[The president calls.]] But here it is used as a political club, that the government is cutting everything down. [[The president calls.]] It's on a very sad plan, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u105	A respectable president. It's wrong that growth reforms are falling because the fallout worked. As a result, they are down payment on the value of housing, the payments of the people are just the same as the people who live with them because this government has decided to make it its urge to attack the average carers as well as the cutbacks of growth and child - reforms. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] Then, clearly, it is. A senator does not understand that these benefits are not meant to improve the loss of income. They are designed to support people because they have additional expenditures. This has nothing to do with income, and as a result, overemphasis on income and income targets are wrong and does mean that the government does not understand what it is like to try to help averagers with growth reforms and child - making. [[The president calls.]] That's why the government is destroying it, and it's a little special to see this government's campaign against the average and middle - class members of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u106	V.E.G. President. First, what is positive in this bill for the budget that is now being submitted. Fortunately, in Icelandic society over the last few years, we have seen some improvements in income, some of which are put to account, but in my opinion it is not enough and large, and the important groups of languages are left out. I said it's the positive thing, the reversal that has taken place in Icelandic society over the last two years. I wonder if these are other laws that are left over. Let us bear in mind, though the prime minister may be a bit diligent in taking possession of and doing this whole government, the project of the last government to save the land from bankruptcy, and sadly, he would have to cut down the sails that had to be made. But it's turning around. That's why I say that the result is a combination of two, three last governments that have been, and especially during the last term, in which a government fund was restored, as it were. It's not like running a government fund for years with a tilt. Let us bear in mind that when the last government took over, the budget looked up to a level of up to $22 billion. So it is only natural that things have worked out. The last government was punished terribly, including for cuts and so on. That is why it was always clear to us that once things began to improve in the society that we were always sure would happen, we were going to straighten out the cow and turn the defense into a offense, they should return what had been taken care of. It has to be said, as it is, that somewhere in the leading section, there are two, three lines that mention this point I've made here as a subject and that there's something I've had to do. What I'm going to do first is I miss how few more parts are here, except the two people in the room now from a budget board. You know, with this sort of talk... [[Up front.]] Yes, I'm glad that two of the senators of the Future Party who are on the budget are here and listen to my case. I hope they answer the questions I'm going to ask which are my comments to the bill, I hope they'll be able to answer some of them. I'm going to begin first with what I don't understand yet, why the government is in this denial, this stupidity, or whether it's an insult or just some slack. Here we have a budget bill for 2015, which accounts for the future 213/422 billion, and I predict that it will be 30 in 2015. Whether it's deliberately or unintentionally done, I feel that there are still hidden incomes in the system that are not set out. They may not be put out, or they may be forced to spend some of them more. What I'm going to do as a talker first is what I've been talking about in the World Council of the Last Days and Weeks, i.e. increase in pay to the elderly and to the poor. If we deal with the collective agreements, they're all retrospective, many to May 1, but the decision of the Cabinet Council, which took into account the League of colleges and others are backtraced to March 1, but the general market is fully deactivated to May 1. Why is there no greater suggestion that older ones and poorers will receive the higher levels of law - given reimbursement, as has been done in the market? What does it say? paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir? How does she argue that this is not done? I know the answers about the last government and Icezave and all that, I know it all, and I've often listened to it. A senator asks for answers other than theirs. [[Up front.]] But I just ask this simple question, How do you reason? A senator on behalf of the majority of the Committee that this is not done? The elderly and theoreticians have the smallest income in this society according to all records, and significant decreases in income from other sources, such as pension funds or capital gains. Why are they not restored like everyone else in society? Hv. paritaprevir Hjörvar's Helgi noted that the Allied Council is the advice of the elderly and the desperate. Well put. In fact, the chairman of this Reckon Council is the highest. Prime Minister Davíð Gunnlaugsson He has angry companions, one of whom is in a budget like the other. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir and Páll Jóhann Pálsson here. That's why I'm asking, because I haven't had any evidence to support it yet: Why isn't this done? That, of course, is to be done. Hence, how glad we are that the smaller portion contributes to a change of 6 billion dollars! additional expenses. Just right and natural, considering the rise in contracts. The budget assumes large expenditures of collective agreements, that's just normal. But why isn't this done? It's the smaller part that transports the modification proposal to reset it over time. She puts in financial clearances for her change of 384 million. K. ... tohomeworkand 287 million. K. for the special replacement of a pensioner. Thus, the conversation is 671 billion. K. which would be paid from the treasure of the state. It's an improvement under social assistance law. The smaller item also suggests changes in pension insurance in the bill for 2015, where, in turn, benecid, and repeatedly, 22 billion dollars are expected. leftover. There is a suggestion that pensions increase about 860 million. Dec., microenergy pensions about 490 million. At a rate of 221 billion age-related bioenergy supplementation. K. and income insurance insurance from a pensioner of 2.7 billion and insurance insurance from a microenergy pensioner of 1,633 million or a total of 5.9 billion dollars. I don't know what 6 billion would do in the expenses of government funds on pay raises by state servants or by law-sponsored voters, which number is this year. I haven't seen that number one set. But this is not really a lot of money, in the context of the making of collective agreements and corrections based on increasing the lowest wage to 300 yous. K. over two or three years. Of course, in my opinion it should also be followed for the elderly and the disability of the elderly. This is one of our greatest projects. To raise funds for the elderly and disability, and not to leave them alone with the pay we give them through this system. I'm gonna ask you again, and what's the matter? The chairman of the Vigdís Hauksdóttir's budget committee to come and try to explain to us why this isn't done. And I notice why. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson asks for an answer to my speech, and I expect him to answer that point. Of course, we are going to accept reimbursement under the Council of Peace and the Council of II against the elderly and the micropunchers. I don't want to believe anything else, a respectable president, but that the more part can see and accept either our proposal or make parapolitic agreement on this point, discuss its conclusions as well. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir described the work of a financial body committee so well in terms of public financial matters, which was almost completely in agreement. Why do we not try to reach it in the same way to the elderly and the desperate? They certainly have this right too. I will be in the second part of my talk to discuss a few other things. Here, for example, is about making money. It is described as what I think I probably said a year ago in a talk, that budget money was underestimated by 2015. In the afternoon, this was the right thing to do, and here's a little bit more money and it's just a little bit more money, for example. from the bank of the land to 25.6 billion instead of the estimated 6. I'm asking myself if this is done on purpose, whether it's the government's method of restraining members from demanding money for the others and the urgent task we owe due to return after the loss of our troubled years after the collapse of the bank and always saying that we should be corrected. In other words, I think money will go up. That's my projection for this year and next year too. Then I'm going to make it a subject of what most of the money did for 2015 when it demanded 700 million dollars. K. Isavia's remuneration to use for the construction of airports in many parts of the country. It was a noble and good goal. In fact, I think I supported it on a vote. Then a financial minister introduces himself to a budget board and says: "This is not possible because Istavia's credit ratings worsens, and Istavia needs to be on large and extensive projects south of Cheflavík because of the large number of tourists coming to the country. Then I ask: How do the expenses that have developed this year during the projects that have started and the income goes out? It may be that somewhere in the bill is paying for those expenses, but I haven't seen them. Then, of course, I'll make transportation a topic, the Road Building. There is a slight improvement in transport and especially in winter services, but costs for transport have increased in recent years and will continue to increase. For one thing, the changing weather patterns. There have been extra cover, more bellows, or ice cream, and it is expensive to maintain the road system in this regard. Since then, the cost has also been added by major tourism through the country, which makes enormous financial contributions to the state funds but does not take place in financing for the road to Vega. Last spring, a treatment plan was set up at the council because there was no transport plan. I gave a talk chair and I'll tell you once again: The transport program was Iceland record in doing nothing. In the past government, Iceland's record was set up during the most difficult years then, and it was never as successful as it was in those years. Now in the good section, you're cutting down. When more of the environment and transport committees stepped in and added to the transport programme for the Committee Jobs, understandably, it was nothing, and it was done by a committee, what happened then? What did the directors say about these extra expenses? No, thank you. This is not going to be approved. And a transport program was created. She wasn't run through. There is still no transport plan. It's not out yet. Then, as a result, a transport program with no means of transport is presented in a budget bill for 2016 that more cuts are to be cut down. The changes made on the part of the donations made to the roadtype are nothing. I'm asking why. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson wrote on these points. I ask why this year, on December 1, 2016, it was not used that the Roadmaker pointed out in February that it was possible to speed open up the North Coast for a whole winter, and to open it on December 1, 2016, instead of summer, or fall 2017, and to avoid going through the difficult Octoberl Pass through wintertime. The road took note of this in February. In June, the Ministry of State writes about finance, but nothing was done until the time was passed and the opportunity was not used. I know why it happened. The case was not followed. In addition, budgets are such as the transport program that the majority have agreed not to bring together funding for the project and the speed of work. In other words, the government thus operates on transportation, the small in progress, and we should keep in mind that it is all the means of transportation that began in the past government, to subsidize it. The contractor at the North Sea tunnel has had to lend large sums of the last part of the years to be carried out. Hear endemity, what a project. I'd like to ask about it, if any. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson, who often talks about transportation, along with what I asked about earlier, would answer about the money paid to Istavia, why here is nowhere 75 million. K. a donation requested from the Far East to finance half of the construction of the field at Ness shop, which is, in fact, the hospital hospital hospital emergency airport. A town fund there and a government firm have volunteered to pay half of the project and have 75 million smart to do that. No. It doesn't work for the high officials of the Far East, regardless of their independence, or those who pursue them, to speak with the council members of the greater part to receive it. So they're not gonna take this chance? A soon necessary operation will not, in fact, be made in terms of half the value of a government fund? I'd like to say another thing, because we're talking about transportation, which is telecommunications and the opticization of the country. Hv. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson was on the committee with urgency. paritaprevir Haraldur, son of Benediktsson, who also serves on a financial committee. A telecommunication was 300 billion. K. every year. There's nothing about growth here. The number of fiber - optics is estimated to be 6 billion. In view of the government plan, it will take 20 years. How do you do this? In addition, these messages and plans have begun to work against the espionage of the country. The government and the rest of the business are quick to offer contracts with rural society that those with money and who want to go on this right away will receive their pay when it comes to sharing the funds of the state, as state funds are going to do, and will proclaim to the telecommunications program. I can give you an example. In the United States, they are expected to place a 300 - mile [300 km] fiber optics that cost 300 million. K. This year, the same amount of money that the government guarantees is a source of communication. The fact that the government sector has not brought up what I was talking about, contracts with the rurals, makes it possible that the country society will probably postpone the project. Naturally, they don't want to put out 300 million. K. and throw away a return of 150◯200 when the coin comes back. This is where the plan is working against our objective. If I leave the road to other factors, such as baby reforms, interest improvements, and stock stocks, you can see that interest improvements are cut down and that's because the corrections have worked so well. No, that's not why. Happily, this is because housing prices have increased. It's beginning to match up and down with a lot of others. That's what's happening. Growth improvements have not kept up with what is a natural contribution from a government fund to meet young buyers at the first apartment. This is not done, so growth improvements have improved. And where's the birth stock? No answer. The same can be said of health care. Many recent visits have been made by the presidents of the Land Hospital to the financial committee. We who are not on the committee have heard from the news how those who came there were received. I have to say, as it is, I am ashamed of what it was done and how this meeting was conducted. It is wrong that the administrative body says that contributions are being made so much and never have gone to health care as they are now. [[The president calls.]] It's simply wrong. A respectable president. I'm going to end up saying, "Yeah, fortunately, there's a lot of positive things going on in the society that we see reflected in financial contributions. [[The president calls.]] The bad news is that the greater part closes its eyes to some urgent matters, and I again mention the issues of the elderly and the desperate. And if he's shamed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u107	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Kristján Möller Muller for this speech, but I think I'd have chosen, and I think the nation might have had more need to hear it positively in these funding instead of climbing the negative. [[Up front.]] I'd like to start with the beacon. Hv. A senator well knows, should know better than I, since he has more experience in this place, that the sum is due to unexpected expenses. Fiber optics, fiber - optic cableing - I can't see in any way how we can classify optic cables for unexpected expenses. The road and the reason why I didn't speed up that project, the North Coast tunnel. I'm sorry, I couldn't figure it out. I can honestly say that it would probably have been wise, but in this government, it has been emphasized to pay off debts in order to work for the future in order to have more money, more money to finance. I wanted to ask you what. One question asked by a member of the council is whether this noble member of the country agrees. paritaprevir Ólafsdóttir says that the fishing road is not returning one cent to the nation. Does he agree? Maybe I'll answer a question. The senator of the elderly and desperate in my second answer goes over it. But I'd like to ask who. A senator one question before I answer more of him about his return to the nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u108	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Páll Pálsson's son Paul's, a member of the budget board, for coming here to answer me. I knew that I could hurt him in return and hope that more government officials will follow. Hv. A member of the committee discussed national telecommunications and telecommunications, saying that these cannot be classified as unexpected expenses. It may well be that this is the right thing to do and all that, but I'd like to point out one point to that as a matter of course. A senator, who actually speaks against himself in this regard, said: After the highest. A travel minister gave the mad bill about the natural pass and gave it up before it was printed and distributed at the General Assembly, which, fortunately, was a very stupid bill, approved the government in spring and said: The government has approved 850 million. K. a contribution to a tourist fund because the government gave up a way to earning money on tourists we all agree on, we disagree on the way to go. So that's what took place, and I'm suggesting that the government doesn't approve it either. Hv. A senator contributes to the acceptance of 850 million, but the guide remains with his 300 million, with the consequences of what I had been able to do earlier. I named the Senators and I could name a few more societies in my district because this was one of the points at the highest level in the small communities, i.e. The fiber suit. But the 300 million for this is the same amount that the House of Germany has to put in a photoengineering industry, that is all. As I said, according to the plan as the rest of the day. A senator said that if not enlarged, it will take 20 years to do so. I answer this question regarding unexpected expenses: If fiber - optics are not included under unexpected expenses, how can this be done in March?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u109	A respectable president. I'm not going to go justify one other stupid thing. But, hey. A senator stopped answering that one question that I came to. In the case of older ones and poorer ones, I can totally agree that they are not jealous of the benefits they have today. I'm willing to take the discussion that they'll be under the advice of men like the rest of them. But today they increased by one index, 3.5% by the 2014 season, by 3% at the beginning of 2015 and increased by 9.7% by this year, a total of 16.6%. They are not too happy of it, I will agree with it, and I will help make the most of it better. But I want to pump it. Senator on answer. [[Up front.]] I know about the fishing route, I know that in 2014, the fishing route paid less than 25 billion in hunting costs, remuneration and income taxation, the income tax was less than 9 billion. But to come to this chair and say that the fishing road does not return a cent to society, I feel like going on a pretty low level. This government stresses housing. It is setting 2.6 billion in social housing and new housing improvements in a new housing system, 1.1 billion for increased housing support for tenants. [[The president calls.]] So the government meets the less fortunate groups. [[The president calls.]] But I want an answer from what. A senator to see if he agrees that the sea route will deliver 0K. ... tothe community.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u110	V.E.G. President. To answer that question as a question. A senator pointed to me through the seabed about 0K. In the treasure of the world, no, it's not right, it's not true. The seaside road pays a hunting bill, but then I'll read if it's a system change, that men start paying it out from real time one or two months after the countries we've all wanted to have and contribute to, hopefully that's how it works. But our differences can always be about what the fishing fee is to be high, and I remind you of what all classes have agreed on, that the fishing road is to pay a modest bounty charge, the question is how high it is. But, hey. You see, a senator earlier said that he was not going to excuse one other nonsense, and this was the case that I took into account the traveller's labour. 850 million went to the fund under the government's decision in March and is being done here on the motion of the greater part, now one of the nonsense done, instead of finishing it. I've been saying from this place, from the platform, as my proposal and my rank: Let's raise the bedside fee, 100 bucks. A monthly fee is $285 million. So we don't have to go to the top of a hundred thousand. ... andseewhat's rising. And let's say something else: Let's let the locals get their things out of that package, too, because of the expenses they face. At the end of the days of the elderly and of the poor, the voice of my voice is heard to me. A senator actually agrees with the view I've held, and he says he's making adjustments in raising the wages of the elderly and incubating as others have received. That's why I'm asking. A senator like me earlier: Why in the first place is the administrative part of this campaign against the elderly and the poor? What's the matter, that they don't clean up and set things straight like other things being done here? [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. I first spoke of the positive aspects of Iceland's economy that we see among them in this bill. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u111	A respectable president. There's a reason to wish. paritaprevir Kristján Möller is happy to have drawn up at least one member of the board who is willing to support our proposal to dress and groom the elderly, hombre. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson, it's a pleasure. It is an important adjustment proposal that the smaller portion moves on money to raise the pension to the elderly and the desperate from spring, and it is natural for them to fall under the advice of a man like that. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson was in a position to live up to the same rules. The Generals can simply agree on that in their vote, whether it is tomorrow or Monday. But I wanted to ask you why. A senator because he's a long-term traveling minister about one thing I don't understand on the bill. I was going to ask you about the tourist roads I thought the government had agreed to go to last summer, long-term, timely improvements in Uxabals, Cold Valley, Kiss Pass and Fallos Road. I don't know that that that money was taken care of, either in Uxam, or in the Valley of Kalda. The Senator probably knows best about the Northeast standard, and he knows the situation on the Kappos Road, the Key Pass road, I don't think he's ever gone any further. Do these changes provide a technical suggestion for the greater part to cancel the budgets for these projects, or how is this being done?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u112	V.E.G. President. First of all, it's what it's all about. paritaprevir The Helgi Hjörvar talked about, a very interesting statement. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson's son, in answer to me about the interest of older ones and disability, is ready to contribute to the advice of elderly and desperate men, such as the president of Iceland, ministers, judges, members of Congress, and others. It's a remarkable statement, and I'd like to say, too, that I thought it was a very big announcement on Iceland's national radio show last night. paritaprevir Lára Arnardóttir. 6th. Witchest. "Where we were even. talking about this matter of the elderly and the desperate. It was most likely to be understood at the time. A senator would agree that the way I found it was for the elderly and the poor to be paid back, as I thought it would be for them. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson's son. There's two candidates. Her comments on the program may also be heard that she and other candidates feel that the matter is not over, that it is being considered. She basically said, Mr. President, that the case was on the table at the highest. Secretary of finance. Now, it is not possible to ask independents about this because they have not been present for the discussion on these funding proposals, the members of the budget committee, but I raise up and hope that there will be suggestions on this correction, reasonable correction. As for transportation, I'll try to get to it afterwards, but in short, it seems that the governments'proposals for transportation really don't mix a sound picture. It just doesn't fit, and I don't get it together, and I don't get it together, and I don't get it together, and it's like, "What do you do?" [[The president calls.]] I remind you there were going to be construction on the latter part of Kappres Way, but it was all cut down, it was moved to another. [[The president calls.]] At that time, Minister of the Interior, Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, said it would be returned. How was that returned? With money to take a third mile [3 km] chapter, that's all.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u113	A respectable president. I agree with what. Senator. It's gonna be exciting to see if there's gonna be more senators than that. Councilmen Páll Jóhann Pálsson and Elsa Lára Arnardóttir, who votes with our proposal in our smaller section to correct the interest of the elderly and desperate by reimbursement of the budgetary bill. But only on transportation. You see, I was disappointed. I have not given much hope to the government's campaign plans or to keep them from becoming too busy. But the other, I expected, the government's declaration of road construction in spring that should have been carried out for the summer, but when you came to these roads in the fall, nothing had happened. I see no better than that in the text of a large part of the budget board it is being found serious that the internal minister's work on the case has been made up of the decision to place money on this travel route in the government field, requiring that all of this be done through a transport program and through the council. I can't understand it any different than this, so quickly, that more of the legal committee is counting the Minister of the Interior and telling her how these funds have been handled and taken out in these adjustments. I may be confused, but this is at least a very unusual presentation, I must say.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u114	V.E.G. President. Now, for the purpose of transportation questions. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar. Then let me tell you, I haven't been through this particular course recently, like what happened. A senator, who was supposed to donate and finish, so I'm not aware of the situation. On the other hand, I would like to say and repeat what I said in my speech and as a basic point in the financing of transportation, that little of the transport work is being done in recent governments or smaller sections approved there. I gathered earlier that the implementation of the Northern Lands tunnel was issued and signed for a contract so that the existing government, when she learned that the project was not able to cut down its plans and appeared in the text of the utilities then, was started. But then budgets do not play together by means of a transport plan. A contingency plan is a interpretation of the council's will for how it should be done. The budget is to ensure its construction and capital flow, and it has not been made up of sound and image because it is all subsidized. By the middle of a summer in a northern tunnel, the contractor had basically received all the money he could receive this year, and he began to take off projects and slow them down and lend money to Kingdom Halls. This is now all transport projects at the highest level. Government. This method of kissing off the decisions of some small-way rat being carried out and approved, and I'm not talking about if construction is not that hard - you don't fully understand what it's done for. [[The president calls.]] But it shall be said once again that in the past government and its sponsors are promoting the smallest transport projects that have been in the past ten years.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u115	Madam President. I would like to discuss a few smaller subjects and a few larger subjects, and I'd like to start with those who may be called smaller but still raise questions about how we think of money. Now that it is, and it certainly shows up in the Commission's section to make sure that there are two issues of interest that might be questioned, and I agree that it can be questioned. It's about Telenor, a case I know well from the past when I was serving as minister of education and culture. At that time, Telenor is also a satellite service that has been responsible for bringing national television programs to towns in the remotest parts of the country and other areas of the country. I'm going to say that, of course, at my time, these matters should have been taken care of for a long time, but I am able to defend them that they were going to change the Kingdom News system that has been discussed in other matters. So this arrangement was to be replaced by a distribution system. But now, three years later, the arrangement is still in effect, the Telenor sphere is blessed, and it is still being financed on budgets that, of course, are not a good work force. I think it's very important that the doubts in the Committee's list of events are followed and that some work will be started in order for these matters to be established as a future destination. We can say that regardless of political parties and more objects, it appears that there is always a political willingness to maintain these satellite broadcasts, it is very important to find some future arrangement so that we are not getting the case on our table year after year. I could talk for a long time about Telenor, but I'm not gonna do it, I just wanted to mention this as an example of one of the strange little things that come on our table and don't belong in the budgets, they belong in long-term financing. Of course, the other matter mentioned by a greater proportion of the legal committee is the music schools. It's my concern that even though we've been discussing this matter last spring, i.e. The agreement between state and rural society on the funding of music education, which is of utmost importance to us, is now December 2015, and we have not yet seen a music education bill. We have not yet seen the future in these matters. They're making money on this, and I'm gonna support them, but I'm worried that there's no future arrangements. True, we received specific information on what we had during the spring discussion, but it's been months since, and we've got funding. What I'm afraid of is that it will also be in the budget next time, and there will also be no future arrangements for them. This should serve as a reminder to all of us, but especially to those who make more part of each time to set a case like this in an organized way from the start of the year, so that we do not always stand at the end of the year with such strange cases that we know is a political desire to find long - term solutions, but do all the time dolls in the form of some jack in the payments and remind us that they are unsolved. This need not be an unsolved case. These were perhaps the smaller ones I mentioned at the outset, since I allow myself to agree with the greater part and believe that there is some doubt that there is an understatement. I'm on the side of these budgets, but I think it's totally unacceptable that things are still unsolved. That's when we come to bigger opinions. First, I'd like to mention the arrangement of earning money for the tourism in the country that I made as a subject of my previous conversation in response to what I had already heard. paritaprevir Páll Árnason. I would like to agree with what is stated in the panel of my section, which describes how badly the government has been able to plan budgets for financial tourism, especially in view of the fact that we have received a presentation from the Supreme Court. Industrial Minister that tourism policies have now been mastered by forming a so-called travel control center. She has been hired by the director for a good salary, yet there seems to be an absolute loss of control when it comes to this category. I must be surprised that at the end of the last council, the inherited matter, nature pass, was of the species that now does not seem to have no spokesmen except the highest rank. Minister who spoke for the case. Although this was never over, it was said that it was important to consider other ways to strengthen the income markets of tourism. Then it flowed into the sand, and instead it is being replaced by establishing a new government agency, the management center of tourism, which is to be maintained on long-term policy measures, as some other networks are supposed to do. In the meantime, it is not a matter of raising, for example, the cost of stay. In fact, it seems to be someone around here that the stay fee is a thorn in the eyes of someone, perhaps because it was put on in the last government. The Gistint account in Iceland is, of course, very low, that's a hundred bucks. Nowhere where I've been staying and staying in traditional boarding rooms or hotels, I'll pay you less of the checkout fee than in here. For example, it would be easy to double it and, as I mentioned earlier in my conversation with the dog. paritaprevir Árni ago, Páll the Árnason of Aarna, divides his income from one state to another. It is also thought - provoking in all the interest we have here on budgets, on the grounds of budgets, and on the other hand, there has obviously been no gain in revising the business institutions of the state and rural society. We see that rural society is failing to do so. It's not an easy solution. There is no obvious way when we look at income institutions, but one of the areas mentioned is that the income of the tourism service, which has become our largest export, is not making enough money for the rural community. To raise the cost of a bed, as I mentioned, and to divide it would be e.g. One way not to get an enormous amount of money, but the cost of a stay is 300 million, combined. K. By doing so, we would immediately be starting some way to strengthen our communities, but we would also be able to get some reconciliation from tourism or income around tourism. This is bound to be the case when we have funding where a donation to a tourist position, to a position owned or supervised by the State, is expected to increase to 850 million. K. which, of course, is no small amount. Then we add 12.2 billion. K. ... ina change of motion with a 2nd. due to higher income from host tax. The minority pointed to these financial needs in discussions about budgeting in 2015, and the exact same thing happened with a discussion about the budget bill before 2014. If we examine the purpose of a budget that is to deal with inevitable issues, especially unforeseen incidents, e.g. the impact of new agreements or new legislation, it is very strange that this should be called unforeseen. I would have thought that the greater part could have taken it with the issues he doubts he would be living under financial aid in view of the fact that there is a need for financial support, there is a need to plan ahead, of course, and there is no time to wait for the management department to take over these matters. I agree with what was said earlier that perhaps it would be more advisable for the Council to take this matter into its own hands and make certain changes to increase our income from tourism, and for us to be more aware of the facts, as it is also impossible to offer the largest export of the country's budget to the uncertainty that these funds are being given through means of money, not to estimate them in the budgets of each year. It's a uncertainty that's not available for long periods of time for tourism, and of course it and all of us, all of us here. Councilmen, require long-term exposure and planning. I really don't understand that the government and the greater part chose not to listen when the minority pointed to this for both the 2014 budget and the 2015 budget. It's kind of unacceptable hearing loss. It's the fourth thing I'd like to mention, and a lot of them. Councilmen have made it possible that the talk material on the bill for funding is suggestions on child reforms discussed in the members of the minority section. This has been pointed out and associated with the budget that the development of the child - making system appears to be on top of the highest scale. Governments that they should merely be thought of for the most lucrative groups, that they should not be used by people in society, parents in general. The minority points out that this should have taken a revised policy in the year so that the state funds could have improved the survival of those who are least allowed in accordance with the sum agreed by the Council on the project, not dropping the funds and returning them to the state's budget. What I find interesting about this is that this is over, as it seems to be, to make a policy decision, a political policy-making decision on how we bring up our child reforming systems without a special discussion at the General Assembly, without our having agreed on any policies that would compromise or change the law, but it's done through the budget. That's why I have become increasingly distracted by this group of issues, as well as other issues. I can give you another example in the budget bill itself that attracts the privatization and harmony of the high school in Hafnarfnarfjörður under Technologies School of Technology. It is making political policy decisions, and it is done through budgets and funds. That was also the case when we last discussed changing funds for high school, allowing restrictions on older students'access to high school, for example. We have also seen such decisions about the cost of patient participation. I feel that it is all too much for the government and the more part to run through very controversial cases, political debatable issues that have profound changes and an impact on the benefits and interests of many people, through the financial soup that are later elected over several hours in a Senate hall, where everything runs into one grin and there is no way of realizing anything. The country's public often sees the consequences of the decisions made in financial matters weeks and months after decisions have been made. And we who work in my part at the General Assembly are so critical of trying to keep up with the budget, on budgets. We have been criticized for the fact that in recent years we are talking too much about these bills, but the fact is that through them, there are all kinds of political policies that have not been discussed in any other way. This is what I feel is that we who work at the council should really discuss. While this is not changed, of course, we will continue to discuss these matters, and I could believe that a discussion about them would only be extended if it is that way, if we can use the foreign word that the government groups want to use to implement their policies instead of doing it in another way. I admit, of course, sometimes it doesn't take legal adjustments to do things like this, but there are often a number of laws being changed on the other hand on the basis of the budget and on the other hand, so ministers can take the initiative to discuss various political policy issues without following legal adjustments if they affect the public's interests, as we see, for example. with the changes in the child-replacement system. I think it is reasonable on the part of the council to have a careful overview of how these matters are conducted in other parts of the north, the child - welfare arrangement, for example, so that we can compare where we want to go with our system, and what other nations have done to their own systems, and whether we believe that it is acceptable to evolution. I feel that we would need time to take it, and I think it is only natural for us to request such data in this discussion so that the Icelandic child - reform system can be compared with the changes it has made in the past decade and how they come together with changes in other countries. We have talked about moving from the country, which is not agreed on as to whether it is a fact or not, and it should be in our best interests to know how the country has been equipped with family members to answer for whether it will affect moving from the country. Madam President. Time is fast in big cases, and I'm going to use the last few minutes to discuss the changes in the memory of the dierent and older population, which, of course, I strongly support, and I hope you will. The members of the greater part will examine themselves with an open mind. Hv. More recently, members of the body have pointed out that these groups are certainly getting some promotions, saying that they are higher than they have been in the past few years, and that's fine. But we must not forget that a percentage increase doesn't tell the whole story. The monthly allowance for micromasks, which live alone, is 187,507 k. according to a recent opinion made by the Microcollar Community to get economists to work for them and make progress in 2014. If you live with another person aged 18 or older, you will have a monthly allowance of 172. K. If we take a group of older citizens, it's in response from the highest level. Social and housing minister for query from what? A U.S. deputy member, Indriðadóttir Indiadóttir, says that 70% of senior citizens earn less than 300 of you. K. which is the minimum wage the labor force has been fighting for at work. As we evaluate how it costs to exist, and in this same opinion, it is said that a childless person who lives alone in his own house - and we remember that he gets 187,507 bucks. - That's $348,537k. To live, to exist. This is about provision income, and for taxes it would be eliminated as 482,846 k. I think it must be a matter of thought for us senators, no matter what group we belong to, whether this is acceptable to people who cannot choose their lot because they choose not to become invalid, they choose no one to become an older citizen. Of course, although we all wish to grow old, we do not choose that destiny either. That must be a thought for what happened. Councilmen, regardless of their rank, that these are ideals for these groups. And while their income increases from what it is today, it does not change that these are ignominiously low numbers. There's no handle on these terms. It is not surprising that in a poll presented as soon as this point was found, more than 90% of respondents said that they did not trust themselves to survive the 172s. K. per month. That's what I would have said if I had been asked. And it should be our ambition to improve their terms, and that's why I agree with the smaller parts, which merely puts the change in terms that the poor and older citizens will receive terms that are at least comparable to the terms they are terms for which they are, in fact, the lowest terms in society and the compensations will be restored, as expected on the public market. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] These groups have not chosen their lot, and it should be our pleasure to live with them reasonably.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u116	President. I think that's what. A senator came on a significant point when she mentioned it, and we look up increasingly to the fact that there are very important financial decisions made in many matters, e.g. Like in education. This may be especially the case since we've seen it recently, but in other cases too, where financial decisions are being made. Hence, it must be normal for us to be long spoken of as money, and we may need to study the budget much better than has been done so far. It may be said that this is the government's fault in this regard so that, in the past, there were laws that provide great authority to counselers and governments. This is true in education and health care. I'm afraid we'll see almost some horror there if I may say so. But I would like to ask. I believe the 60 million members of the budget who are going to study music should solve the problem that has been in Reykjavík and we talked a lot about in spring and early winter, that should solve it. Is it not true, then, that in order for these problems not to come up again, we now need a minister's bill on how to arrange them in the future? The senator has more ideas about this than I do if such a bill is on its way and when can we expect to see it in the Senate Hall? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u117	Madam President. So I'll take the first part of the second side of the question. paritaprevir Well, Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir, it's a further project planned on the bill, that's the same thing we talked about in spring, and it's about the collection problem of several music schools in Reykjavík. That's when we were. A senator, I believe, both in this discussion and in the highest. The minister came and announced that the bill was under construction. It's at the U.S. Senate. Minister, but we still haven't seen that bill. My fear is that in view of the complexity and complexity of the relationship, unfortunately, relationships that have been too complex appear to be in fact between state and group members, I fear that this case will not be over, perhaps primarily from the story, because that bill has been developed for a long time. It's been on the Constitution for quite a while, and then, of course, it's totally unacceptable if we're looking at this case again next year on the same uncertainty, it just doesn't work out, and it doesn't work for the music schools that such uncertainty continues, but I have no further news of it. This is my fear, but I hope, of course, that the bill comes out and it will be good and it can be settled so that we can finish it in our own time. For the other thing, about the policy-makers through the budget and what. A senator also mentioned health matters, so I think that in some way it is true that the legal procedures that have been practiced in which ministers have very rich sources of authority. For example, we now have an example in the legal process of public finance, which is talking about outdoors that were supposed to be up to 25% of the budgets without the approval of the Ministers at any given time, but has been suggested to reduce it to 15%. However, that is much if we, for example, take large institutions, Land Hospital, Iceland's University, where political decisions are actually out of the hands of the General for legal purposes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u118	A respectable president. This is of great concern because, like everything else, there is a need to maintain a balanced, balanced view of the matter. I'm of the opinion that the council shouldn't mention much of some cocky shit, if you don't mind me saying so. But there can be a difference between giving this organization 3 million or 2 million or the other organization, or referring to the Ministry of Date-making Decisions, and we really need to be on guard. Now, I'd like to ask, this may be a little silly, because we're looking up at it in these budgets that now the Senate has decided to pay hundreds of millions more, I think there are about 200 million on child support and something like or more on interest, which the state may now be taking over because some calculator makes it necessary that we don't have to pay the compensation to the members of the council who have been previously decided to receive it. I would like to ask the senator: "How does she feel about such measures? Also, the 60 million who are going to attend the music schools may be asked. If I remember correctly, it was the highest. A minister of education, such as not so eager, would not give up on whether he was going to fulfill what was called an agreement, and he said that there was no agreement. Is it not clear, though, that if the 60 million will be approved at the council, then the minister will not be able to ignore their paying for the music schools? Is it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u119	Madam President. As for my child's settlements, I agree with a smaller section of the budget committee, which points out that some of the contributions made for child reforms are restored. It actually shows in my opinion that the parts were too severe, and I agree with the interpretation. It's changing the child - welfare system, linking with what we were discussing, that, really, the child - reforming system is being changed through financial decisions and financial reforms. This shows that the government is more concerned with ensuring that child reform is based solely on all the most lucrative groups than on making use of the contribution the Icelandic Council had planned for child reform and increased the limit of the decline, because this is not a question of economic necessity; this is a matter of political choice and political decision made in this way. The money exists, but it is not to be used for children's families. They are to be taken back into the state funds because it is the political choice of the current government that child damage should be reserved for all the most commercial groups and they will start to interfere with a very low income. It's a discussion I think society may be beginning to realize. I don't know how many I've met who are my age, people who's still with children who say, "How is it that I don't get pediatrics anymore and how on earth it's decided? When I explain that it's done through budgets, in the three-hour votes under which it is large and small, people will, of course, ask: What kind of political debate is taking place in the country, what kind of political policies after all we've said about changing the practice, professional management, and I don't know what? The music school then makes it very clear that it is conditional that it runs only to those who have collected debt from a service level above the branch Fund. [[The president calls.]] So these funds should be properly used, and a new set of music education laws need to be introduced.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u120	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a nice speech. I'd like to ask her about what she said about the role of a budget. I think we agree, and I think everybody agrees, both in my part and in more parts, that we want to make use of the budget, as the law expects. But it seems that it is tempting to add, no matter who is involved. The budget is always loaded into all kinds of joints that do not belong. In fact, there was very little money after a crash, and it might have been some way because there was just no money, but maybe it was just a stronger economy, I don't know what to say. Now we will introduce new laws on public financial matters, which will have to be settled by means of budgets. They are not expected. There'll be just a reserve for anything that's unpredictable, like volcanic eruptions and other things, but there's going to be 2% room for stewards and conferences. Because of what? A senator has been asked if he believes that it could be that the 2% that the minister has before the seminar, such as if high school were one group, are really sufficient to respond to what may be presented. It's a challenge, it's a whole new business, but we want to move from having financial funds. We may always have to accept unexpected financial privileges, but can we imagine a future in which financial contributions will be a thing of the past because ministers can control this reserve they have, that they will somehow be able to direct it back and forth?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u121	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for these speculations and in some respects I agree that it is important that the Ministers have made room within their Ministry to promote political policies and other matters that need to be discussed at the council. I am deeply concerned about what was planned on the bill to legalize public finances. At the same time, I understand that it is important that this space exists, but I worry that the trend will be that the political debate is not taking place in the field of the council. I know that certain changes are expected so that the council does not have financial restraint, but I have a lot of concern, considering the Senate's equipment, in view of the individual department, where the council is now not being overcrowded by the Ministry, that there is going to be a crisis in providing what we can call normal maintenance, on the other hand, about how money is spent, and on the other hand, to have political discussions, because it's politics in what it is about how money is. 2% of the box -- we can take the Ministry for example cultural, 10 billion financial support and most of it at all bound and 2% of it, what is it? That's 200 million, right? These may not be huge amounts of money, so I think that experience will show us how this rule will work. I believe that there may be a very normal view that ministers have this amount of space, but what is expected of us to make sure that the Council has access to specialists in different fields in order to strengthen themselves in caring for this vital role. I feel that we are way too far off that after the decision has been made, almost after all the decisions have been made and presented, the council has no real opportunity to participate in its own policy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u122	A respectable president. I'll take the case from here. Senator. It's going to be a real challenge to introduce and do these laws properly, and I think it's very important that the professional committees I'm calling here at the council are having a lot more to do with the budget than they do today. I'd like to ask about the travel-offs fund that come over and over into the budget, but maybe not next year because a considerable amount of money has been placed on the 2016 budget. But it was quite possible that this would come in this year because only about 150 million were put on budgets, and we all protested that. Then it has entered spring into a meeting of the budget committee, reporting a great rise in the fund and on the roadside, and in the committee's list of parts, it is said, I do not remember exactly how it is said, that it is a respectable or good thing to have the Minister come to the meeting and introduce it to you. To me it doesn't matter because it's just as bad at the financial law, whether it's a minister or not, but maybe it's polite. What do you think? A senator about this? Although ministers came to the legal committee with all the misunderstandings, this could in no way justify the decision. But that's the way the committee saw the greater part, and it caught my attention, as if in some way it were justified. It's going to be exciting to see if the majority of the shares vote with this team, the tourism fund, because he really doesn't live there. Of course, we are in a position to find that the money has already been spent. So we're against a wall. It's always that way with the budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u123	Madam President. Of course, it's good if the ministers and the executives have good relations with the council. That's the best thing to do in any situation. But this does not change the fact that we must insist that, in general, money is spent in a transparent way. This means there are plans that are based on some strategy. I'd like to mention in the context of a multi-developed transport program that has not yet been established, and no one really knows what to look like. I'm telling you, under the circumstances, she's getting pretty sad. This is the policy to be employed by the transport council, subject to certain legal procedures that we have agreed to be the process we are using to decide to exchange funds for roads. This plan does not exist, and you can ask yourself: " What can the council do? We've come up here to ask the highest. Minister, where's the plan? Yeah, the plan's on its way. But this puts the council in a very difficult position. Then I want to say it because of what. A senator mentioned the introduction of public funds that I understand that the Ministry is being looked forward to some funding for the introduction of this new legal environment. However, at the General Assembly, do they sit down on that subject? What funding will help the General introduce this new legal environment? How will these committees be supported? Will they install an e-mail office at the council? We will not be able to do what is assigned to us. I think this is also sometimes when we're discussing the budget, the suggestions are very often caused by the executives, and then the general council comes into this process and they have their look at the suggestions, but the actual frames, the basis of the enterprise itself. With this new legislation, we are actually strengthening the European Commission, but I fear that we are not considering that the role of the Council will be supported in the same way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u124	A respectable president. I start off with the last exchange of words from the platform, which followed later on on on the program at this meeting or the next, about the bill for public finance and the changes that will be made in the handling of the state's budgets during the council. This will be exciting, since we can truly make progress in the financial process both in the affairs of the government and in the council. I agree that it is very important to strengthen the independence of that work, for it has, in a far too large way, been stamped for the decisions made by the government and has had relatively little independent support for the project. The important things include an economic office of some kind. Of course, it can be located in the council that evaluates these factors. The other must also be close to the discussion, whether there is any reason to restore national interests so that members of the community, as well as members of the community, have access to an independent field service that allows for the development of economics and that they can work on reporting, plans, evaluation of government plans, and give objective but well established opinions. That's all over the future. What's a pleasure to see this budget bill is that it's growing. However, it is growing for the wrong reasons. In fact, it is a monopoly to increase because of the income gate. Sadly, it is still a significant expansion from what was expected. It is not a mastery in the business that produces this increased equation but, rather, a number of interpolational benefits. Perhaps there is good reason to consider better how various aspects of the budget are estimated in the pursuit of the budget year. For example, the figures we see in this budget are certainly not well estimated from the figures we see in this additional bill. It is a great challenge to meet this challenge after making a good plan. How sad we are that we see the same team in that regard year after year! Another factor, which is truly reason to call for a better budget than has been planned and is, in fact, just taking over and over on the budgets, being carried out at tourist locations that are extremely important, but they are quite predictable and full reason for their plans and contributions to be clear and determined in budgets and on the basis of professional schemes and, of course, of course, to accept the revenues involved in their implementation. We've actually put too little on these projects. This has not been the least of the problems that have occurred at the government headquarters on the income initiatives in this subject. It was earlier mentioned in the discussion the simple suggestion at which we had been living. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller would raise his bedside fee to cover the costs. How simple it is to raise existing income stocks and full reason to allow the large number of tourists who are now returning to the land to pay later than immediately for needed structure! It is a habit that this is on the move repeatedly for financial aid. This is simply to be planned and predetermined. These are not unforeseen expenses in any way. The linking tourist status is a reason to mention peculiar donations for road transport. Perhaps there is reason to call on the chairman of the budgetary committee, the chairman of the House of Booths, or anyone else who knows how to explain what is going on there. It was so, I suppose, that in the springtime, the government announced the urgent and urgent expenses that would be involved in some of the tourist roads that would not surprise anyone. There were roads that were long before the work was worked out. It is the road through the Continental Passage, it is the road through Uxabourn, which makes it easier to travel much easier between the Þingvavals and the urban population, and thus actually Southland and city soil, and then the road through the Cold Valley, which opens up the possibility for a new tourist circle to cross the plain and back through the valley of Calda, and finally, the Huunteway, if I remember it correctly. The projects that were to take place on those four roads in summer were worth another billion dollars. I'm not quite aware of what's being presented here for the changes in the budget that the government has announced this summer. I'm at least aware that some of these projects simply didn't come out, like the way across the Uxabal and I'm also holding Kaldadal, and maybe also about the Key Pass and Fallos Road. This is sad because tourists seem to grow more in the next year than they expected. Therefore, it is urgent to build up these infrastructures. You ask yourself: " What caused the government not to attack what the government felt was the monarchy to go to last spring and to do this summer? I also want to ask about the text from a greater portion of the budget board when contributions to Vega seem to be being made, but the government has not provided much new work on the road. How is this to be understood when these projects, such as others, are to be used in traditional procedures and traditional foods? Is it more than just a part of the budget to say that the government has given much thought, it was premature to make those decisions? Did any of these activities ever cease to be carried out? Why was that? Are they telling the Minister of the Interior that such transportation needs to be done on a transport plan and through work on the Council Transport Committee before they can be considered for financial support? Or how does this take place? I'm sorry, I haven't been able to go into the follow-up with this huge bill in order to understand enough of this and to appreciate it if any representative of the more part of the budget trusts to explain what the situation is on these important roads for tourism and how this decision-making is conducted and whether there is any conflict within the management team to determine whether it should be carried out or how it works. Of course, visitors arranged for these transport improvements and assumed that they would come in and have to change their plans if they had not been fully serious when they announced that these roads would be crushed. This is important for those who have an interest in getting that information right away. A respectable president. Then I'd like to take a few steps to learn what we both see in child development and growth. I'm sorry that people don't make the extent to which they are going on, after the maintenance procedures that took place during the last term, and by the end of the payoffs, to improve the interests of homes and family members. In this regard both income and possessions are being maintained in my opinion too rigid, so people with relatively insignificant income, at least not high income, are falling out of the child - repair system all too quickly. There is good reason not to take these funds down, but to use the money that had been set aside for these matters to bring about a larger group than the one that is now. In particular, the growing team is just shrinking, so one hand is taking what is left with the other. I think they'll drop between the budget year and the next year by $1,100 million. K. or 1.1 billion, a large part of the government's budget, is now being proclaimed to the other hand that it will be placed in a house - to - house matter. What a thrill it is to get money from that stream! The 2nd. I want the budget first, and lastly, I want to review what leads to social security. We've been watching for a year that many years of building the country, especially in the time of the Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, has brought us an important economic advantage. Work on a number of economic projects that were then agreed on has been initiated, and there are still some practical projects that were then determined and the economic growth that have been uninterrupted since the early election period is due for the financial resources that improve year after year. Unfortunately, the government's affairs, especially on the income side, are less careful now during this terms. Fortunately, in large groups of countries, the majority of groups in general market reformed and even earlier, as in the case of the Generals and Ministers, who receive compensation for all the way back to March 1, I think I will be correct. When this is the country's salary development, you would think that older people and poorer ones, those groups living in the lowest market in the country, would not be left behind, that they would have no less elevations than people with much better income and much better advice but would have at least the same percentages at the same time. What a disappointment that was in those days when the highest power could not be understood! THE prime minister's willingness to raise the interest of the local government and the administrative part of the government was different from that of the time men had decided to raise the wages of the Generals and Ministers. It is so shouting unreasonable, that I say no speciality, that, of course, the rest of this ultimatum, and the financial and financial work, shall surely be objected to. We will strive to count as many executives on our side in making the change that these groups receive from the same time as other people in the country. It must be in the mind of each individual's own self - righteousness and reasonableness. The cost of doing so certainly is quite a few. It's about 6.6 billion bucks. when all is accounted for. It must be kept in mind that this is tens of thousands of Icelanders, their means of living, and certainly remembered such funds would come from financial resources, from subsidies, and from other sources, so as not to be costless. It is relatively possible to point out some of the easy way to earn money if you do not want to reduce the rest in the current year, which would truly be an option. For example, one is extending the wealth tax. It would even be enough to extend the wealth tax twice as low as it was when that government began. Which is known to be paid $5. The richest homes in the country, of 125 you. Homes in the country, this special tax to help with difficult times in financial affairs. It does not in itself contradict the fact that this is continued while we are in currency and further if only half of the tax was taken during the last term. To reduce taxes to this group seems to be a great priority to the government. I have to say, a respectable president, that I don't think it's time to turn the taxes on the richest people of the country so much if they can't afford to correct the wages of the elderly and the desperate from the same time as others. It must come first. How much better it must be for the older ones and the poor to increase at the same time as for the rest of the country to reduce taxes to 5 of you! The richest homes in this country are completely eliminated. But if you don't want to, there are, of course, some pillars in the management team that greatly reduce their taxes by disappearing from the wealth tax - the biggest problem of pointing out the fishing costs and resulting in resource expenditures in a wider context is if you wish to. It has been overemphasized to spare the large production, resulting in a crushing profit from the exclusive right of the use of a common resource. It would be easy to finance the selfish issue of justice, to increase the care of the elderly, and the disability of the elderly from the same time as in other groups, by raising resource costs. I have to say, after the declarations made by men in favor of elections for these groups and in what way they should be in the first place, I believe that I believe that, after revising this aspect in the policy of government, men listen to a request for equality and fairness, which comes from older citizens all over the country and from microbubbles, who agree to the simple advantage that they receive a raise from the same time as the rest.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u125	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar before the talk. I'd like to start by asking who. A senator about what he concluded his speech on, where he wondered how it could be financed if we wanted to continue to make as much money as we do today but also improve the interests of elderly ones and poor people back in time, mentioning him in this regard as far as the fishing fees are concerned. The fishing costs have now been paid, including one. in the recent losses of large productions, after the cost of fishing, paid off enormous sums of money. This morning's discussion started to scare me. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, Chairman of what? The financier said that the government fund was paying taxes on the interest paid by the developers. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he agrees with me in that it actually exposes a vision. More than a part of the Allegorium and the toast theory simply reaches new heights, where government funds can be attributed to the income that buys large companies, but unfortunately, the bread crumbs do not cover the benefits of those who are housed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u126	A respectable president. I think it may be true that here again it is taken to celebrate the bread crumbs theory as, in particular, the Independence Party and Hólmsteinn Gissurarson Grisurson and other members from the spectrum of politics spoke before a collapse, but it appears to have become a sort of dogma of the forward movement of the latter century, at least Her officers, like prime minister and boy. The chairman of the budget board, which group has moved very far to the right as we know it. The cost of fishing is obvious in this regard. Of course, a fishing industry is supposed to be profiteable, and it should be good to work and invest, but that article yields profits far beyond other articles because it is of value in itself to have the exclusive right to use our common resource. That would be a problem if we do not have money to raise the wages of older ones and disability from the same time that others in our country paid a little more. Even though she was paid for it, she would still be driven by a lot of baloney profits and was still being driven more profit than usual in other articles. In fact, I believe that the best chance that fishing costs would simply be at the market, where workers would turn in their sources and thus in free trade at the auction would be to determine what would be normal for them to return to a common fund at any given time. But priorities must be that elderly and poorer ones are raised from the same time as others in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u127	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Yes, I have to admit, I've been surprised to see what I've seen the advance party seem to be far to the right, at least Some whiskers. Councilmen of that party. Other members of the council may have tried, at least in time, to maintain a cooperative attitude. I couldn't agree more. A senator says that it is extremely urgent that the interest of older citizens and disability be improved, and in time, especially now that we have a table for a meal. When should we do so if not now when there is room in the financial affairs? Hv. A senator rightly pointed out from this platform some years ago that we are the ones here, with the senators, who are desperate men. Clearly, that discussion has been taken a little further, for I heard it coming. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson seemed in the past discussing whether social security benefits should even be determined by a dresser's council. I'd like to ask you what. A senator of what advantages he would see in this and what dangers might be involved in moving him to determine the ideal microloom from democratic elected representatives at the Council and to the Council of Cathedral.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u128	A respectable president. Thank you. Senator. Raise when a table is served, says the senator. Of course, this is a requirement, but it is worth noting that in 2011 when a table was not served in Jóhanna's reign Sigurðardóttir, these groups were paid up in the middle of a year from the same time as other groups in a much more difficult financial situation than they are now. Hence, it is surprising that governments do not see their own worth in doing this right now. A word of it. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann, the son of Pálsson, that he was probably hiding this advice, would it not be far better to hide the wages of the elderly and the desperate advice of a gentleman than the government of Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaug's Gunnlaugsson? That's why I would be quite willing to support that as long as that government is in power, the Council of Peace would be commissioned to determine this. However, I believe that the best thing to do is for the generals to decide on the budget of a budget to be paid here in the hall what is the minimum wage of the elderly and the desperate in the country. We have an example in neighboring lands. There are tens of thousands of individuals whose advancement is largely dependent on the political decisions made here. I think people simply need the strength to make these decisions here in the hall and to stick to them and answer them. This requires that a decision be clear and unambiguous and obvious to each individual.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u129	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I'd like to ask about the tourist enterprise, that's always the story. Hv. A senator was in the Senate during his last term, so he knows the beginning of the project fund, how he was set up to cope with the increase in tourism and the need to build up infrastructure for tourism. I think we should have started decades earlier, or even decades earlier, because we've basically been running behind on these issues. Now it's time for us to take on a third-time budget of considerable sums of money into construction funds. You wonder, " Is a minister who cannot handle a single tourist's small budget at the head of the project? ' I just have to say, it's amazing. The toy that was supposed to be, the pass of nature, did not pass, and what we now have is the cost of hostilities. A senator came in exactly. The Gistint account is 100 k. every night. It is in many countries, but I've heard a lot of criticism of this tax and how to distribute the host's fee to the countryside, whether the communities that receive the innable fees, have most of the hotels, get the host's fee or how it should be, it's a bit complicated. I don't sell it any more than I bought, but I have also heard that it is relatively easy to avoid this tax. I can't figure out if the money we see in budgets match the number of accommodations in the country. What are some ideas? A senator about how we finance a tourist position, whether to do so from government funds and credit taxes left by tourists? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u130	A respectable president. That's right. A senator's account for the amount of money spent on the government fund for the tourism market is, in fact, the account for the natural passout because, at all times past the terms of the election season, it has not been possible to paint a more decent image on the expense of tourists. The first government planned for an increase in values tax, which would have been the simplest and best step, for it is important to the general state's income level in general that there are relatively few but large income stocks that return the income and worthy tax is, of course, the most efficient tool to deliver money, simple and good equipment. The problem with the host tax was always how low it is. He's only 100 bucks. Paying a small amount of money to the state, running to hundreds of millions, and in the context of state funds, it's a small amount of money. In fact, to talk about a person, instead of providing billions of plants, it needs to be returned. But if you don't want to go on the merit tax scale, that way is to raise the host tax, and it can be done in stages if it is to help the article produce such changes. I would have thought, though, that he could be raised considerably from what is now relatively short - range. The Gistintre tax is collected around the world, and it is relatively good to monitor and collect, but I don't know what a good idea it is to share it with rural society. I think it's best that the income is on one hand, although the rural communities could benefit from it in form.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u131	A respectable president. It has been so that the cost of stay has slipped into the tourist market budget, and since then, after some procedures, the need has been determined where the need is most urgent. At the same time, we hear a board of budgets for increased tax revenues in rural areas, and there is a demand for larger towns to get the share at the host's expense rather than just to reach the countryside, since the cost is paid by tourists. On the other hand, in my rural society, where tourists actually leave behind very little, the appeal is very common. I see why. In effect, he finds it beneficial to make money into a tourist market fund and to be distributed from there. Then I'd like to ask about the change in the memory of the object. A senator spoke earlier, even believing that in the greater part, they had indicated that they had agreed with her. We see that there is a waste of income for the year, so these increases can be financed. That's what I'm talking about. A convincing senator is that we will be able to turn enough members of the council to achieve this important compensation for the pensioner and pensioner?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u132	A respectable president. Like what? A senator knows them is the man standing here in Reykjavík, who has considered himself to be a prominent member of the city of Reykjavík, a former city councilman, and who has often thought that the city's use of smoke could have more share in the decisions made here. I have to say, though, that during my stay, I don't think it's fair that it goes to the locals. It is certainly true that the majority of hotels are in Reykjavík, and most of the revenues run to the city, but tourists travel to the Westland or to the South, and they return in the evening, and the tourist attractions need to be carried out. I don't think that there is necessarily such a good correlation between hotel rooms in rural areas and the number of tourist tourist attractions in them. I think the arrangement to make the fee run into a central fund and then to strengthen the project is simply a better arrangement than to let the rural population have the income. As for the other thing, whether I am hoping that the wages of the elderly and the desperate will rise from the same time as others, this morning the genuine disillusionment of the prime minister of Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson was overwhelming. But I want to believe that it's such a self-convinced fairness, and I've heard some language going on. The delegates of Páll Pálsson's son James and Lára Arnardóttir who seem to suggest that they will support our proposal for such changes, and I want to believe in the longest law that we will get more part of the council on this matter of justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u133	A respectable president. These are the first budgets and the first budget I'm involved in. The first thing that interests me when I read the committee literature, especially from the smaller parts, is that they point out that there are some suggestions in the bill for a budget that may not be at home in budgets. In this case, the expenditures provided, and according to the 1997 State budget, all predictable financial arrangements should be made in the budget. In terms of financial contributions, there must be a search for sources of resources that could not be provided in the financial budget. There are several points to which the lesser part points out, e.g. Action at tourist attractions and special prosecutors, which are especially known fees. It might be normal to see it in financial terms rather than in financial contributions. So I'll continue with the good discussion that was here for tourists, especially in the projects at tourist attractions, it's taken way too long to get somebody mad at it. It's not like there's something new, so it's seen that we're with tourists, it's been a growing stream of tourists from 2006/007. We're just a long way behind when it comes to making an arrangement for this. It is as if we always have to come up with the bike again, as shown by the natural rights. We were trying to invent our bike instead of using practical and practical methods that have actually been in Europe and elsewhere. One of them is the balance of the night. They have been criticized for being too low. I kind of agree with that. 100K. is only about 0.70 euros or 50 British pens. It is quite interesting to see that instead of having that $100 bar, it is not a percentage connection to the host's annual fee. 100K. Icelandic is very low. Then there is another factor to consider, that to create a new income stock that would run into the rural society could divide the host tax into two, on the other hand, a so-called social tax, by the president's permission, or a tax that would be paid once upon arrival in a hotel, and on the other hand, a lodge tax that would flow into a state fund. This would help to meet the extra costs of towns and cities, for example, by increasing waste management and other factors, which seem to be the problem. At the same time, the cost of stay could be more in order to take a tourist position and make footpaths and so forth. So I'm only happy to see 60 million as a result of the cumulative problems of several music schools in Reykjavík, that they are trying to strengthen or support the fine music program that Iceland has made over the decades. Icelandic music is played in many parts of the world, and today it is gone. There is much to do, since music studies seem relatively accessible in Iceland compared with other parts of the world. 60 million people, however, are not enough to meet up with a problem. We need to do better. In some way, the issue between local members and the State needs to be resolved who should care for each one. It's about trying to work together, finding a solution. This financial problem is not acceptable, since it is probably one of our major exports and the best marketing available to Iceland, that is, the Icelandic music. We need to give future generations the same chance as the previous ones, so I'm just gonna name Björk and the ones in Of Sisters and Men. These are probably our best advertising. They are all people who were highly educated in music in music schools. Musical education is important in building for the future in Iceland and a very good way to teach our young to think a little different and learn a little different. Other than that. I'd like to talk to you about prisons on the budgets. I'm very happy to see that there are about 24 million on the budget bill. K. ... totheU.S.S.A.T.C.A. It would then flow directly to meet the day - to - day management of the Agency itself. I am also glad to see in the changes in the more part of the world that 20 million are going to the prison facility and in particular for the construction of locked prison facilities, e.g. to the family room so that prisoners can receive their children at Little Time and possibly elsewhere. So it's been a very short time, and our prisons have been very expensive lately. That's why we're in Pirates making a move which is specifically aimed at taking back the strict requirements made, especially to Little-Real. The current situation is totally unacceptable. There are no tools or tools to buy to ensure the safety of employees and prisoners. There's an out-of-date equipment. The staff's lives are put at risk, beyond the fact that there is no funding to plan back shifts and that the prison that we would like to run is not possible. A minister has already mentioned at the council Hall that some 80 million people have to be put in prisons so that we can drive them properly. That's why we propose to add 27 million to Little Hogue and earmarks in particular Little Lava where it's the prison that's most necessary. This is a matter of change of mind, a question about losing our view of prisons as punishment and rather being reformed. This needs to be made clear. We do this by spending more money in prisons. This is one of the most vulnerable institutions in society. There's not much to show for something terrible to happen. It is our duty that I, as members of the Parliament, think to meet this. Little Time's been a hell of a lot of money. It simply takes this funding to meet the strict maintenance requirements that have been carried out in recent years. Given the present situation, it's just a matter of time before something terrible happens. It is a matter of taking action and treating this class with dignity. Another factor that has been in this recent discussion is older citizens' discretion and disability. I'd like to celebrate the change form from the memory of the part that calls out for poorer and older citizens to go back on May 1 this year, like the pay in the public market. They contribute to 6.6 billion dollars. a donation will be made to improve the interests of older citizens and disability. Again, this is a question of change of mind. It's a matter of stopping thinking of this as an improvement. Beers are something that you might get once, you need to think of it as a reward. These are our citizens, the people who choose us. It has just as much right to life and a decent reward as it does the rest of us. This is the first step in getting out of that roommate's mind and being on a farm and all that stuff. We need to get out of it, cripples and older citizens are valid citizens in Icelandic society. I support this transformation of mind. This is something we should do and be proud to do. It should be the first thing to correct the interests of these people in the country, simply because they are usually the one most unfortunate, as we have discussed in this pontta. 172 you have. K. a month is not a lot of money to play on. There is no way to live a life that is truly good. It would be an extremely good time for micro- and older citizens to get that money right before Christmas. There have been increases in society. They'll have to accept that. They also have the right to earn this income, as well as to raise, where the benefits are bad enough already. This step is a matter of justice. This is a step towards equal society. Since this group has been left out, we are building on the basis that certain groups will be drawn back. It's a particularly delicate matter about Christmas. So I'm going to finish my case by celebrating this proposal, and I hope it will succeed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u134	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator before the talk and accepts her criticism as she points out that there are many noncommodities involved. It is an assignment that every person realized the need to work when budgeting for 2015 was approved. They were not unpredictable. It's just a sign of the government's poor planning. Hv. A senator spoke of taxation and how to collect revenue taxes from foreign tourists. She mentioned city taxes that we know and pay if we travel abroad. At the very least, I've been in that situation when I've paid for a hotel through the Internet that I'm charged with paying taxes and overnight when I arrive at my place. Hv. A senator did not mention the merit tax, but I would like to ask her if she does not consider the use of the merit tax system before any new fees and complex collection routes are due. Today, there is a value tax in transport in the lower level, such as food and necessities paid by the public. I'm asking why. A member of the Parliament whether it would be normal for a job, one of the largest in the country, to live in the same environment as other employment practices.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u135	A respectable president. I thank a senator for this good question. I just feel like we should do everything together. City tax, inmate charge, all of it is a well-known phenomenon. It's low level of crowns. On the other hand, in terms of the valuable tax, I think the tourist service pays a valuable tax as much as any other industry or sector in the country. I understand that not all trips are sold, Gold Falls and Geys, and so on, due to the tribute. It's just a good idea to use the system to get more money into the government fund. I'll agree with that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u136	Mr. President. This has been linked to rural society, which has set up a budget board this fall almost all of the business in the country, to the fact that the property tax, the answer, and the balance fund, these legal income stocks, is not enough for the operation. They call for part of the valuable tax because it costs tourists they don't get back. I've been talking about some of the locals getting a share of the hunting fees. Perhaps we could let the energy tax, which is supposed to run out at the end of the years, continue and pass some of it on to the countryside. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agrees with this? Has it formed a view of how best to meet the local community's call for more income companies?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u137	A respectable president. In the case of increased expenses resulting from increased tourist populations, I think it is entirely justified that they get part of it directly to themselves as stocks of income. So I suggest, for example, that we separate the tax from the host tax to simplify it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u138	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for an excellent speech. I'd like to include her according to what is shown in the budget bill on child reforms and compensations. This amount was expected for them, but they are being taken out because they are not thought to fall to the criteria for child reforms that are affected by 200 levels. K. That's why we're going back to the state budget 600 million. K. ... tothisaggressor. This also happens in the growth process, which goes on 200 million. K. Back into the state fund. The overall assessment of households increased by 8%, and this has resulted in a view that housing is increasing and therefore is not entitled to these growth reforms. However, the value of recovery does not mean that there is a better payment. I'd like to hear from what happened. A senator, as a young senator, feels that it has not been fully needed to change child - welfare guidelines and to use these amounts of 200 million. K. ... infringement; and 600 million. K. in child damages, these groups for the good of young children, who have no easy way of making money or living a home for themselves based on how the purchases happen on the island. I'm asking why. A senator cannot imagine that he could have been used by means of a series of guidelines regarding these payments.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u139	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's heartfelt interest in the inquiry is a great deal of justice for my generation and older and even younger. It is, in fact, shameful that a child's family is being put in their pocket in an effort to put a trust in government. Also with the interest improvements. They're useful to those who don't, but this is important to housing owners, especially if we're trying to get people to stay in this country. I think it's embarrassing, and that's why I agree with what the lesser part says, that the objective has not been demonstrated to be achieved to justify this entry. I'll say something special for you. paritaprevir Katrín's daughter, Jakobsdóttir, said that this was really a change of course. This is political, and it should be discussed in detail rather than insinuate it into budgets. I find this really embarrassing and do not understand the reasoning because everything in the world seems to be raising, such as housing prices are getting out of control. Even if I'm a young senator at a councilman's wedding, I don't see how much money I can afford to buy property, let alone have children in this country for the next ten years.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u140	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I'd like to direct her to another question about the country's infrastructure. It is stated in this budget that 1.3 billion are decided to be set aside for transport, and the usual decision - making procedures that are usually followed by such donations are not followed. I'd like to ask you what. A senator will find that when some activity is unremarkable, he will feel the need to build up transportation if we are to receive all the tourists who come to the land and care for the inhabitants of the country. In many places, the prospect of building up transportation has diminished. They're embarrassing us. I'd like to ask you what. A senator doesn't feel that it was needed in the first place, that there was a travel strategy and that people were applying it and spending more money on this suit.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u141	President. Transport in Iceland is a disgrace. I'm very interested in how the budget is actually new to make political decisions. Although budgets are in nature political, I don't feel that they are the scene of being either, by permission of a president, in some ballot, or to ensure that some special roads are being passed over a road program that I didn't know any better than if I were in force, but it may well be that I was wrong. I find it very interesting that traditional policy practices are being overlooked. It's important to fix the road system here on the land, so I'm sure there's so much to it. These are the worst roads I have ever gone, and yet I have gone up to the mountains of Caucasus, where no roads have been made for 30 years. It's worse driving through Westland than driving there. There's good reason to put more money in this suit, however, plans need to be followed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u142	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. As for Porta's new proposal, I don't expect to be. A senator can answer for her. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, but I'd like to curious. We agree that the State Department of Prisons is a failure. I think it's perfectly clear. I think the government knows, too, because there's been more money in making changes, both in budgets and in budgets of 2016. There's no money in this suit, especially in Little-Reun's business, but the same thing about Holmsheans, because you don't see in 2016's budget that business is being planned, maybe they're hoping the prison won't open until one day late and then at some point in the year. Here's a proposal for a budget to be made to the prison of Little Lava to counterweight the state's budget, which has been very close to the Agency's management board. Then I ask: Is it not better to try to make a change in the budget so that it comes in from year to year? It's really a business we're talking about, and we've criticized that men are on the budget, and it's nothing new, it's been that way through the years, except maybe during the last term so that I'm fair, to pull in money into business. I understand where this comes from, but I think there should be more of a change in the budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u143	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a good question. I will try to answer it as best I can. You're right next door. A senator's proposal has passed. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson. The reason we're suggesting that 27 million go to Little Lague's jail is because this is the amount the Little Lava had to cut down in the past year. This is simply to get it back on track, because the cut that has been placed into a particularly bad position. There's every reason to give more money to this party. That's why I'm very happy to see that more money is being put here on budgets, because it needs to be. However, we want to make earmarks of this suggestion that it is a perturbance but also because it was made up of regulations that have been extremely damaging to the Agency, including the Agency. during the past year. And, yes, we'll make a change in budgets as well, in an effort to secure the base of LittleReun and other prisons in Iceland much better.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u144	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's answer, even though I may not be convinced. There are a lot of requisition requirements, and, in some cases, agencies are funded, we just see it, they fight on the banks. But we agree that it needs more money, so it can be maintained. There's one thing I forgot to talk about in my speech today that comes into the motion of making changes, and it's the church. The government decided that the contract that was made with the National Church will be restored and the standards of maintenance will cease, but it will still be employed trying to figure out how this will be behaved in the future. It's a controversial team. I thought it would have been normal for me to have come in in in in 2016. Then they would have started with a clean table, instead of having it come into the budget. I wonder what. A senator has some opinion of it, and he would like to reiterate that it is this agreement, I don't think the state is at odds with arguing it with one, two or three, whatever we think of a donation to the National Church. But then I would have, because it's 370 million, rather wanted this on 2016's budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u145	A respectable president. Thank you. That's the answer from a senator. I can't tell you exactly what went for my chest at what. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, but I've tried to do it my best. On the other hand, I think about the State Church and Religion that maybe we should file Little Lava as a new religion. They'd probably make a better income than they do now. It might be a good solution to the problem of documenting Little Hill as a religion, so those concerned about this community's illest group get the appropriate services to do it directly with their tax dollars. Regarding the church meeting, there is a matter that needs to be considered. I understand it's in a movie. However, whether we like it or not, we have a national church. We have a deal with her, so we must obey until we find a way out of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u146	A respectable president. We're here discussing a bill for funding, and it's one of the major prime project every year, a regular here at the council, for example, one of the key roles of holding the budget, holding the money at the government tournament. These separations of budget and outside planning factors and the results of budgets are the basis for all the Kingdom work and service. I'd like to start by saying something different. Councilmen who have spoken here today, the budget is actually a result. They are correction of what has happened in the past year, correction of things that have changed unexpectedly, that is, the thought, since the budget was approved at the end of the last year. In this bill for financial support, before 2015, we see quite a lot of change, a lot of fluctuation. The big news may be mainly the fact that in this financial bill it shows that in 2015 the income is considerably higher than expected in the budgets adopted less than a year ago. It's great news, and I think it's important to look at only where this unexpected income is coming from or where more money comes from. Of course, they come to some degree from uncertainty issues. They come from uncertainty factors such as the fact that banks owned by the state are far higher than expected in the budget bill. There has also been an increase in social activities, so tax revenues have increased according to the budget. It is our duty here at the General Assembly, which has the budget but also a surveillance role with the executives, with the government and its council, to consider whether these large swings, which we see in the budget today, are predictable or unpredictable. The sum should not be a device; if we have a joint or a pocket, called unpredictable or unpredictable, it should not be too bed. Sadly, in the last few decades, you have had the feeling of being able to use the funds to move, correct, bring in as much as possible extra funds in some cases, at different sides in certain categories, push for releases and releases in non-good schemes, and that type a person to set a plan properly for it. To say, let us not forget that the government business - these are some of the largest numbers in Icelandic society - is huge and very complex, so it is not unusual for people to change, that there are certain factors that are difficult or even impossible to predict. Then things happen over a year that can have a great impact. In the short future, we have criticized, in the budget of this council, that there are some factors that always arise. There is always evidence that there is much more need, especially when it comes to health insurance, but the budget should be planned. Understandably, it is not possible to anticipate it, nor are Nostradamus in any of the instruments that can calculate how many become sick or what it will cost to provide them with health care, but somehow you may suspect that it is convenient, because of the uncertainty of the health insurance just because of the nature, to estimate health insurance too low, and then manage it or correct the funds. Of course, I think men always have crosses fingers that the money is on the right side of zero, i.e. that there is increased income in return. Well, if not, it's only boring, but it's corrected over time because this money's left the state's budget. I would like to agree with the criticism of others. Today, members of Congress on specific terms that are in the budget, where you have the impression that, in fact, political decision is being made on an additional basis, i.e. because the sum of money offers a correction and a replacement, it is being added to things that had not been added, what was missing in the plans, and helped to put the budget forward, and to agree that they were in plus, i.e. ... thatwasnotalimony. But then there's a considerable amount of expenses that are adjusted a little quietly, let's say, by means of the bonus. Interestingly, there are just about 3 billion in the budget of Vega's project. It is known and known that some of them are unpredictable. This is a major cost to snowstorms because of weather conditions. But here you have the impression that it would have been a great pleasure to see a better prophecy from Nostradamus or a better plan in advance. Similarly, it is amazing to see in this budget 850 million distributed to the Commission Fund of tourist attractions. For us who remember well, and enjoyed the budget last year's special interest and interest, and followed closely, it was one of the things that were highly critical of the fact that there was not more to be expected in the travel fund than was in the budget. In this case, it turns out that 850 million who are meant to be in the budget to be placed in this fund are not far from the highest amount. The government noted that there was no need to add to the budget, but it was not added. Similarly, it must be said that it is a little special to see hundreds of millions of dollars running into the National Church. Now I don't want to step down on the project, but just because the budgets and budgets should apply and be agreed by the General didn't expect them to pay. So I want to agree with those who have criticized a measure of resources in the way they treat the funds. But to say, the good news in this budget is that we have a positive income. The sum of money is well over 20 billion, 20 ounces. Millions and well, on increased incomes, above what was expected. There is reason to rejoice, not just criticize that it was not provided. As I mentioned earlier in my talk, a large part of this is because the interest of banking agencies in the state is considerably higher than expected in the budget. What we are seeing is an ending in a considerable distance that shows that building work - from the failure of the banks to collapse and failures in the fall of 2008, and from the government funds such as other fundes in the country, there was a serious problem that had to be dealt with by extremely drastic measures and right cuts, left - is due, in particular, on the income side. It is also very important to think that when the budget was approved in less than a year ago, it was at the highest level. A government to give up money that was in the books, as you say, i.e. were using better landscapes, better economic weather, to take their political focus on lowering and changing taxes and charges. It is no secret that we in the minority categories had a warning that it was a bit visible that the broad pie was being shielded rather than the narrow. This trend appears to continue in the highest range. Government's in the budget for 2016. It is estimated that in spite of very good results, the cost of fishing costs still declines by billions, and certainly, the happy results of the marine industry in Iceland. It is assumed that the temporary, but at least partially, wealth tax has been accepted, i.e. to tax especially those of the highest assets in the country and those with the best - although it is certainly possible to discuss how far down such wealth taxes should reach. It is also an extremely dangerous plan for interest from government banking agencies in these financial institutions. This will not only affect the income of a state fund but, because the budget is properly expressed, as in any homebook, that an attempt is made to make them stand, and preferably to remain flat or properly expressed in plus. So the accepted side, the one that comes in, what is expected to come into the budget, has a tremendous effect on what you intend to let yourself go outside. It is not really possible to discuss these matters without criticizing that now, at last, when a better and long - term building job, such as reducing taxes and reducing income is beginning to improve the situation of Iceland's economy, being political whims, I allow myself to call it, to be controlled, and to go on such projects as to reduce taxes and to reduce income rather than to go back to the critical and vital work of helping back on those institutions and the community that have been seriously cut down, often very painful, in the collapse when all of us were on the road to calmness of life and to keep the boat flottill and all in the community on one thing that they could do in general, that they could take in the way of life. But now, when there was a chance, the tendency is that our institutions remain financial - and now I'm looking at the Land Hospital, as famous as it has become, not going to dive into it. However, while improved by health care, it is again, as in the past two years, not in harmony with what the hospital officials consider necessary to stay gone, but key organizations, such as Land Hospital, are still being starving. I shot out of the House of Congress to be present at a very joyful meeting in a town; on the other hand, the United Nations was able to give its awards to the Groundfrost; and on the other hand, Iceland's Generous Community was to give their awards; it is quite wonderful and some of the most enjoyable meetings in this fine and pleasant country. This, however, again reminded a man of the situation of disability and old - age pensioners who are the main groups dependent on the government's donations for his income, on their livelihood. I can't really finish my speech without saying a few words about the adjustment of my share of legal committees where we suggest, let's make our proposal, especially in the light of the situation that appears in the budget - here are tens of billions of dollars, over 20 billion, which the management is making over plans despite changes in the budget; and in the way that the more part changes are expected to occur, there will be more billions left to the state's position at the end of the state's budget. It is a priority for how such plus is used. Changes in the share's proposals assume that the improvement in pensions and in pensions will be increased to the level of the minimum wage increase, that the rise will be restored to May 1 in the same way as the advice of counsel has decided that we generals and major officials and society officials are uplifted back to keep us lost and in harmony with what is going on in the big markets and in the rhythm of pay changes that have occurred in society. But money and suggestions, tops. Governments do not assume that this group, the pensioner population, and the desperate, will enjoy this trend backward, as do other members of the community, those who have, either through contracts or as we do. Allied council members - we enjoy this increase, not the most difficult of our brothers, but the most unfortunate of all, it is a shame to report it, society's leading low - income groups. I feel like I don't have to beg or cry in more things or at what. The General Assembly for this proposal of my part to be accepted. I believe this is such a justice case, I believe this proposal is so self-improved; in my kindness, I account that more of the legal committees have just overlooked this problem by their proposals. On the contrary, I don't want to beg. Rather, I want to encourage, cheer and positive, and much worse. Named, part of the highest. Governments, to accept this adjustment proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u147	Mr. President. I want in the beginning my answer to what's happened. paritaprevir Óttar Proppér echo his concluding words. I deeply agree that we should not have to cry for it. The majority of the Council to agree with the changes proposed by the less part of the budget committee, that there will be increases in older citizens and disability in accordance with the increase in the lowest salary and the return of payments in time, or from May 1. This is a fair matter. I'm sorry, but I haven't seen any tearing of it with that guy. The members of the greater part have spoken this afternoon, mainly in objections; I don't see that there's a lot to it. As shown in the case of what? The senator's purpose is to correct something that has happened in the past year and something that has changed and was not anticipated. I'm asking why. A senator would agree with me in that it is surprising to provide extra expenses for a number of very advanced teams that did not get space on budgets, such as the tourist attractions and the road repairs, but when it comes to things unseen, like dresser reforms, it seems that they do not want to be lent to the budget. Isn't this a very amazing arrangement of financial contributions?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u148	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I have to agree with what. A senator: Yes, in my eyes it is a little strangely prerogative to see, as I said in my speech, perhaps indiscriminately different groups at the Vega program, and not at all an unexpected team in the tourism Fund, compared with the discussion of budgets less than a year ago, but do not see at the same time the change that has taken place in the country's affairs during the year. It is not as if the State did not play a major role in the development of fish farms during the year. Much of the increases that have occurred during the year are in the exact terms of contracts that the State is involved in. Other areas in the budget are taking into account these growths at increased expense. It is, in fact, a tragic error when those in the state's funds dependencies, and we're primarily talking about microattainers and pensioners, they don't include them. I mentioned in my talk only the matter to the advice of a dresser whose job is to let us go. Allied members of the body are following a pay development, an estimate that would require a substantial increase in our salary, and a recovery. We live in the luxury, generals, that if money comes to us, we can at least make it a success. But it's hard to do that when you're on the other side of the table and you don't have any height, it's just a lack of experience.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u149	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I don't think any members of all members of the council who have spoken of my part here at the General Assembly went through their speech today without specifically discussing the injustice that the improvement in pensioners will not be repetitious. Clearly, then, this is something that we all place great emphasis on. Hv. In his speech, a member also stated that what he reads out of the budget and even the funds is that the broad pies are more protected than the narrow ones and so obvious, that the side of income influences what humans can then take away. Despite that, like a whale. A senator traced his speech, the government gave up money, is still left over, beyond what is needed to reimburse a pensioner. I want to ask you why. Senator: Can we not read very clean and complete political politics and political priorities of the government out of these budgets and the reaction we have received today to the suggestion of the lesser part? Isn't this just a political thing that goes on setting priorities for those who already have it good in society, not to do better with those who have it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u150	A respectable president. I have the habit of not reading evil in people's plans until they are fully aware of what they are. But it has to be said, as it is, that the bill that is being presented here, the adjustment proposed by the greater part, and the debate here today, gives you a sign that your priorities are clear and, unfortunately, it does not mean that the desperate and pensioners are. But as I mentioned before, I am a optimistic man. I allow myself, in all my optimism and joy, to believe that the greater part of the Council will come to realize that it is such a matter of justice - that you do not talk about when money is packed - that this great change will be accepted with joy and joy. I trust it until another thing comes out. It is a priority for these funds because this is a type of work that is being replaced. The road is being renovated, they're renovating the National Church, the European Commission Fund for tourist status, etc. However, important services of the welfare system are not being renovated. Now I'm looking at the affairs of the sick, the elderly, the poor, the stranger; the interpretation funds are unchanged, and so on. If something is, much of the expense of welfare matters is spilling under price conditions rather than holding seawater. I'm sorry, but I can't help but read political priorities out of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u151	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for the speech. He was told how to plan it and how the programme published in 2015 has been conducted. It is, of course, highly striking, as the senator noted, that there are close to 18 billion, an 18 billion gap in the government plan or the Ministry of finance with interest from the Bank of Lands alone. Skew was 15 billion in 2014 and we have suspected in the smaller part that it will be at least 20 billion in 2016. We can see that there is no lack of capital because it is impossible to improve the interest of the elderly and the disability because paying them back from May 1, 10.9%, as a minimum wage increase, will cost only 6,575 million. K. It doesn't cost money. Hv. One senator said that he was hoping that my proposal would be accepted. I'd like to agree with him because I've been feeling that the executives are turning around with us in the memory of the fact that it's fair and that it's hard to defend this, at least. All right, folks, let's go. This morning, the question was, "What?" paritaprevir Elsa Lára Arnardóttir said the ball was at the top. Secretary of finance in this regard, dismissing the case from the candidates. I want to pray. A senator like this would wonder if it could be that at the end of the day, my section will be proposed on top of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u152	A respectable president. I mentioned several times in my talk to Nostradamus, the famous prophetess. I don't like going to be somebody like Nostradamus. It must be acknowledged that when compared with what happened. A senator is the one standing here as natural as a queen in politics, so I may not be as perceptive as how politicals work or predict. But I allow myself to be positive and optimistic because I feel that this is true in all sincerity, even though, here, of course, is more part of it, and the government groups are giving up the budget and the less part in their role of giving them the right to go over, not being the role of more parts or less parts. Of course, in the memory, we do not have the idea that there is justice and that the lowest paid groups follow others. Obviously, it's not our idea or it's ours alone. I'm sure it's a case of justice that I think would require the most moralist so that he wouldn't turn his head around. And you feel it in the community, and you feel it in this house, too, that there's a lot of understanding and a desire for what is involved in the transformation of the memory of the part. As I said before, I allow myself to be optimistic, I don't really think it matters where the votes come from, whether they're smaller things or more things, it starts both on me, it's good enough for me while I'm at it. A general looks after himself.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u153	Mr. President. It's just that it's the smaller part that makes the suggestion, but the more part hasn't gotten to it. But I'm going to allow myself to be a prophet here. I find that this case is difficult political for the greater part, and that the general members of Congress who support the government are not happy to protect the protection of the ideals of the poor and the elderly below the minimum. Therefore, I think that although my proposal for the part will be dropped in 2nd. will come a new proposal between discussions, just different calculated, and that we will all agree with it. I predict that. Then we'll see what happens. Hv. A senator spoke a lot about planning earlier, and I liked what he said. There's a good picture in the budget. Shows what the situation has been. It shows that right up until collapse there was a big difference between the budget and the financial aid. There were always changes. We failed there, probably because we were forced to do it. We are not greatly disciplined when it comes to government affairs and the next items on the program following this issue are just the financial laws that are being handled very carefully on this, policy and planning, on which it is to be established and all of this. I'd like to ask, because of what. A senator spoke a lot about the plan and its importance, whether he believes that Iceland and I are disciplined and well brought up in order to follow a strict budget on government matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-03-46.u154	A respectable president. I happily share in a dream vision of a dream. A senator on how to do this. I think the main thing, and I don't really care how it happens, this justice case, which is an upsurgent and desperate pensioner, that it gets through. As for the plan, I agree. A senator in whom we have been doing well. We've been better. Our story is naturally very ugly with a poor plan, not just our state, but our Icelanders. It may have something to do with the weather and the hunting, and so on. To do, it's like there's something missing in us that genes. But then, when we experience tragedy, as we did in the 2008 and 2009 collapse of the bank, it becomes evident that we are remarkably quick to learn, that we are quick to let go of the aid wheels, and run. Of course, the bill on public finances is a sign that we should do better. I've had experience with the state government level, and I've been working on the Reykjavík City budget, and I've had them follow up after the financial rules of the new federal administration became so stiffer. In fact, they are even a little stiffer than we expect in the bill. They were amazed at how well they were going, what we could have planned. I myself say that when I was younger and dumber, I may not be dying of old age, but when I was even younger and even more stupid, I got into financial trouble just out of madness. After an uninformed situation, I learned from it and have had a good sense of keeping myself on the right side of it ever since, such as the release of the tragedy.
