ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u1	A respectable president. We, a group of senators, in a third dozen generals, attempted to get a greater part of it to disappear from the error of having surprising issues on the program when there is a need to discuss the terms of the people in the country and to improve the terms of the people as well as the status of their homes, not to stand in such surprising matters as those given here on the table. After that vote, we encouraged the president to give careful consideration to the situation and to take other and more basic matters on schedule today and to declare again and again that it is not our will to discuss these worthless things today. We would like to discuss the benefits and necessities of the country and what we can contribute to the heartrending speech that now burns heavily on the people. If the president is not going to reconsider the program after our encouragement, I think it is the one that we need to try it here on Friday again with a program proposal to get this evil case off the program, for no use to discuss it here. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u2	A respectable president. People in strike - and - job conflicts are called upon to learn that listening is being made and that their standard of living is improved. The council does not see that this call is being heard because the program has issues on resource arrangements that were known to have no peace but would take much time from the council. Since then, it has been found that they do not even have an entire bridge in them when it comes to how they are going to be handed out. I suggest that the President and the majority of the council see their faces and decide to listen to what is being called and bring in matters that divide the people in this country and the tens of thousands of people who are in strikes and conflicts. At 4:30, we're going to be here, outside of an open resource meeting. I think it would also be a good idea for us to pause for a meeting and go out and talk to people and see what they're burning instead of standing in a circus like the ones we witnessed here yesterday. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u3	A respectable president. The first part of this meeting is the one that shows up at 4:30 a.m., giving delegates the opportunity to meet with Protestants who will be here in the East, and it is also a good reason to study the views of natureists whom they have chosen to overlook completely in this all - important discussion. Then I want to reiterate the comments that have been presented here on the priorities of the government. Of course, reading the writings of the Independence Party, which are beginning to recommend laws to ban strikes and to part of the results of a labour market's purchases and fees, is a source of concern. You wonder: " Is the program being conducted as we are here to take note of what is really happening? Is it to take the government to safety with the terms of union contracts? [[The president calls.]] What is the purpose of the program for matters that cause problems similar to that of a wolf's mouth?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u4	A respectable president. It will not be enough often told in this room under this discussion and under the supervision of President's conference board that this matter, scheduled for the greater part of yesterday's council, is not the case that we in the smaller part of the world would want to spend our time talking here today, ideas, or even beyond. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son in activation business, it's a total waste of time. What we should be doing now and would be normal and we have stressed since we met with President on Monday is taking time to review the work market situation, to review how we can put our strings together in the politics to meet those positions, the more serious places that are up there, cross the field, see if there is anything in the tax law, in the company, in the social sector, in the housing, that we can help assist with the situation that has come up. That is not the choice of the government sector right now. We are therefore facing a state of total impotence.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u5	A respectable president. It is strange to see that the government's opposition continues the debate that they started here for years, even for the program that usually starts at the right time; this is often the case with members of Congress. [[Up front.]] I'd like to inform you that I asked the House of Information to gather for me last night what had been spoken for hours under the program for the President's conference board. Last night between seven and eight, it was about nine hours. A respectable president. More than one day at the program for President's conference board. I received a route from the information department, where it's believed to be as hard. Many have prayed for the word under those words. Afterward, I'm going to give a signal and give the exact position of how many speeches are done when this crash is over and for how many minutes and for how many hours. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u6	A respectable president. We spoke here last night on the council arrangement with a new proposal from which. The employment committee, but this proposal is unacceptable for three reasons. First, the legal system is incomplete, but as noted, instruments for the performance of laws, secondly, the proposal is materially unacceptable, and third, it is a lack of political basis, a political backland. The only thing that is going on in these circumstances is to withdraw the production of more than one part of the employment committee and start a discussion on other matters. That's all that's going to work. A respectful president insists that the matter will be discussed until it ends, but this case will not be concluded if we are to continue to discuss this unprecedented change.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u7	A respectable president. Of course, the frequency of the conversation is a measure of the situation at the council. There are many members of Parliament who use this team to protest. Clearly, this needs to be done so that it will be noticed. There are many of us who believe that the adjustment is a major part of the employment committee is legal. We don't want to, and we're not going to let this happen in Iceland and that there's going to be an end to a frame plan and a law on it. So we'll definitely remember, yes, object to this, object to the Supreme decision. A president prepared for the President's conference board. I'm gonna do it. I've read the Supreme Decision again. The President and I find this decision laughs at the legal spade that goes on there. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There are other sentences for this change, e.g. from the Environment Ministry. [[The president calls.]] Of course you should retract it, it would pay for action.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u8	Mr. President. I agree with the people here who have spoken and were the highest. To put the issues on a program that is actually waiting to be arranged, I mentioned here yesterday when I spoke up about the President's conference board. It's interesting. A senator and the chairman of a legal committee should take it upon themselves to keep our minds fixed on how we are being dealt with by those in the government. It would not be amiss if we were to review it a little bit when she was in a position of government. In the same case, she did 115 times and did not consider it to be a filibuster and did not consider herself to be saying the same things often. [[Up front.]] It wasn't quite like that. [[Up front.]] This is a dignified president, an opportunity to present our dissatisfaction to the president, and we have, and we have, and we will continue to do so. The decision that the president will decide that this case will be held until the end of the discussion - it will just end, and nothing else, if the president intends to move on.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u9	Mr. President. I'd like to agree with that as a dog. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir said; she agreed very well with her opinion on the matter. This is not meant to have a long-term energy policy development in Iceland. That's exactly what's happening in the McKinsey report on Iceland, p. 85, so that I say again so that people can start to look at what long-term policy development is lacking in Iceland and how costly it is not to have long-term dating in such large litigation groups, but energy is one of the categories mentioned. One of the opinions expressed by the Environment and Resource Ministry is whether the treatment at the council to include alternatives to the original Congress resolution is a possible legal offense. Such a synonym that comes from the council and conflicts with the law is unacceptable. It must not be carried out by a minister. Why are we having such a case here at the council? [[Up front.]] Don't you think it's just an initiating option, then get involved in appointing people to this project, which is loyal to them, following the procedure, even if it's a political setup? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's just a violation of the law. As a result, the matter is dead when it comes out of the council. [[The president calls.]] We're not supposed to be talking about this right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u10	Mr. President. This matter is not designed to increase confidence in the council. As we have seen, the legal basis for this transformation is sick, to say the least. The discussion here yesterday has also exposed the fact that more than a part of the employment committee has not been able to respond to the criticism presented, including With regard to this legal basis, and since has not been able to represent his case and explain why he believes this proposal is timely. In fact, there have been no answers to that question. It crystals here yesterday when the highest. The environmental minister jumped on deck and said that she had not made this suggestion; she had followed the example of the former Supreme Court. Environment Minister and suggest one option, as agreed by the Framework Management Board. You have the impression that the confusion in this discussion is also explained by the marked disunity that exists between the ruling parties. The head of the trade board then comes up here and says that some ministers don't matter. There are some ministers who are ministers of the seminar in this case. [[The president calls.]] What do those in attendance say about this? Are they behind their minister in this matter? [[The president calls.]] I would like to hear it before the discussion continues. The senators of the forward party are behind their environmental minister in this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u11	Mr. President. As the president may remember, I did not foretell to force this trial of the war chief. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son into the council program. I was not afraid, though, that the case was going to be as devastating as it was yesterday, where the basic legal adjustment of the proposal was, among other things, shot down by legal memos from two legal devices that were immediately available before Christmas. It turns out that in spite of all the research work, more than a part of the professional committee has not read them or just ignored them. Of course, the President's decision is also shot down in the same way. This does not look good, a respectable president. Now is not the time for the General for an assignment. It is enough to talk about the situation whether it is in the labour market or to take care of a few bills that are ready for 2nd. and payment for the winter's work on committees. But there's nowhere to go but this top priority. So we're all hostage for what? þm. Jón Gunnar's son? [[The president calls.]] There's one thing to be clear, it's a big deal going on in case it's going to be, the natural nature of Iceland, and no one's gonna take my right to defend it, and leastly, it's not my righthv. þm. Vigdís Hauksdótttir. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Set up a schedule.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u12	V.E.G. President. I had not planned to take advantage of my right to the council members to address the President's meeting board, which is under law until I heard it. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir would have asked the General Assembly to gather details about this program. My request to what? The senator is asking for one more document in which a discussion during the last term of the president's meeting program would be brought together and perhaps set up just two excel columns. The other thing I can agree with is that the frame-up case changed yesterday with news of status and ratings at the highest level. The environmental minister and the reply here yesterday in response to her speech. In a way, she killed the situation. I'm sure some senators are supporting it in this. Finally, I'd like to direct it to the president that he will take the lead at the earliest opportunity. Secretary of education in unsubstantiated queries. I'd like to talk to him about some dark things he's doing in the north, and he's never got better behind it, i.e. During the night, he is going to unite three high school schools in the northern part of the country. [[The president calls.]] Therefore I desire to have a place to speak to him as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u13	Mr. President. As other members of Congress would object, this matter is being arranged here. I must say, Mr. President, I do not realize the politics behind keeping the council occupied with a case that, as noted here, is on the weakest legal basis and a weaker political foundation. Here we go. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, chairman of the budgetary committee, with detailed information on how many minutes have gone to the President's conference board. [[Up front.]] Now the question is, What is the purpose of this work? Maybe you're afraid of what? A senator's falling from the last term, however, if it turns out that fewer minutes have gone to the President's conference board during the last term, it will only indicate that fewer reasons have been made to make comments to the President's meeting board during the last term. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] [["Icezave."]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u14	A respectable president. This body's position and attitude may be reflected in the fact that the chairman of a greater legal committee at the National Assembly of Iceland has nothing more and more to do than to monitor statistics over how often people speak in the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u15	You know...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u16	In the circumstances now in the labour market, I would have thought that the chairman of the legal committee would have something more to do than that. A respectable president. The decision here is to be in the actual state of state at the Generals to count the minutes of speakers or to deal with the measures of the nation's resources, one of the most controversial cases of our time. Men have been asking what they're doing. This is done, a respectable president, to cover over the complete inadequacy and inability of this government to deal with the pitiable conflicts that are now on fire in the labour market. [[The president calls.]] That's why we're here in this reality situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u17	A respectable president. You're absolutely right. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir. It's an odd thing. It's a buttercup. The directors of the board, Dr. Gunnlaugsson Guinulsson and Bjarni Benediktsson, have everything on the heels of the two major issues of the same day, and are fighting against the demands. To direct the light away from that dire fact, they want to have everything they need during the council. [[Up front.]] That's why they've hidden it. paritaprevir This is Director Jón Gunnarsson from the gym.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u18	A respectable president. For word's sake. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon's statement that nature is being taken violently by activation in the lower part of Turbulence is a good way to recall his earlier comment on this activation option. Implicits in the lower part of Tubes are highly effective because they use all the media above the Red Sea area, e.g. Nursing. True, the changeer is a very normal option before a person invades a new and damaged area. He'll answer to that question at the highest. Industrial Minister and ask if he needs more activation options than these direct, efficient wasteers, which cause extreme environmental impact and is reversed in the sense that they can remove the dams, take down the pipes and let the water back into their path. That's what it said. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's Steingrimur on the lower wall of Turbs. Of course, the disorientation and nonsense are all in the lesser part of this case, a respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's rock mask is once again the cigar he's best known for being here at the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u19	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir gave the impression that she was supporting her highest. The secretary of the environment in her lawsuit in this case, much of which has been debated here. I must call for that. A senator explains it better. Is it supported, as it were, the taking of Anti-Segocation and Hag water activation out of the changing process? [[...the program?]] [[Up front.]] How intriguing it would be to hear it from what happened! A senator who has the opportunity to enter a chair, who has not been in doubt here to take advantage of the platform, he spoke 115 times during the discussion of the Council of Government, and then only one case is taken, 115 times as short as possible. A senator came up here, shining from the fountains of his soul across the entire realm of Congress. [[... Icesave.]] [[Up front.]] I'd love to hear from what. A senator is curious about whether he or she is supporting the Supreme Court. Environment Minister of the Congress Party. [[The president calls.]] I challenge it. A senator giving a signal for the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u20	Mr. President. I criticize that this dissociative case, as I would like to call it, is still on the agenda. It is not as if we have all the world's time ahead, that is, about eight more active days left in the council. It's amazing that we senators are supposed to talk about this matter for the rest of the council, and that there's no interest in the government in putting any other urgent issues to work. This case will never get through. Is this just some fulfillment because the government groups don't agree on the fundamental issues that hit the public's door in the country? Is that how it is? It is not as if they even agree on this matter, but it seems to be thrown into the council in order to create some form of reconciliation in other areas on which to burn. [[The president calls.]] Don't we need to get rid of this unfortunate government?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u21	A respectable president. I'm glad to hear it. Environment Minister has expressed his position on this matter. I'm glad she said she wanted the proposal to stay the same. I'm also glad that Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson did the same in the fall. Because of the highest. A minister is the official of the matter. I'm asking if she can't simply undo it. Can't she cancel it from the council like a minister can do when it leaves when it goes wrong, when it goes into empty nonsense, corrects this implacable conduct? What do you say? Councilmen of the forward party here? What does it say? paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson? Is he gone? What does it say? paritaprevir Elsa Lára Arnardóttir, is she with her minister? What does it say? paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson about his environmental minister? What does it say? paritaprevir Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir? I'm not gonna ask you what. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir how she feels because she is busy with worthwhile projects, being a Timekeeper at the conference. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u22	V.E.G. President. I'm one of the people who was surprised that this case was back on schedule today after last night's discussion, new information that came in, after last night's news, and the playoffs. Environment Minister. V.E.G. The Environment Minister had to be so put to the test that the head of the professional trade committee, anyway. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, the minister called this woman's contemptuous remark to any minister in the city's history. We're talking about the Minister of the Tribal. It doesn't matter if some minister's opinion is somewhat different. Can you say less at this council than to be admonished, tops. President? I think there would have been plenty of occasion to stop the meeting, even if it was not for this humiliating remark. I challenge the highest. To take this matter off, see to it that this will be the subject of the strike and the situation in the strikes, if not today, at least on Friday, and then the cases that are already under way will be resolved, there will be no conflict and wait for the Senate's payment. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u23	A respectable president. This is what disagreement looks like. We're witness to that. The pressure is in a solution. I'd like to ask some more interesting questions about the conference board. President, how he manages the council and what he expects of the council. Made the highest. The President's granting the decision to change more part of the employment committee would be at peace with him? If he did not expect to do so, why did he not do something about making peace and turning it into a more upbuilding way? It's the highest. A president who doesn't care about the shape of the council? It is clear that if the matter was in the suit they were assigned to the council and that it was merely a matter of Indignity, it would likely be to take a vote. It's the adjustment proposal that lets everything up here. There is a two - step - down opinion that it is out of harmony with the law. [[The president calls.]] How the President wants the highest. Mr President being? Does he want to build trust? Does he want to make peace? Would he like to improve the shape of the council? Now these questions are put to the test.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u24	A respectable president. Hug rolls, guv'nor. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son earlier, as he traced the stand of the members of Congress to the individual fortresses, shows exactly the danger the government's role is playing by upset the system of frame plan. They're being reassigned to the Þrasa's chamber of activation. It is the largest contribution of the framework plan to remove them from the political scene. They are being brought back into the controversies and into the realms of politics. That's the real danger. The object of what? paritaprevir This is Jón Gunnarsson's son last night, who described as here justly expressed a female contempt for the highest degree. Of course, a minister of the environment and also a growing contempt for the team of fellow workers and his minister were in such a way that some kind of reevaluation of the existing information and at least a review of the program of this meeting should be required. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u25	V.E.G. President. They wonder what will explain the priorities of the administrative element. It's not surprising to me. It's not surprising. The only other trip will give this government and its administrative sector at the Council will give us insight into its emotional life. She has shown that in three cases she is willing to contribute everything, when taxes need to be relieved, by big people, and when paying on the streets of the great workers in the country, and that is what she is dealing with right now. Under the circumstances of the council in slow motion, it is customary to gather members of the council together for a meeting. I suggest the highest. The president has another way in now, calling to see him the directors of the administrations, then the highest. The minister of Sigmundur Davíð the Gunnlaugsson of Gunnler and Bjarni son of Benediktsson, to show them that this kind of work is not going to work. [[The president calls.]] The General will never have this offer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u26	Mr. President. You're right, I'm told in the Senate that the two evils are activated in the lower part of Turbulence, better than going into an unsettled area. This included the Langis Sea in comparison. It has nothing to do with my opposed to these activations today and has increased in the material as I've studied my situation better. For example, I believe in undefeated and unjustified to sacrifice one of the largest wild salmon stocks in the North Atlantic. I'm inclined to believe that a government with its members. Vigdís Hauksdóttir and Jón Gunnarsson do not need enemies or opponents, she is fully capable of taking care of herself in such matters. I think it's coming to the day. Hv. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir sometimes notes that it was chosen here in 2013, but it seems that the senator missed that more was given to the government groups, which they claimed to have formed a government. But when will they take up the power? [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] When will they stop in opposition to a government that left two years ago? [[The president calls.]] It is the only thing that will find out in the minds of these men and in the meantime that this land runs out of control. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u27	Mr. President. Work on a frame plan has been going on for more than 20 years, and this work has come up with hundreds of experts, ballots, and politicians. The spirit of the law that was accepted here was consistent with the work being done on the case, seeking reconciliation between those who want to protect and those who try to figure out how to land things instead of having nonstop debates each time wording or talking about protecting territory. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson came up earlier and pointed out a politician and his opinion and wanted to deny that there was a sign of the disorientation of government opposition. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson does not understand the spirit of framework, and there is a great problem, a respectable president, and there is yet another reason to take matters off the program.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u28	A respectable president. I agree with what just happened. It's not what I am or what I do. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson or what. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon feels that there's a measure of activation, that's not what's being discussed here, and I'm worried that the head of the professional authorities doesn't understand this. What we're discussing is, in general, whether a president feels that some members of Congress are not acting in accordance with law, a law on a structure that requires a specific procedure, and just doing something else altogether. That's what we put a question mark on us and we want to stop. The president has to explain why he doesn't. Is it to leave us all in a pit to discuss this because there's nothing else to discuss? There is nothing else that comes from the government, but there are people living in a hospital that can't be treated because we can't figure out how we can help them. [[The president calls.]] This is shameful.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u29	Mr. President. The reason this is under discussion about the President's conference board is because there are legitimate doubts about the basis for this adjustment. Although the U.S. Congress's right to offer suggestions is rich, does he always have to be limited by current laws, right, Mr. President? Therefore, I ask, " Is it not necessary to postpone this discussion until we have received conclusive evidence that this proposal is a contingency? ' It's based on six o'clock. Councilmen, Jón Gunnarsson, Haraldur Benediktsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Egilsdóttir Egilsdótttir, Sæmundsson and Páll Pálsson, believe that they are more qualified to submit to a professional assessment of the activation of a Framework Programme than the project administration, which has a legal role in the legislation of the framework. That's what this debate is about, whether or not this proposal violates the current framework laws despite the rich right of members of Congress to offer suggestions. [[The president calls.]] But they must be in accordance with the current legal environment and the decision by a president who claimed that he seemed to have some evidence that this might be in order, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u30	A respectable president. Only on this legal uncertainty, it's been handled well here, but basically we're doing nothing except what was done during the last term. We're changing proposals from a consulting committee at the council. [[Up front.]] These laws state how a minister can make these adjustments. The terms of the case at the Council are not required, but this has hardly been a time stamped. It can't be that it was the meaning of the Lawgiver. So I'd like to come to that, a respectable president, that I said in my speech yesterday at least. Senators would prefer to have a personal shit against me I wouldn't take it personally if it wasn't for no reason. But that may not be so immediately. A senator, president of the United States, comes up here and accuses me of having been contemptuous of this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u31	You were.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u32	It makes me feel that I've been too far, saying that I've had some kind of woman contempt. Here's what we're gonna do. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir, vice president of the United States, under that. This presentation here practiced in this case may be in line with the new politics proclaimed by these classes. You can go too far, and I'm full of them because I've been showing some kind of woman contempt here. [[The president calls.]] I don't think it's tasteful, and the senators don't deserve it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u33	Mr. President. Interestingly, the importance of this matter is highlighted here. You keep wondering what it's causing. Is it an attempt to pay a street of private business or privatization in the electrical power system? We know that private workers have gone very hard to get into the activation of Lake Hags, and they were given a lot of space at a job station committee to introduce their creative ideas.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u34	Who didn't get it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u35	And I hear what. The head of a professional car committee is a bit nervous in the seat. [[Everyone had the time they wanted.]] [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm worried that there's been a commitment to privateisation in the power sector. Is it not this government that puts it at the root of privacy wherever it comes from? There should be nothing shy about accepting the fact that this is their course. Is that not the policy of independence? The question is, What can they bring the advance party with them in that journey? [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u36	Mr. President. Isn't it our job here to try to work out an agreement on how to complete our council at a reasonable time? As far as I can tell, the government has declared it, including me, that it is ready to pay for the superintendent. Governments feel the need to contribute to the completion of collective agreements. For my part, I've declared that the government's possession is going to try to join the government on the loss of stable taxes if it's necessary to engage in the decommission of the currency. In this particular matter, is there a considerable deeper issue of conflict, but is it not a problem to resolve too? Can't be done by following the original proposal. The environmental minister she repeated both here and in the news yesterday, amend the original proposal, let the other one wait until the fall, and consider the case between? [[The president calls.]] Yesterday it was said that there was not much time until the result came. [[The president calls.]] Isn't that the simplest way?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u37	Mr. President. I'm calling up some committee party or something. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller, where the following appears from the environment and resource memo to the Committee 27 November 2014: Therefore, the Environment and Resource Ministry's assessment of the law of No. 48/2011 does not assume that the General will be able to change the category of these costs since the legal process of protection and energy efficiency has not been established in this respect. If we accept this at the General Assembly, the Environment and Resource Ministry, who will work by this framework: No, it's just a violation of the law, the law is not being carried out. As a result, there is nothing a minister can enforce. These laws were given in 2011. It was to include a four - year project program that some members of the board feel is delaying and overworking environmentalists. It can be replaced if they want to take the route instead of finishing it here at the council, legally unsure about activation matters in Iceland, which the Ministry itself says must not do because we're not writing laws, it's a pact proposal. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The law's drumming. This is to be canceled.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u38	V.E.G. President. I don't know what's going to happen. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson released me from the list of men who accused him of contempt because that's exactly what I did. When there is a need to resort to debate at the council and to use words such as the fact that individual ministers are not important and that they are speaking of the highest severity. Environment Minister - Can You Speak More to Something? I must admit that I first thought that it was only because a woman was in charge of this office. Maybe it should have been called a Minister's contempt. I haven't seen it. A senator uses this to deal with those who may be the most likely to suffer, the highest. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. Secretary of finance. We are talking about issues that need to be started so that we can find solutions to other subjects but also to find a way to handle this matter. It's going to be in trouble if you're going to use your fist all the time to get things done here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u39	A respectable president. It was mentioned earlier that elections became 2013 and referred to me. Again, I remind members of Congress that this is a very historic election in that year, in which the left groups made their position in the realm of Icelandic politics, and the new government was set in motion. [[Up front.]] This, among other things, explains the problem facing the Allied Congress today... [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]] See, this explains, among other things, the problem facing the Allied Congress today. [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]] [[The president calls.]] These political groups, the left greens and the Conspiracies, have never tolerated the loss of power. This is where they stand on a speaker's chair telling us that their course must be maintained. Not so, Mr. Honorable President. By the time these words are spoken, the program has been spoken 600 times by the chairman of the President's meeting board. It's been 10.5 hours since New Year's Eve. [[The president calls.]] It's noon the next day, so much has been spoken, whole day and three hours. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u40	A respectable president. I may feel that it's not quite right to bear a misdemeanor. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson. He disputed his contempt somewhat between sexes here yesterday when he spoke of the eruption in general. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Hv. A senator, chairman of a professional professional committee, has said that he has taken up his task as a result of the project, that we have only scourging on a professional committee. I'd like to say this here in a pantua, but not just at the Parliament's Committee that I'm deeply concerned that we, although fine professionals, have no knowledge to appreciate what geologic activation in Hague Lake has. This I pointed to, but there was nothing much to listen to it. [[The president calls.]] It didn't matter. We have laps in the work of a committee, in our work in this room, and I want you to know that we've never been able to function like a project management in a frame plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u41	V.E.G. President. Here we go. A senator on the front of a public speaker speaks of the need to postpone the case because of legal uncertainty. Legal uncertainty has been eliminated by a president's decision. [[Foreground on: No.]] She's just completely out. The handling of the matter here, [[Foreground on: No.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u42	...conclusion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u43	Who has a ruling authority on the treatment of the matter before the council? Isn't that the President of the Generals?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u44	... decided. Unidentified.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u45	...in the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u46	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u47	The President's asking for a sound in the Senate Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u48	This is an amazing discussion. We can have any opinion about it, but somehow people will eliminate legal uncertainty about handling matters at the council. That's a decision. There's no one else in charge of this than the President. What exactly are people talking about? [[Foreground on the President's conference board.]] Yes, but the President has issued a ruling. [[Taken out in Polish.]] No, you're building on reconciliation. This is similar to the case of a court case, if people are not happy, they are to cancel because there is some uncertainty because there is someone other than the courts. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] We are in a state of chaos and nonsense, but for me, you may proceed in a summer's time. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u49	A respectable president. I'm just gonna take a look at the President's conference board for word. 2.m. Reykv.. The path to the program "umount" I've noticed that in the best of the language, there's nothing wrong with that. A senator is usually attacked, not by the discussion itself, but by the platform. If it's government radio, something's gonna say. A senator is not in a position to charge the State Radio. If an assignment is carried out in Iceland's University, who would have the nerve to teach this kind of thing? And then, of course, the money. Then, when we are discussing a meeting board for very legitimate reasons, the weather may well come. A senator's right to discuss these things at all. In some way, it is always necessary to silence those who speak but not deal with the physical aspects of what is discussed. [[Up front.]] I've noticed this very clear pattern in a beard. Senator. I find that disturbing to say. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] This reminds us a lot of powerism.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u50	Paint.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u51	Then I suggest. A senator comes in a pita and explains - she's done with her time, and I'm also a respectable president. [[Time's up.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u52	A respectable president. All across Iceland, we are now calling for the lowest wage in the country to be corrected. Under these circumstances, the government is best able to reduce taxes to the lowest paid people in the country. It can add child support to children's families, rent rent to tenants, reduce income taxes on the lowest groups, or give them a special discount. This is to be done instead of being out of control, pointing to others, and threatening legal rights. The government needs to realize that it's the thing that's supposed to be in front of it rather than in the trunk and that it's the reason for the argument. She is the one whose actions in the tax business have increased in the country. That is why they cry, and they call for the greatest compensation to the people in the lowest wage. It is her to correct her own wrongs. Another reason for this is the way the government is supposed to go is because it is important that our country's compensation is not just for people who are working. The largest group that has been left behind, who have missed all the pay box, are desperate in the country and old - age pensioners. The best way to improve the terms of these groups is to think that the government was in charge of tax measures for the lowest paying in the country. It can, for example, change the tax system to reduce the taxes of these groups and increase the child - welfare and rent pay. You see, the government is supposed to settle disputes, not create them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u53	A respectable president. It's been amazing to see the job yesterday and today at the council. It's like the theatre of the absurd. This is a filament, a smaller part represents a complete filament of speech, and wants to stop all discussion about the national job structure against the marine soil trying to beat it down at all times, and now the future of energy use will be crushed. Mobilization of renewable energy is the future gold, the opportunity for young people, and makes Iceland one of the most attractive countries in the world to invest in the future. Of course, the richness of energy is the future of our young people. This discussion calls the chairman of the United Nations a vain discussion, an empty subject, when talking about the future of young people in the country and the opportunities to increase the amount of electricity that gives us, of renewable electricity for which all the nations are seeking. [[The point is, that's what it's giving us.]] That was exactly what the Independence Party wanted during the last term, wanting to apply the results of a system of things that they agreed on. What happened then? Then the last government changed its decision and, of course, had full authority to do so, just as this government and this council have to change the outcome they received.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u54	Follow the law!
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u55	We need to keep on doing this. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] A football game has the same rules on both sides of the field, and so is it in this game. Let us keep that in mind. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] Let us be careful, walk in the field, and show respect for one another in the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u56	The president prays for a sound in the hall and for a sound to be given to speakers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u57	V.E.G. President. Now we hear of the bank's profits, that the Land Bank's profits have increased by 50%, and Arion's profits have increased five times when all accounts are taken into account. According to the news, Iceland's bank's profits have been drawn from year to year. The interest of banks in the first three months of the year is 26.7 billion. Keeping that profit out of the year is talking about over 100 billion, which is 100,000 million - indeed, 100,000 million. There are 1,923 million a week and 274 million a day. These figures correspond to a 20% increase over the course of the year. How interesting it is to see those high profits on the bank! Recall that during the winter, the Séllabann reduced the steering growth that was growing in interest of the three business banks. The banks all dropped interest, but the interest in loans was much higher than the interest on loans. No doubt that decision makes the banks a major profit. The banks have also increased their services and have increased their currency for services granted. For example, looking at profits at Arion Bank shows that an increase in profits due to increased services is 20%, compared with the same period in 2014. So this profit of banks comes directly from the homes of the country, which is completely unacceptable. It is evident, on the basis of these statistics, that there is considerable scope within the banks to help with their customers, the home of the country. It is time for the space that is used, among other things, to provide lower rates of growth and lower service, and to issue the list that has been added in the past few months. Seeing these high profits at the cost of domestics makes me taste so bad. This is not possible, and this is what we have to do here. I'm going to take a little pirata at the end and say, "I finally suggest that insurance be taken away from consumer loans. That would be a major improvement in the home of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u58	Mr. President. I was thinking about moving on with what I talked about yesterday and dealing with high school together in the country. It is very serious when after today's meeting, the headmasters of several schools in the Northland were told at the Ministry of Education, that there is a large area of community unity. It's a serious matter. The minister of education of Illugi Gunnarsson allows himself to go this way without discussing it at the council or with the General and Education Committee. The request report is now to be performed. We know that this has been determined by what is said. This is to be done, and it is, therefore, precipitating such a fair report. The headmaster of the University of Gravitors has quit his job. No answers have been made about whether to hire a new schoolmaster. It's all at the same well. When you seek clear answers from the Ministry of Education, you can't get them. A respectable president. We have to talk here at a council meeting like this. It is not to talk about uniting schools in the capital area except when it comes to uniting Kingdom School as a private school, there is the highest personal interest. Education minister forwards, but in other respects, it is not to unite schools that are comparable. The minister has not answered questions. paritaprevir Katrín's daughter, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, on these matters, a unit plan in high school, which is very unhappy and would have had to be done. I repeat, this is unacceptable. I hereby formally request, most respectable president, that an open meeting be held in the General and Education Committee at the highest level. The minister will answer these matters. [[Open the door, hear, hear!]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u59	V.E.G. President. I wanted to have a word with you. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, director of the professional network, due to the position of the macro-programmer on the committee. It has been observed by visitors who have attended the Committee and the reviews that everyone is really unhappy with this bill. It has been published by the Committee, including my questions to the party on what they want to do with the bill, that most people have come to the impression that it is best to leave it, days to live. The national relationship between small boat owners has pointed out, and I agree that this is very unfair to them because they started fishing late and mackerels have been such as Westerns, Norwegians, and Easterns have very little fishing experience. This is also true of the big parties who feel that it is a unfair trade if this route is gone. It overlaps the fishing laws outside the Icelandic waters and the fishery laws, i.e. how to do this if that way had gone. Nor is this bill about how many years it is to become if the mackerel is divided, the number of years is never mentioned. Thus, this can be distributed unchanged, assigning it to one year at a time. That's why I was going to ask. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson whether he's not ready, such as the other evil case, the natural pass, in which he publicly published his death certificate on that bill, to publish such proof for the macrotic bill as well. [[The president calls.]] It seems to me like you're receiving a similar deal, you're getting worse, you know, a bill you shouldn't finish. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u60	A respectable president. Of course, out of this macrolire, a minister was a problem, especially in the light of the fact that the last government, which, in effect, established a particular exchange of documents without having resolved, was in conflict with the current laws, whether in relation to the fishing law or the fishing law. A minister is trying to follow a new route that he hopes to lead to further reconciliation and to a shorter time, six years old, based on the fishing experience of the past few years. Since then, we have experienced the response of stakeholders, whether to a representative of small boat owners or larger types, and to the telecommunications in the community. A minister has established this in the media that it is important to try to settle matters. As we all know, it is what we are going to do in this fishing business, although the road was difficult. It is our job assignment on a professional committee, where there is trouble. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller has been with me at many meetings on this matter, to see if we can come to some conclusion in agreement with a minister and others who, in time, can lead to a conclusion that we can work on while looking for a greater degree of reconciliation. How best it will be, I can't figure it out right now, but I just agree with the minister's agreement to look for ways to go. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u61	Mr. President. Yesterday, the chairman of the United States moved, huh? paritaprevir PállÁrniÁrnason What will be considered in the next article? He pointed out that the big issues we deal with these days, about the nation's resources, were obvious to the Constitution and the guidelines it would not be able to achieve. This is made clear in the discussion of the mackerel language that is now in progress. The job board and the discussion of a frame program on the program of the Parliament today, with controversial changes made from the majority of the workaholics. Subscriptions are now being collected to seek out the President of Iceland that he did not confirm the macrovoratation laws and indicators in national terms of every law approved by the General Assembly where fish resources are ordered for longer periods than one year while no provision for national possession of resources has been placed in a constitution and the nation has not been paid a sufficient price for their use. It is unacceptable, Mr. President, for us to have it under one man no matter how many signatures may be used, and for us not to have clear rules about how the people of this country can decide to take sides with us. The Conspiracy Chairman reminded us yesterday that there is an open window in the next year to change the Constitution into a solidarity at the General Assembly. The possibility is to make good use of ourselves and, under the lead of the Board of Directorates, put the suggestions on the program of the Parliament and on national legal requirements for the 2016 election. It is important, Mr. President, that we do not let this slip through our hands but take control of the situation as long as we have the opportunity.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u62	V.E.G. President. I'm going to have some food for you. Hv. paritaprevir Ragnheiður, the daughter of Ríkharðsdóttir, took the case up here this week at the highest. Seafood and agricultural ministers. I'm going to go back to the question that turns to the study of changing the supplies and the prices that have been placed on imported foods. General management practices in foreign trade where the effects of tolls on consumers are mainly seen at higher prices. Hv. Jón Þór Ólafsson took the subject into consideration in his speech and quoted, among other things, the report of business management and the inefficiency such customs create for consumers and producers. An example from the Summit of Business Control shows that vegetables and fruit that do not enjoy protection are 12% lower than in other countries in the North, for example, for comparators, but cheeses with customs protection are 38% more expensive and 59% more expensive. It is mandatory that this should be taken up or down tolls without disrupting the competitive position of the national manufacturer, which would greatly increase the legal resources of the country. The experience of degradation of plant customs in 2002, with significant reductions in consumer prices, shows that this can be done. Business agencies claim that food prices can be reduced in Iceland by 6%, which would amount to less than 80 levels. K. reduction of food expenses per family per year. V.E.G. Minister acknowledged that the system is a multi-discrimination and complex system, and I agree with it at the highest level. Ministers that it is important to reevaluate the system with the emphasis on the uniqueness of Icelandic food production, as well as the attitude of consumers. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u63	Mr. President. Some have wondered when they have listened here to the government's advocates for a frame plan whether they even got into a time machine and drove back to the 1960's or 1970's in their argument for the old industrial policy. You're hoping you'll ask. If we look at this in a national context today, and I began to look at numbers in those topics, it is that way, even though it passed by the management team or at least by the size of the board. Jón Gunnarsson, the country's largest currency industry has become travel and transportation. We can estimate that the income of a travel service will be at about 320 to350 billion dollars. This year. It is estimated that about 80% of the quality will remain in the Icelandic economy, leaving the tourism at 260-270 billion dollars. The net in the Icelandic economy. Number two is the fishing road, which has about 270 billion head of currency a gross last year and a similar recovery rate for the Icelandic economy, i.e. about 80%. This means that the ocean surface leaves 2151⁄220 billion U.S. ... ina net currency. Number 3 brings in the aluminium business with 227 billion currency last year, but only about 35% of it remains in the Icelandic economy. That means that the industry is giving us a net of 4,75,480 billion in currency. Yet, in 2015, people speak as if nothing has changed, and it would probably be a matter of turning aside completely from the Icelandic nature and the interests of tourism as if it were an extra factor when the reality is that it produces more or three times as much currency as before. Are men inside the modern world, Mr. President, who still perform their language like this? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u64	A respectable president. In view of today's conflicts with the division of the nations, it is reasonable to ask: " Why are we in this position? I would like to trace some factors that have played a key role on the part of the government in creating anxiety and conflict in society and increasing tax discrimination by the people under 250 of you. K. nothing has been made out of government tax change unless tax elevations in the form of a tax tax tax, and they have been best used in many ways. We can also see that 25% of homes with financial expenses have not received a dollar from the large debt transfer. A fourth home, however, that has prices for housing, tenants, or residents at home, has not been paid a dollar, even though the rest have received money from a government fund. Of course, this causes dissatisfaction and division in society. The reduction in resource costs, where it is also obvious with the macrollar bill that the government's intent is to give some the benefits of our common resources. You can take action, and the government can act. We need to reexamine. They are now one third of the highest in recent governments. Investments must be made, tenants should be equal to those in property camps, and major efforts in building social facilities need to be made. There is detailed recommendations on all of this, the detailed suggestions of the UN on the role of social housing, and it is only a government failure to do something about these matters. Finally: We need action on tax matters that are useful to underpayers and pensioners. They have been left behind in all the government tax changes during this terms and have only carried an additional burden with an increase in food taxes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u65	A respectable president. When the government began its reign, it said: The government will seek to activate the nation's controversies and to counteract the divisions and suspicions that have characterized Icelandic politics and discussions for some time. Now it's so time that the government sitting here is entitled to the government of War and Convergence, and we've never seen anything like it. The government of war and divisions is what it will be called. And in the shadow of that government, I would like to congratulate the staff of the Fish Room, staff who have faced the attack of their own Minister. They rejoice, saying: Many people have been unsure about their jobs, having families and children. A heavy weight has been lifted off such people. This is a state agency in Iceland, the government that set out to counteract divisive suspicion. This same government has a minister of education, which is a long time abroad, but it is at the same time an attack against the high schools all over the country. Do you think it's time to unite the High School in the Northland West and the High School for Isfjordur? Is it possible to unite the University of High School in Akureyri and the University of High School at the Grinch and High School in Húsavík? We've heard of it. But does the General Minister of Education answer? No, because he's a minister of education in the government of war and divisions. It is not enough to be the burning labour market. It is one minister after another, attacking his own agencies and his own litigations. A member of this government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u66	V.E.G. President. Earlier in the discussion, it was said that the young people and the future in this country were extremely important, and they linked to a framework and the protection and use of energy resources. This would be correct if we were talking about protection, as well as usefulness, because young people do not expect all resources to be removed now as long as they are young. They want to have a chance to live in a country where their life span can later be activated. Hv. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson doesn't realize that just now, last year and this year, is Iceland's fugitive. Last year, 760 Icelandic citizens left the country beyond those who arrived in the country. During the first three months of this year, there are 370 Icelanders. It's all grown back after the first shock since the collapse. As we discuss the future of young people in Iceland, which is of utmost importance, there is here a disintegration of a group that has always been solidly united, which is educational. And this is done without our having any chance to discuss it at any time. A general assembly, with no answers from the highest level. Minister. Today's visibility is the headline, with the permission of presidents: the media Illugi not answered but reminds us of the importance, which then is found somewhere abroad. At the same time, he has not answered questions from the individuals here who are in trouble. A top-of-the-art Board of Education, whether it's a unit of schools, a college in the Northwestern district, or about the loans where e-mails are not answered, where there's a lot of work going on in collects and other things. There are conflicts in high school because there's a cut-off there, there's a cleaning crew at Aquilin, a reduced number of teachers, all because there's a cutoff from this government at school. [[The president calls.]] They're putting down the high school in Hafnarfjörður, they're uniting school. We have no idea where or how to do it, no information about it. [[The president calls.]] Never can it be said in modern Icelandic society that we do not have a political policy discussion at the General.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u67	A respectable president. This may have been a special setting, but let us be absolutely aware that tourism is one of the basic roads of the nation. There are tremendous possibilities. I think we should bear in mind, however, that she is not on her own. It is a misunderstanding if you think that there is only a negative effect of tourism activation, only when you are looking at fellow workers for visits, such as Kálælna's activation, if that is the case. On the other hand, we should be careful not to harm things that are of great value and, hopefully, closer to common agreement. For example, I think it's a really bad idea to put electrical lines over the highlands, so I don't take any deeper in the year when we talk about it. However, I was going to come here and say a surprising memory that a trade union had criticized a surgeon for doing his job. A surgeon is a health care institution and has one role or at least his main role is to ensure the safety of patients. When it comes to the warning given by a surgeon, this facility does not make it a joke. If someone is going to criticize it whether it is a trade union or something else, the person must give a logical reason for it. The nature of the case, according to one authority, no one has achieved perfection in office or in any other place, but the union must have reasons to criticize the surgeon for doing his job. I'd like to draw attention to it and say I'm pleased with a representative, i.e. Yeah. Councilmen of the Independence Party on a welfare committee, to have asked to present this issue at a time. A welfare committee, an extremely important and top priority, i.e. The safety of patients, and I hope that they and other members of the committee will follow this issue there closely. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u68	A respectable president. Looking at the scene, it is very obvious to me that the current government was not prepared to take over when she accepted elections in 2013. Of course, when people accept new jobs, they cannot be expected to jump into them. It takes time to apply what is involved in the work so that we can do good work. So there can be a time for a specific adjustment or such. In the case of the jobs I know in the media, it is usually three to six months, and after that you expect a new worker to succeed, like the already existing ones. I imagine that becoming a minister or prime minister is something that men may even expect to take six months or years to achieve, but I feel that the present government has just not mastered its task after two years of ruling. I feel that all the big things that the government was going to do or that the government was going to do are building a beach somewhere outside of the council, and that is evident, for example, in the committee I work in. There are various problems in which it is obvious that no consultation or conversation has taken place between different schemes. There is no coordinated task management within the government. That is why it is sad to see the situation today, that is, first and last uncivilized government that comes to power and has failed to control its work. [[The president calls.]] So I mention one example of my case in support of the policy of nature, after two years of inexhaustible work by one minister, all of it was in vain.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u69	A respectable president. I couldn't really get a word out of my mouth right now. paritaprevir At the end of her talk, Lára Arnardóttir, said that she was going to be a raffle, and she suggested that the prices of consumer loans be taken care of. That's the policy of the Agency, the policy of the company now in the Presidency Ministry, the Department of Housing and beyond. I don't think I'm going to give up my views or put words into their mouths because of it. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson's repetition is just because he has not been heard with his emphasis. It's very peculiar when a senator has a party that owns the Council of Presidency and the Supreme Court. The prime minister sees that there is no plan for decommissioning insurance and thus comes up here, like old Kató, in faith in the power of repetition, and is singing in an effort to get an audience that the price of insurance on consumer loans. It just tells us exactly what the government's position is and what the situation of decommissioning insurance is. Will men like me when the current social and housing minister repeatedly told us in this chamber in favour of the last election that the will was all they needed? If the will is all it takes to tell me now, two years after the same party came into power and hasn't finished this case, that he doesn't have the will to do it, he doesn't have the will to finish the case, if it's the word we're talking about right now. Secretary of society and housing. I think this reflects a little bit of the position the government is in, as a matter of course. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall described earlier. No one knows what other people are doing, they have no idea where they're going, and members of the council are having to come up here with a plan to get an audience of their officers. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u70	A respectable president. The Council's work was discussed earlier. 7. South, Ásmundur Friðriksson, who said there's a filibuster here. I'd like to point my tail. A senator, like I've pointed out why. 2.m. s.. As an example, that there have been a lot of arguments here yesterday and today about how the Generals meeting is being held. The controversy is clear for all, and it would be one very simple way to end these complaints by taking matters off schedule and discussing matters that the Congress wants to discuss. There are such issues. Now there are only a few days left of the council and instead of focusing on the issues, and of course, the struggles that are overwhelming and that will continue unless something great happens, we are discussing a frame plan. It's not okay. The reason we come back and forth in a pit to complain about it is because it's not fixed, it's a problem. [[The president calls.]] What are we gonna do, Mr. Honorable President? Why don't we just shut up? Why don't we be comfortable with our seats when the convention program is completely out in the field?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u71	A respectable president. This caught my attention when I was prepared for the council, two of the candidates approached me. They have often had considerable numbers in common and have been well - thought - out about life. Now two senators spoke. paritaprevir Elsa Lára Arnardóttir. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, and both completely avoided talking about today's heat issues and yesterday and did not comment on their attitude toward the environmental minister of the Agency and the government or on the Supreme Court's position. Minister of Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson on the same matter. The house contains the following exposés: Hv. Councilmen Einarsson, Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir, Páll Jóhann Pálsson, Frosti Sigurjónsson, and Vigdís Hauksdóttir, watching the clock, and the highest. The Environment and Resource Minister Sigrún Magnúsdóttir as well as the highest. Prime Minister Davíð Gunnlaugsson [[The president calls.]] It would be interesting to hear it from people, their attitude toward the politician that these people have entrusted to the affairs of the environment and nature in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u72	A respectable president. I can't help but say the last one. Senator. It would be an honor to receive Dr. Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, the planning economy, and the highest. Prime Minister, to come here and review their professional views on these priming plans. Here was an excellent proposal for the President's conference board earlier today, which was to interrupt this meeting or to close it just now at 4:30 when people have gathered outside the house to share messages and opinions to members of Congress on the matter that has been pressed on the program. Perhaps it would be there for us senators to go out and talk to people about this subject. In addition, there is a sacred day tomorrow, a display day, and perhaps normal for this day to be completed in the Councilship that has been held in committee meetings since this morning. I urge the President not to spend more time on this nonsense but to end this meeting today and try to use tomorrow to make some sense of the program on Friday. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u73	A respectable president. Under this team last night, there was a drive. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson up and was quite content with himself and proud of it, in fact, surfing with pride, having found a slant on Hague Lake and that this activation had been given the highest grade in a project management program. When men began to examine the nature of the matter. A senator found that he had managed to find a subject of professional management and apparently misunderstood the whole matter. It is no wonder that when you bring up the adjustment proposals that have been discussed when you're based on the same level of ignorance in the framework laws as you can see. This gives us reason to consider the whole matter very carefully here in this discussion. It shows that it's very deformed. This is serious because it involves a permanent change in Iceland's nature, in many valuable places. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u74	Mr. President. The next case at the council program that the President of the Parliament has made and can move as he pleases, is a suggestion that the Council should conclude that environmental and resource ministers are in violation of law, i.e. According to the Ministry of Ministers. This is not particularly wise. The above - mentioned problem is overwhelming dissatisfaction, and men cannot allow it to be treated this way, even though Jón Gunnarsson was. Chairman of the board, would have done everything right. Furthermore, the newly held president of the Generals is also viewed as a matter of opinion. I'm generally pleased with what the president said about the Congress resolution, that it was not a matter of limiting the changes made by members of Congress to them, that's good; yet this conclusion is that the council concluded that the Minister violates law - in the opinion of the Ministry of Minister. What will you do next? Is there a legal option for all of this activation? [[The president calls.]] That's what it looks like. The chairman wants it. This isn't a good case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u75	Mr. President. After the last election, the May 1 march was a special green flag with thousands of people, people who were concerned that with a new government, there should not be a national guidelines. These concerns have become reality, and people with green flags are now entering the east field of those words because people want them to be acting protocols. I'd like to, Mr. President, before the discussion of the next session begins, get more support to why the Environmental and Resource Ministry assessment is that the treatment presented here is not in accordance with the law is ignored and the case is still deemed mandatory. I thought it was our job here to make laws, not ignore them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u76	A respectable president. I'm going to agree with that wish, and also deny that there will be a recession in this meeting so that members of the council can go out and talk to people who are gathering in the Eastfield to protest what is planned here. I think it's time for this council to show that they can listen to what they're saying because there's no evidence to suggest that, at least... not that the management part does. I also feel that much has been said about the matter. Councilmen on the pro board, huh? The members of the council of Pálsson's son Jóhann and Jón Gunnarsson, yesterday during a discussion that would indicate that this case would be referred back to a committee. It is obvious that the majority of the committee have been unconscious at the meetings of the Committee when discussing this matter. A person has no idea what turns up or down in this process called a frame plan, such as the why. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall went okay earlier. [[The president calls.]] I think they've just decided to handle this case from the Committee with these adjustments without knowing what they were doing, and then the Environment Minister comes and corrects them. [[The president calls.]] This case doesn't belong in the Senate Hall. They were to go back to the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u77	A respectable president. I think that's what we're talking about. paritaprevir The Helgi of Gunnarsson's son should be able to participate in this discussion, as this case has long been established in the council. One of the main issues of the Independence Party before the last election was to get a frame plan together, jump up where the former government changed the conclusion of a framework that the Independence Party agreed on. I don't think anyone in this hall should be surprised that this matter was taken into the council by the end of the council. We should try to learn to take it with such a modest manly act and try to win the case, don't make a show of speech, and stop all the work. You see, it's not possible. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] You can't do this work. I may not have been at the council long enough to be so depressed as to want to stop my job at this remarkable workplace. It's important that we finish our job. Most of the time, the decision was made to continue with this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u78	A respectable president. This has been a good consideration for the vast ignorance of a major part on the job board. It has been logical, and the reason is eager. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson sails with his eyes closed following the chairman of the committee. He repeatedly comes in a talk chair and has a copy of all that is left of it. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson says, some kind of redesign or play show that is about repeating it as a matter of course. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson says. The head of the Parliamentary Party is also a professional committee. Has she shared in this discussion? No. She specifically spoke of it at the meetings of the council groups that she was going to be here and listen to the discussion. Has she been here? No. Why not? Why is Senator Egilsdóttir Engels' daughter not involved in this discussion? I'd like to say, sir, a respectable president, to require number one is that we stop this discussion here and now because it's gone too far. Kraf Number Two is that if we are going to continue this discussion, it will be at the highest level. Environment Ministers sit here and participate in the debate and the chairman of the Council of the Agency, as well. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u79	Mr. President. It surprised me both today and yesterday when three of the six agents were there. The employment committee arrived in a pita and seemed to base their proposal on what happened during the last term with a frame plan. They say that because it was changed by the government, they are doing the same. There's a big misunderstanding, and a very serious problem. Business committee members have not studied the story. First, it was not a project management that organized the priming options. It was the chairman of a project management and the chairman of a professional committee that it did, and that conclusion was sent in a reporting process. There were over 200 reviews, and the reviews of something new were made, and the project management had not previously discussed were taken aside and based on Congress resolutions. [[The president calls.]] In case of a moment. Councilmen have not studied this story, trudging in errors and Sikhs, and building their proposals on some nonsense, but there is yet another reason to take this matter off the program, a respectable president. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u80	A respectable president. If freckles, bullying, stiffening, and crossball are maleity, I'm not entirely sure that I want to be taught by that term. I'd say it's courage, though, if that's what it is. A senator was here with masculinity, to come up here, to participate in the discussion, and to answer objective questions about the legal rights of the adjustment proposed by more than a part of the employment committee has proposed. Here, for example, is one question. I think it's quite available to the highest. the current environmental minister and, indeed, the current environmental minister would very much like to activate all the lower parts of the Year, all the active structures available there. Why did the minister not propose a synonym with the three activations? Why didn't he? This is because it would not have been in harmony with the law. [[The president calls.]] This is because the project management had not completed a discussion about two of the three activations, therefore he could not contribute this. [[The president calls.]] Of course, for the same reason, members of the Parliament cannot submit the needed changes. [[The president calls.]] It's a matter of business. Now, be brave. Parliamentary wonder - well, a wonder, it's a new word, isn't it? þm. Ásmundur Friðrksson, and answer this question. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u81	A respectable president. [[The point is, why did you say...?]] I don't know exactly what to do. 7. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go! That's what he's saying when I take the Independence Party policy out of manhood. I can't figure out what it is. A senator means and, in fact, refuse me personally to put up a response to policy in some sexual function. Away from that, my discussion was about the President's conference board earlier in order to explain that when people come here and complain that there's a problem here, they've either not observed what was going on yesterday and today, or they don't have any ideas to figure out how to solve this problem. There are some very simple solutions to the lengths in this country. One simple solution is to stop putting on a program that everyone knows is going to blow up the council. That's one solution. One is to give a smaller section of the council the authority to make a case in the national law, that would certainly change things in this town, I think, for the better, I'd like to add. [[The president calls.]] I'm blowin' up, a respectable president, about filibusters. We're just talking about a meeting board because the conference board is off. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u82	Mr. President. I come up here in the name of manliness, and repeat my words, if they have not been heard or understood. Here is a synopsis proposal for a new priming option into a frame plan. There is also a motion made by the greater part of the Parliamentary Committee to increase these initiatives. As to this, the Environment Ministry, by permission of the President, says: Therefore, the Environment and Resource Ministry's assessment of the law of No. 48/2011 does not assume that the General will be able to change the category of these costs since the legal process of protection and energy efficiency has not been established in this respect. This is what I want, Mr. President. Why has the Senate's president decided to ignore these words of the Ministry and consider the adjustment to the council? [[The president calls.]] It's not known to me, and I suggest that the discussion be postponed until the bottom line is resolved.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u83	A respectable president. It has been found that the members of the council were in trouble. The employment committee was surprised by the decision that the Environment and Resource Ministry had been issued in November. Like a snooze. paritaprevir Sigríður Ingadóttir went to court in this. There's more evidence that men were completely unconscious in this committee work in the greater part because they didn't even realize it, after all this month's discussion, what the procedure around the framework is and then revealed their ignorance in a speech chair last night. There are so many reasons why this case should be brought back to the committee. Then I'll come to the last one. It is also found that this project, i.e. bringing in these adjustments, is in opposition to the minister himself who makes the synonym and not just in opposition to the minister himself but also in opposition to the officers of the highest order. Minister, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson. [[The president calls.]] What are we doing here in a perfect reality? When fires burn in a job market, we are in a game of trouble. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson. What for? To show some kind of masculinity? A respectable president. Without a doubt, there are few real men who want to identify themselves with the manly men that have been introduced in the past. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u84	The President reminds the senators that they have only one minute to discuss a meeting with the president. In the past, the president has mentioned that he has a real problem with beating the night and blowing the bell out of consideration for those who are listening at home. So I ask senators to respect their time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u85	Mr. President. After listening considerably to the council at home in front of the TV, I understand the sound of the bell. V.E.G. The president of the Einar Kristinn Guðfinnsson of the council has talked about the work and how it is to be done and that he wants to see the respect of the council increased. He knows that this isn't happening with this part of the program, so I think it's a lousy meeting board and a reason to come in and talk about it. We work for the public in the country. Out in the East is part of that public we should listen to as we should to each other. This part of the country's public is fighting for nature among many others. Nature cannot answer for her, and it is also above us. She's eternal, we're not. It is very important that we be on guard, take this case out of the program, and prevent the destruction of members of Congress that I believe will bring their way here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u86	V.E.G. President. It's sad if a man's ability to pull into the mud, sit in the pit, and think that you can go on. I don't want to be a man to them. During the last 24 hours of the discussion, there have been an enormous number of important information on the subject we are discussing. First, the decision was from the highest. The president and all the perjury involved. A case that comes from the minister and the explanation for what you had noticed from the beginning calls for the question: Why did it hit the top? Environment Minister originally just provided one prime option? What was the argument? He didn't think he could do anything else. He didn't think he could do more. Are they going around the back to get something else? Third thing on the agenda is electrical law. Does anyone remember how that bill first came into the council? Does anyone remember being avoided by local societies? The Power Department was to have an electronic or system plan developed, it was to be self-examined, and it was never to be started before the council. I think that when we began talking about it at the council, men were much different, and they brought the problem to my attention, since it was reinstated and fixed. [[The president calls.]] That's what needs to happen here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u87	A respectable president. Earlier, I directed an important question to the þingmundur. I'm thinking about being a member of Congress myself and answering the question as I can see it. I asked, "Why did it come to the top? " Environment Minister merely proposes a single activation option, Invasion, although having even sent a special letter to the Management Board on a programme to speed up work to evaluate all three benefits in lower waters? In spite of the obvious will, I think, to say, that at all three positions in Þjórð, the Minister could just propose a whale operation. For what? Because the project management, the professionals, had not finished professionally. The legal way had not been carried out; it had not been completed. [[The president calls.]] The minister is bound by the law. So are the senators.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u88	A respectable president. Here, people have decided to put an enormous issue on the program. Because it is a very controversial subject, it has been tried to establish a certain channel for reconciliation. I must read here from the government's policy declaration, which has been done more than once in this sermon: The government will seek to activate the nation's controversies and to counteract the divisive and suspicions that have long been marked by Icelandic politics and discussions in the community. The progress and improved standard of living in Iceland have been based on cooperation and cohesion, and for the future Icelanders will continue to work together on the main projects of society. You must ask: " Where are men likely to write this text? And what did they mean with him? It's getting corny. I'm sure I'm the 20th senator who'll read it right here. Do they mean anything by this? I think it's all very strange, and I would like those who wrote this text and explained what they were thinking. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u89	A respectable president. It doesn't matter what people think about fortresses or environments, they can all agree that it's absolutely unannounced to make major decisions about new activations by one conference, no work by committees, no expert reviews, no publicity. No matter how many people feel about fortresses or environments, there is no need for a meeting board to decide that one of the biggest falls in Europe, Uryrofos, Laxphos, with one discussion in the General Assembly, and no treatments on committees, no reports, and no equipment. It doesn't matter whether people are creativeists or environmentalists, it's simply not acceptable to intend to attack Icelandic nature with just one debate at the General Assembly. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u90	Mr. President. It's just a matter of doing this professionally. I've spoken to a lot of senators, both in the management team and in the smaller parts, and there's a lot of conflict in this. The Directorates feel that the project has been stalling, and then you hear elsewhere: Yes, but it was detracted to the Commission so that they could not do the job properly, etc. A key factor is to find some common agreement on this matter so that a long - term conference on this important issue can be made possible. I have not developed a view of these initiatives. I have no idea. It's not my priority to do that. On the other hand, what matters is that it is done in a professional process by those who feel that this is important and that they are allowed to come to the table. It's a decision that concerns all the people of the country. That's what matters. That's not what they're doing right now. This is now being introduced into legal uncertainty, so the Council may accept a synonym, at least According to the Environment and Resource Ministry, a minister's violation of the law. [[The president calls.]] What's to be done with it? You don't think it's going to be charged, do you? Of course. Of course, this will be charged. Then it's all going to the court. How long is this sitting there? [[The president calls.]] It'll just be the prime case in court. What kind of message does it send to the world about the tactics we have in Iceland? [[The president calls.]] How much? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u91	V.E.G. President. Here's what we're gonna do. Councilmen repeated comments on the program at the highest level. President on national protection and energy use programmes and resources. It's a huge controversy, it's always been. It is the twofold, the material discussion that needs to take place regarding the conclusion that has originated. A professional health committee. We need to deal with this. Indeed, on the legal side, the president has decided that the matter is being arranged. I'm just looking at it that way right now. That's the situation. Surely, then, we can continue with that program. That's what they've decided.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u92	Mr. President. I know the President is really interested in the respect of the council, but I'd like to ask the President if he thinks it's likely to increase the respect of the council or why. Congress officials gain respect and confidence that has been lost by conducting a convention program in the manner that is being conducted. The president can be aware that we will never allow the approval of a new proposal in a single discussion, a form of cross-cutting and cross-cutting laws on a framework adopted here in a transverse convention in 2011. We never let it through, so the president knows that the next few days at the council will be like that day and yesterday.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u93	Mr. President. It's the highest. Einar Kristinn son of Guðfinnsson, who holds the council hostage by the decision he considers attractive, but many of us in the government stand cast doubt and hold political color. He was determined to reach some conclusion that would suit the proposal of a greater part of the employment committee. Unfortunately, that's what it looks like. There's no one above being criticized, and I believe this is a criticism. There are too many holes, and as people more frequently read this decision, it becomes more evident that it is not fully developed, as it puts it to the highest level. Einar Kristinn son of Guðfinnsson himself has some doubts. In view of this, when we know that there are many other matters that we can handle, at least, that are not acceptable. that the work does not get upset. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u94	A respectable president. I have to ask the highest. Mr President to see if I'm here in a speech or in the President's conference board because I'm missing the amount of time - it's been corrected and it's now 20 minutes. Me and the Icelanders have not the same measure as other nations have temples, palaces, and castles. When it comes to buildings with historical and cultural references, we can offer to the Hallrimur Church, which, of course, is majestic but is very small compared to what our neighbors have to offer. But we have wonderful nature. It's our pride, not only when it comes to showing it to tourists who come home to us but also for us to enjoy, our movements and outposts and to come in contact with things that have not been roughed for thousands of years, not only with nature itself, because the natural nature of Iceland's natural nature is different and ever so changing, as we know. If we go on a small trip that has to do with the activation options and then we go up the Fed 1, and then we turn right into the Aarnes and pass through the Aarnes and bend into the torrent valley, we see the Injords coming down the Turbine Valley. In the background, there is Burds, and behind it is the magnificent Helms, which lifts like a temple at the beginning of the region of Mountainback. And if we continue to move up the highway at Burgundy, heading toward an explosion, we are in the middle of Iceland's central highlands where the proposed Red Sea activation is located - if more than a part of the job committee becomes his wish - in the edge of the park called Lake Bay. The activations of Þjótur, at least Holts and Hahming, are all in the area we're passing by first and in the middle of the highlands. Water generation, which is also under consideration and is proposed to become a colony, is then at the start of another old nation's highland, Kjalway, at the south of Langjölkul and lies between the rootand, where Höfunds are and other good - looking mountains, Hacklön and Redfells, Thornffells, and then the Juar caps that stretch toward the east, one after the other. The activation ideas we're considering, if they become reality, are permanent changes in Iceland's nature, landscapes and experiences both for the sake of tourists and our future, for the future, that will not be undone, irreversible. That is why you would think that it is the right of every member of the council and, in fact, every Iceland, of any decision to make to make a decision that takes these value permanently from all the Icelanders, the living today and the unborn. Is that what we see? No, for more part of the employment committee has decided one-sided after previous discussions on the Parliament's led-in decision to bring Hygimenization in a waiting party, to add four activations, which will have a dramatic effect on Iceland's nature, its landscape, forever and ever. To prevent such decisions from being confused, without careful preparation, and professional assessment, we have set up a code of laws called protection and utilisation, often called a frame plan. These laws are thus made in paragraphs 9 and 10. it is reported that a special programme manager should be assigned to form a specific order of activation ideas, special categories, use, delay and protection. It recommends that the task management should give professional groups, consult specialists, consult every major group member of the press, consult with interest groups, the public, give you 12 weeks of narratives, receive comments, arguments, and opinions. It is the law code that we have created to prevent decisions from making that are unconcerned. Hence, it is tragic, tragic, to see a few individuals who take that power and believe that it is their right, feel that they are the subject, and are authorized to decide one side that it should be activated. And when asked if they have considered them to have been able to enter the task management field, the answer is: Yes. That's how we went over what was missing. And what we didn't cover for the environmental assessments, so there's no reason to worry about anything. True, the environmental assessment has never reversed the decision to put any activation option, never at any time, in the past not to be identified. So here's the letter of the law all the way to the head. And the peace that's supposed to be hidden by the laws on the framework plan is thrown into the ocean, it's all preconceived. Of course, there is a big difference between making decisions about cats, dogs, or any other thing, but when it comes to Iceland's nature and when it comes to our major valuable Icelanders, it is absolutely unacceptable that six men on the World Trade Center decide to take this power over and leave it here and then plan to run this case with perfect ignorance. Of course, this is only freckles, bullying, and violence. What a surprise it is to see that more of the council comes up here repeatedly and that they are being criticized when everyone is clear when they listen to talks! The members of the pro board, who are trying to support this crisis, might be reasoned with by the authorities as a result of a weakness. Senators have completely misunderstood the law. Hv. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson came up here yesterday and claimed that he had found proof that Hagha water activation had been done professionally, and he was very proud of it. [[Up front.]] And when people began to examine the nature of the matter. A senator revealed that he had found the opinion of one of the professional groups that the project management had appointed and that it was done, that it was just wrong that they had claimed this was not being discussed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u95	All groups had to deal with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u96	What was this prime option? He was suspended by the project board. [[Up front.]] So it is a perfect misunderstanding. Is it that way, then? The senator said that if a specialist or someone involved goes up to Lake Hague, puts his finger in the air, and accepts the wind, that professional food has been prepared, that the benefits may be set into a colony? How different it is when a person chooses to read the law in that way - in a way that is quite different! So, of course, there is nothing to be surprised that there will be a lot of talk here and will be long talking about this matter because there is no other option than that the changes made to a major part of a professional committee have been submitted. There is no other way to settle this matter. There's no negotiations if you don't. The members of the greater part of the business committee have imagined that a few will be released and that others would publish. It doesn't work that way. I imagine, because of what. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson is here at the side room, and he appeared here last November with eight ideas that the activations he wanted to attack, that he views them as some kind of poker in which the results can be courted and cast. It's not like that, because despite the desire of the government to attack more of its fortresses, it's simply that the task management of a framework has suggested that they rely on it to recommend that Inhim activation alone be suspended for use. I'd hate to be activated there, that's my personal opinion. Of course, it is based on my assessment of symbolic things such as the value of view, the value of the local experience, the manner in which we should treat our country, etc. However, I could not help but accept the transfer of Indominus reciprocation to use if it were made on the basis of the advice of a projector because you have committed yourself to it, or have all the means to do so, to think that the tool should be determined, that the course of action that has been determined... [[You didn't last.]] [[You didn't last.]] I'm gonna pray. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson to calm down a little while I'm giving my speech here so that I can finish what I want to say on this matter without interference. Of course, one would look to the legal process to be followed. This, of course, is the highest. Minister Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, made a suggestion for the use of whale rejuvenating. And this, of course, is the ultimate. Ministers of the environment, Sigrún Magnún Magnúsdóttir, are referring to the fact that she prefers the task management to complete her work, so that a professional evaluation is conducted so that all the agencies we are allowed to bring in a review so that the 12 - week process is respected, so it is done as in people, as it has been decided to do. It's just the way it is. Of course, this law code is being overlooked. And already it is. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson comes up here and says: Of course we had the job, and of course we were running the job, so we've been a kind of project control, it's just completely inadequate, but it's not gonna hold water. I miss it, Mr. Honorable President, I've spoken here half of my speech period, to the highest. The secretary of the environment is not here in the hall. I'd like that to be my request, and I'd like to think that there's a break in my speech here, to the highest. Ministers, come in here and listen to what I have to say in these matters. I think it's the least that humans can do when they're going to take action that will change Iceland's nature forever in a wonderful way that they can at least show you the respect of sitting in a Senate hall while it's being discussed. I think that's the minimum, so I'm like, "Hitstv." President. Can arrangements be made to arrange for a minister to be present?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u97	The President will make the arrangements to send a message to the minister that her presence is requested here in the hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u98	It is also of concern to witness that when a person shares in the prefect of the trade committee's talk, he has decided to use the energy that comes from the priming he is offering here in the energy - consuming industry. He has decided that it should all go into the big business, that's all he thinks he's alone. I also think it's a lot of concern when he gets to experience himself as some sort of inventor of Iceland's activation story, but there's a lot of numbers here on what might have done, etc. No one's arguing about it here. That's not the issue. What I'm worried about with the continuation of this case is that political paraphernalia is very vague. It is not clear whether it is the government's idea to comply with the changes made by most of the employment committees have suggested here. It is not quite clear, however, whether the Environment Minister is of the opinion of agreeing to the proposal that came unchanged by the Ministry or taking Hague water activation out and reinventing and allowing the activation of the Þjótur. I don't think it's clear either, I think it's the best. The minister has certainly not spoken clearly in these matters. And I don't think it's totally clear if there's more to this concept in the board. There are shouts from the hall when these issues are discussed. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir that, of course, humans will be supporting the highest order. Environment Minister, but I think that's completely vague. I think it's a little interesting when it's the highest. The Environment Minister says that after a year and a half, she prefers the project management to complete her work and to publish her findings at the same time that she is ready to allow the Uryrofos activation and Holt's activation in a colony class, because there was no advice on the task management of the Minister. It makes me feel that it's the most obvious thing to do. A minister is willing to follow the advice of a project manager when she agrees with a project management, and that makes me feel completely inadequate. That's not good enough, that's not good enough. It's either this or it's in it. Either the project management finishes, assesses the benefits, sorts them in a row, or the political bitch in the country decides how to do it. It's just that it's either. Hv p. Jón Gunnarsson comes up here over and over again and asks if it was meant to have the council just stamp the results. Yeah, that was the plan, that was the idea. I think it is absolutely clear that it was the idea, unless it was already time to obtain further data, except perhaps when it was time to move the benefits of practicality and waiting, because there is a huge difference between the introduction of the priming option or the waiting of priming options, as was done during the last term after review and the secretary's entry into the council. It is completely incompatible with what is going on here, where people's rights, institutions, and members of Congress are overlooked to take a materialistic position on the matter. A respectable president. I wish that those who take control of this country will explain how this will fit in. I request support for why this can be so, and the rationalist must be more waterproof than the decision of a president here yesterday, who does not hold water at all. It's based on so low, so weakly put out that it's not prophylaxis. I now said in a speech chair yesterday that he reminded me of Bill Clinton, in the Monica Lewinsky case where the defense rests on the sentence ◯ That depends on how you define the word ◯ it, because the President here's conclusion was that it was not clear specifically in the law of professional opinion that we will find out exactly what it is, this professional evaluation. And from then on, it can. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, of course, who is more than happy in nature protection, came up here and said, "Well, we went over what was missing and what we didn't cover - it's just the environmental assessment that controls it. It's a bad way of doing things. Here, it's just being willing to do things, it's not what the Law code says. If this is to be achieved, if there is absolute uncertainty as to what a professional assessment means, the benefits can be concluded in a way that all categorical factors are incomplete, they are not available. Then there's really everything, there's no professional assessment because they don't know exactly what professional values are, it hasn't been defined yet. Then it's just a series of things that are based on something that's basically just the air of one. When a respectable president has reviewed the whole situation with the extraordinary flubes that are involved in this decision, he concludes with the permission of a president: ▪ When it is considered in its entire body, as this has been attributed, the evidence appears to go further in that direction... If they appear to fall so far as to see that this matter cannot be dismissed!
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u99	That's a professional evaluation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u100	That's a professional estimate. President. Of course, a person can come to any conclusion, but he must ask, " Is it not completely immoral to have the natural value here on earth forever and ever in the way here to do so? ' It's completely immoral, in my opinion. And what's more, it's totally against the interests of the entire nation. It's bad for the politicians, it's bad for the council, this whole case is the government and the board is a disgrace. It is those who make such a mistake, and so it is necessary here to offer reasons for their case to have misunderstood the entire letter of the Law. A respectable president. I express great sadness in the way this matter has been held. How sad it is to witness the raw - skined speech expressed in the form of words! paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son, when he says that he wants to settle this matter, must simply stop disagreeing. Such as, what about political and intellectual maturity displayed in such declarations? It's amazing: Of course, people have to stop disagreeing with me. Of course, it would be a wish, though not to be expected that the government would decide to retract the issue. This, of course, is to be dismissed. It's not legal, it's not moral, it's not judicial.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u101	A respectable president. I thank the senator for his fine speech. I decided to come up here and ask a few questions. Right away. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson came here in the side room to shout into the hall, in my opinion, half balanceless. A senator about something that would have happened during his last term, but they seem to be based on it a little bit. I find it important to note that what happened during the last term was the following: First of all, legislation was set up here for the first time in a frame plan. The decision was made to apply the first treatment in a special preliminary setting so that they could follow some formal and approved procedure because the law had not taken effect. It was decided to send the results of the project management in a review process and to classify the heads of the professional groups, who had been returned to the minister, in a review procedure that was required in the law. Thereafter, it was clear that there were a number of comments and comments on matters that had not been discussed in the professional groups. On this basis, a decision was made that instead of the one standing here. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir, who was then a environmental minister, placed some political fingerprints on the decision to give the benefit of the doubt, and the comments were also made by moving them to a waiting party. And by moving them to a waiting party, the decision was made to ask the project management to review the comments so that we, political elected agents, would not be doing so. I'd like to ask you what. Because he was sitting here at the council then, how he experienced that process, and whether he feels that there is some foothold to it. þm. Jón Gunnarsson is saying that there was some political stunt here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u102	A respectable president. The call for office is a form of speech. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson has taken quite a step. He called out here to show that this was comparable to what happened during the last term. Of course, it is from time to time. It is far from here. What happened when men finally agreed to the order of activation was that natural protectionists such as me and others in this room had to accept the number of activation options of a species that was contrary to our liking, for example, a great number of activation options in the Smokeynes that we supplied with a special book but shared. That is, of course, because a person had faith in the work being done here. You also had faith in the fact that a protective party was being placed in a very important area that would then have come to safety. I reiterate what I said in my speech that I think it's a wonderful difference between taking a waiting class activation option and putting it into practice or taking it from a novelty class and waiting, because the first decision is final. Activation is final, it will not be taken back, but waiting means that we intend to look at things better. I'd also like to mention that earlier today, in discussions about the council, there was a problem. paritaprevir Guðlaugur of Þór Þórðarson that he was opposed to putting a line over a supernova. But there is no way to activate in the Dassian Age without there being a major electronician. How will humans solve it? Will people have a dug - down line of the central highlands to be inhabited? Clearly, it is obvious that people simply do not understand what is going on here and that they have not really weighed down what it really means to be doing. Theoretical term means that humans have the building blocks and new activations into the Lakejorkic Park in the central, highlands of Iceland. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u103	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this. If the more part that we now have at the Council, who will try to paint this case, these changes would be the work being done here during the last term, then we would still be waiting for the results of the task management. If we had done what we're doing here, it would easily have been possible to make a decision for political reasons to bring these benefits out of a protection class. This could easily have been done on the basis of the greater things involved. This was not done simply because men respected the process, so they did not want to make decisions on political grounds. [[The president calls.]] Honorable members of the Head of the Management Board, you gave up the wrong procedure here during the last term.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u104	A respectable president. I am convinced that, in time, Iceland's experience with the ideas displayed in these changes will be just as far and far apart as when it was supposed to be activated by the Golden Falls. I am convinced that at the end of time, people will look at areas such as go below Lake Hags and Uryrs, thinking: " To think, this was almost sacrificed, it was almost destroyed. ' There were real men in Iceland who were planning to destroy these areas. There were some fierce men who just wanted to take it away from all of us and do something they thought was a good idea about it because it was so manly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u105	A respectable president. Early in his talk, however, the problem arose. A senator's work into the process that this case has been through specifically mentioned that every senator, and preferably every Icelander, should have some opportunity to make a decision, if understood. A senator is correct. I would like to hear the senator's attitude and ideas on how to make this process so, first of all, that there is greater reconciliation and second, the possibility of democracy. I specifically ask, in the context of a constitution, because it is in the high Council, both the macroil case and in this matter, that we must have some clear principles, we must have a clear view of how we will conduct a decision-making on this party. And what the statement on the mackerel in common is that it seems to be in terms of a law proposed by the General and raises questions as to when the Council is starting to make decisions that are legally questionable, i.e. to law columns other than constitution. I find it very disturbing, and I wondered. There's a senator's opinion of how to generally manage these resources. Then I also refer to hydropower workers and mackerel, and thus in the big context, in the context of a constitution and in the context of the decision-making rights of the people of the country and, above all, how we here at the World Council seem to screw up the situation so as to arrange the decision process so that it makes sense. I consider this a big subject, and I want to hear as many ideas as possible in that relationship.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u106	A respectable president. It'll be very easy for me to answer this in two minutes. I just want to say that I feel that the ideas about this matter cannot be private matters for a few people. I don't feel that they can be private partners either. We are dealing with natural value, which is owned by all Icelanders, and it should be ensured in some way that everyone has access to the decision process. I just want to take it down to 10. The Act on Framework, which deals with the treatment that speaks of the work of the EEA's professional groups and reviews of the EEA, archeological protection, the Institute of Natural Science and Transport. It will be discussed on the basis of consultations and professional assistance from relevant institutions and governments and rural communities, partners, stakeholders and other agencies, with permission of a president: Then the project management should provide official information on the work. The task management programme shall agree with the EEA to ensure harmonisation of the protection and energy efficiency programmes and water management programmes under the legislation on water management. Based on the results of professional groups, the project management is providing suggestions on the classification of activation options and limitation of activation and protection areas according to the classification. It shall consult with the general public and the reviews of the facts in relevant institutions, governments and rural groups, partners and stakeholders. At the end of a narrative hearing and after consultation, the project management will take a position on existing inducers, etc., providing a minister. It's a very extensive, clear process. It is clear in the law what professional values should be and how to deal with them. The decision, therefore, must have been made to ensure that humans and people in general have access to it. That's why it's so serious that we're looking up here at all this process, because when more than a part of the employment committee takes on the role of a project management, she doesn't do anything about it, nothing. [[The president calls.]] It is the sad truth in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u107	A respectable president. Actually, I agree with what. A member of the Parliament that it in itself is clear when it comes to the law, but then the interests of someone seem to be in control, and then it may be a source of ill - treatment to the general council, unless, of course, of course, that the procedure here has been done today and yesterday there is a part of some epotic method of action with severity. A Chairman of a man. Business committee. But I always find it a little hard to believe that men are going through all this simply because of my efficiency, and I feel that there's more to it. Then we must ask: Who should make the decision? I agree with what. A senator must be his people. How can we have this process so that it is democratic? I think the discussion in the community would be much better than the discussion here. [[The president calls.]] Here we are trapped in the form because of the way we handle it, not the point of it. [[The president calls.]] I wondered how we'll fix it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u108	A respectable president. I have to admit that I've wondered about the same questions as why. A senator rolls up here. I've been wondering if it would be possible to use votes in rural society, even national pay, to make decisions about these things, because it is absolutely clear that the process that man has tried to nail down into the framework law is ruined. It is not only the conduct of the present majority of the employment committees in this case that are disappointing; it is also the fact that no protection party has been cooperated during this term. There have been no sources of peace, no compromises in any way, so the law is completely overlooked in these matters. The transfers that took place during the last term seem to be one of the greatest accidents ever to take place. þm. Jón Gunnarsson, because he uses them as some sort of villain dresser for all that he wants to do here as a contractor... [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u109	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A fine speech for a senator. I would like to adopt the column from the discussion that the senator was referring to. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson for the form and substance. I believe in myself a little that the reason we're here in terms of the form is disrespectful to the point. To hell with it. More of the council, huh? paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson and his followers, get the support of someone that matters to go through these things because there's no real respect for Iceland's nature, that's the real reason. That is also the reason. The minister of Sigrún Magnún Magnúsdóttir is left here alone on the ice last night, and not any man who defends her language because it is actually regarded as being an insignificant case of nature and environment protection, is a case that doesn't have to do well, which doesn't have to be treated with respect, which does not require proper human beings, as it occurred in the first part of the term period at the time. Secretary Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson did the Ministry on bypass. And that led to the conclusion that the same person had spoken of the rightness of putting down the Ministry. A respectable president. I think it's important that we realize that the place we are in the form is out of respect for the contents. I want to ask you why. A senator will agree with me on this, because I feel that it happens more often than not that if you start to try to distinguish between matter and content, you lose sight of the very often reflecting the position of the contents.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u110	A respectable president. This, of course, turns to it as a matter of course. A senator mentioned, but it also points to a crisis of existence in which the present government finds itself. For example, at the beginning of my last year, I was present when Buddok activation was initiated. This is the latest activation in the River, where water is used from both the Tungna and the River. There they moved to the highest. The secretary of finance said that they were just beginning, proud that they were just beginning. True, it was an induction not made by his government but by the previous government and the main part of the construction period was in the past government, but it was just beginning. Now, somehow, it has to be continued and there has to be evidence that they are the activation and industry, the same activation and industry group as they have always been. It must be shown that it is those who turn their business around. They draw out the image that it's all opposed to being done unless they, although nature protection, as I can say about "Breast Creat activation": Yes, I think it's a good procedure, it's wise to use the water that falls between Lava Falls activation, if I remember it correctly, and Sultartanga, use and activate it once more. It is a very lucrative and productive project. What we also experience is a complete misunderstanding and a lack of contact with the reality of what he is now and what is going on in the business world. That's why it sounds like speeches. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son and many independents who have discussed this matter and, in fact, also the case of progressive candidates as though they are in 1972, are quite another reality in which these men live. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u111	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. The candidate in his speech and, indeed, earlier in the discussion of the ignorance of more part of the employment committee and the fact that we are faced with the actual need to go into the stitches on the basis of the proposed proposal, because in each case after another, it is evident that it is based on ignorance of both the framework and on the elements of the argument and on the frameworks of the legislation and the procedure. When this ignorance, this vast ignorance that I allow myself to call it, then comes together with the highest degree of Icelandic freckles, we have come up with a demonstration of the Icelandic industrial policy that has been with people right from the very least of 1972. [[The president calls.]] And I want to pray. A senator who tore up only the danger when it comes together an ignorance and freckles.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u112	A respectable president. During my previous career as a reporter, I sometimes caught listeners so accustomed to performing on television that they said to cameramen: You don't have to frame me into the picture, I'll take care of it myself. That's something I can think of when I listen to it. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson because with the reasoning he's given here, we might as well assign him to take care of the environmental assessment. Can't he just take care of the project's environmental assessment because that's what's going on? He can just come in here and tell us how it's supposed to be all: I've got it all figured out, and it's fine, it's fine. And in the same discussion, we could take the President's bell and take it to our seats. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son, she would just be there, and he led the meeting out of his seat, as he would prefer. Of course, it's nothing but a freckle-calling bitch. It's a tragedy to see it, and it's a natural tragedy, too. Senators realize that this is not going to work out, that people are simply not ready to make it work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u113	Mr. President. Without a doubt, it puts a little bit in the eye when it rains. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall was giving his speech that here was predominantly a government official, why. paritaprevir At the end of the talk, Ásmundur Friðriksson joined the hall. I wonder what. The members of the administrative body simply gave up on the discussion, whether it was too difficult for them to do so. They began to complain that in the first half hour of last night, there was a problem with the ocean, and we have few talks left of their ranks, even though some of them are on the rosary. It seems odd. The members of the board have given up on giving answers. It says how this case is over and how ill - mannered it is that people don't even go through the discussion anymore, it's just given up, they don't seem to be participating. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u114	A respectable president. We are discussing a case in which the decision has been made that a petition made by a minister will be multiplied, as it were, by increasing the benefits taken to a colony from one to five. In addition, there has been an opinion from the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Employment where it is stated that this treatment is compromising with the laws on the framework. Still, people decide that the matter is so important, more important than dealing with bullies in the labour market, that it needs to be set up on a schedule, and so tommed through. But where is it? Senators? None of them are in the discussion. Nobody's sitting here defending what they're carrying. No one comes up and answers questions. The ministers are gone. Everyone's away but what. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson. A respectable president. I wish that there will be a recession at the meeting until the Environment Minister is in the house and that she will sit in this discussion because we will only discuss this once. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u115	A respectable president. It was that way for the moment to the moment. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall was finishing his talk, and under his talk, he needed the highest. President to stand up and recognize that the Minister of the Environment was being called because of this. A senator requested that. The minister walked in here and walked out. How long was that speech? A senator thought? Where's the Environment Minister? A respectable president. This discussion cannot be continued, and this lack of respect can be observed when the second discussion of two of the proposals for Congress is made. I'd like to make a requirement also, and seriously, to what. paritaprevir Also, Egilsdóttir, chairman of the Agency's House of Booths, as she promised at the meeting of the council that she was going to do and that she would be very important to hear the government's viewpoint on this matter. What did the person mean by that, a respectable president? The minister, thank you, and the chairman of the House of Booths.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u116	A respectable president. Of course it's amazing. Hv. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall did well in his speech on what this is all about. Decisions are to be made to activate in areas of nature. If activated, it's irreversible. Will those who want to live in such a way be remembered so that they have not even been in a Senate hall and have reasoned on their case when they tried to do so? It's very important. I think this matter, as well as enough, is now debated about legal matters, that it should, in any case, probably be that we do not hold up a meeting unless those in charge of this case are in place, and that they are also involved in the debate of President's decision, which is carried out in the past on President's conference board, a very controversial decision that raises many questions. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u117	Mr. President. First thing. The government and its foot soldiers have chosen to put this matter on the program, and they must follow up on their decision and be subject to the discussion presented here, which is not acceptable, whether it be council presidents, Supreme Court. Environment Ministers, and even more ministers, are also involved in more lawsuits than environmental ministers. It would be nice to have an ex-fiancée. Minister of the environment here in the hall. Heavy in protests by people who objected to these indiscriminate efforts here in the East, earlier today, it was a great and urgent call for us senators to stand up and fight for their failure to perform this task, to destroy the nature of the country, and to make haste of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u118	Mr. President. I agree with them. Councilmen here have spoken. As the members of Congress know, we can sit in our offices at both the House and other places in the East and observe, but in this large matter, I insist that these members of Congress here have spoken about the importance of being at the conference not only here, but it is extremely important that they participate in the discussion by coming, e.g. answer our questions, both in order to strengthen your own opinion and support of the matter, and to get other viewpoints. I would have called for that too. A senator and head of the trade board, Höskuldur Þór Þórhallsson, were here, because this case was to be visited by the Environment Committee, pardoned, and were to take this case into custody rather than a professional committee at the time as we discussed and shared much when the case first came up. [[The Committee of the Management Board.]] He is to be a spokesman for nature here at a council on behalf of the committee he is in charge of. [[The president calls.]] So it would be natural for him to sit here in the hall and participate in the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u119	Mr. President. We are discussing one of the greatest issues of our time in Iceland. We're discussing a six-whush change proposal. The members of the prosecuting committee and the Independence Party have submitted, and these six have been fought. Congress members believe that it is relative to the professional assessment of a project and to the highest level. Minister to present the case. They do not see fit to sit here in the hall to listen to our language. A very good speech was given here earlier. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall, and there weren't many who listened to her. paritaprevir and my country, Ásmundur Friðriksson, it's right to be able to do good, but more should be in the hall and at least at the highest. Minister. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u120	Mr. President. We will discuss this change of proposals that we have been discussing for a very long time as the Environment and Resource Ministry says the transition to the change in proposals and Senate conclusions of the Ministry of Environment and Resources and conflict with laws to be carried out by the Minister. Does the Council conclude that a minister violates law? However, the movers have reason to do so. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Egilsdóttir Eglólsdóttir, Þorsteinn Sæmundsson, Páll Pálsson and Jón Gunnarsson, chairman of the Committee. The only person in the region to discuss this subject is why. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson. Haraldur Benediktsson, the Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson and Egilsdóttir Eglsdóttir have not participated in this. Where are these people? This is a huge deal. I understand how difficult it is to sit here and try to argue that this is a good way to handle the matter, but if you're going to go this way, they can at least show that they can discuss it objectively and show that they are people who can be behind these words and participate in the conference conversation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u121	A respectable president. It is heartbreaking to see that there is no further participation in this discussion here. I don't think I've ever used the word "glorious," since this government came into power, but that's all you can think of when you watch the performance of Congress here. It is inconceivable to suggest dramatic changes in one discussion, four activations, unbelievably irreversible projects, and then not to be followed by logical support. After my talk earlier, I received some questions, all of them from people who agree with me. There was no one who came and wanted to reason with me on the subject of my speech, of those who made the suggestion. Humans simply do not have the confidence to represent and defend these. This is incorrigibly embarrassing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u122	A respectable president. I want to say in this discussion that I am happy that these people came here earlier and expressed their views on this matter. I have great respect for their opinions, and that showed a gentlemanly attitude out here. I went out here a little bit and met the people and talked to them. I just think it's a good thing. Of course, it is clear that there will be no projects in the country without any wound, we realize that. I think, really, we're all natureists. That's it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u123	Haha, no.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u124	Of course, we need to find the soft line where we're going to activate and where we're not. Regarding the rock world, it is in a barren region deep in the wilderness and almost all the construction would be underground and would be visible very little. The straggler is about as impressive as the Whale Vault. That's what you see, and then you've got a mile of bypass cut. [[The president calls.]] Thus, it is an example of a process that does not harm too much, but all projects leave a wound, that is clear. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u125	A respectable president. In case of a moment. 7. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go! I don't know what he'd call hard lines. Likewise, if it's supposed to be nature protectionists, I'm just wondering what big industrialists are. There's nothing to be made up of and pretend that there's some theoretical possibility of getting settled about this matter except by the way it was decided to follow in its own time, you see a frame plan. As long as this is the case, it's got a lot of water. The members of the greater part will be debated about its form. I haven't even shaped my view of all the initiatives mentioned here. I don't like to activate Uryrofos, but I'd like to take a closer look at other options. But that's exactly what it is, I'd like to take a closer look in line with a frame plan. It doesn't mean to pretend here are natureists on the road, a respectable president, it doesn't hold any opinion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u126	V.E.G. President. I'm here for the first time to discuss the President's conference board. I would like to discuss the importance of the reconciliation in the community and how important it is. One of the most important things in our community is peace and peace. I think it's the best decision. The general president of the Council to bring this matter into the program is not part of increasing the social reconciliation, but the situation is still bad in matters and matters. Sadly, this kind of work seems to identify our people, especially when they are taking these matters from a professional process. It was tried to create a professional process, good management, and this is part of destroying it. I'd also like to mention that in 2010 Andri Snær Magnason, the fine writer, patriot, and naturalist, wrote an article on his website called his country of the crazy men of the state of Iceland, which he passed through. I feel a little bit like I'm in that country right now, in the land of the crazy men.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u127	A respectable president. I'm here in a speech chair and I'd like men to present this proposal to be here and to hear what we have to say. I may not be about to give a talk that they must not miss, but there are points that I would like to find out. I ask, a respectable president, at least the chairman of the Committee, which is 1st aviator, to be called here. I must say, a respectable president, just as it is, I've never been in my life, and never since I've been in here at the council, it's as destructive as it is here. The decision is now being made to change and send a pact proposal, originally made by one, one priming option. with five benefits, so we have one discussion to discuss this. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. Here's a bull move. This is a bad time. [[The president calls.]] And here's some anti-cultural work going on. [[The president calls.]] This is so shameful, we're all very sorry about what we're doing here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u128	The President will see to it that it is. The head of the professional road authorities will be notified, but he would like to draw attention to the fact that these are in the house of a professional body member, from a greater part of the employment committee, and here is also at the top of the hall. Environment Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u129	Mr. President. What's so boring about this case and what we've been throwing up here when we've tore a legal ground and took this suggestion, you might say, "I'm a workaholic." This is about our attitude toward the work we do here, for if we want to respect the professional activity in our work here that has been laid down and set down in the law, we have respect for the professionals. I was one of many years old. The members of Congress who took part in here agreeing to the 63 votes that we were going to improve our practice, start listening more to professionals, start to respect the procedures that we set down in the law. I'll bet we can go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on, and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u130	A respectable president. Earlier today, the word went out that the president is holding the council hostage. I come up here under the President's conference board to say that. Passing at the highest. The president of this case is a real disappointment to me. I'm not happy with my jobs. President on this matter. I've been happy with the highest. President and his work so far in the season. I feel like he's becoming paradoxed and rigid, which I've never seen before in the work of a president. That's a big concern to me. V.E.G. The president should know that this is a very controversial matter. I feel like I am, so I witness in the speech of both. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson's son, a hostage in the course of the crazy men, and I have to say, if there isn't a change in working shape at all. I think he's doing their business. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u131	A respectable president. We've just heard a few reasons why we're here. Ásmundur Ásundur's Friðriksson for the rock 'n' roll: it's basically in the middle of nowhere, and there's not really any grass there, and the stairway will be like the Hagga tunnel. Is it then for the professional evaluation of a greater part of the employment committee in this case at the time of the Cradle? [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] This is the professional assessment of the decision-making board.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u132	It's just a way out of your way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u133	Then why don't you come here and talk. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson, and better explain. But coming up here and claiming that you're one of the nature protectionists is just like a contradiction that I've never heard anything like this. What are you going to say next? That you're an unbiased philanthropist? Feminists, perhaps? Do you know another one?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u134	Mr. President. There's a lot about saying that this case is being scheduled, as I've been over and over and ask a president if he doesn't think there were any other issues that would have been better qualified to be on this program, which could have been settled here in peace and harmony, rather than putting this case in here. It is appropriate to read only from the government covenant. By permission of the President: The government will work on Iceland's aim for global environmental and other national models of environmental protection. Do we feel that this is consistent with what is being done here? No, I don't think so. Iceland has a unique environmental position, as follows: ...in the power of unmoved nature and sustainable production of renewable resources. That image is a resource in itself. It must be developed to strengthen the image and basis for it, to protect Icelandic nature, and to promote land healing and forestry where it applies. A respectable president. That's not what much of it is. The pro board proposes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u135	Mr. President. As more people call for the head of the pro board, why. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson. He offered this dance, and he'll be at the dance. It is not normal for him to disappear while the dance still stands at the invitation of him and our president. It is only natural that he sits under the discussion and participates unless he remains under the furrows; he received a protest document of a number of people who objected to the rudeness presented at the General Assembly on a cross-border plan. Let's hope he's thinking his way, and he's going to pull this misfortune back. Hv. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson described in few words a professional process involving the Tankus, and it shows that it is not our council's task cycle to perform the professional procedure at committee meetings. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u136	A respectable president. Here we come from a major part of the employment committee under cover of freckles, violence, and I'm not going to leave it behind, violence, and I don't know what, bullying. [[Up front.]] What are we doing? We have a synonym within the committee. We're here with a new proposal that's under consideration. Clearly, there is some sensitivity to professional coverage of the proposal. [[Up front.]] Hv. Senators are coming up here in the middle of a series of times over the President's conference board. [[Up front.]] When I was in sports, I was taught that it does not mean arguing with the judge. This case has been judged. [[Up top: Oh, no.]] [[For example, consider: Are you the judge?]] The president has already judged the case - professional evaluations, yes. [[For example, consider: Get a professional meal?]] Who was the source of a professional estimate of eight different categories? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] Where was their professional assessment then? [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] Then there was little work to do. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u137	V.E.G. President. It is natural to realize that this case will not easily pass through the council. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] There is far too much at stake when humans are dealing with such issues as nature's protection and protection and use. [[The president calls.]] It always becomes more apparent, and the benefits of the discussion, however seriously thought about what is behind it. Here we go. Councilmen by Congress, and they have not read the Framework Act. Here are people who speak out in terms of finding shapes to make peace. They've already found it. This was adopted by all members of the council. What disrespect is it for the law to go against it? [[Up front.]] They were never broken, if you read the law instead of listening to someone who interprets it, which is why. Chairman of the pro board. If people read them themselves, they will realize that they had a narrative, and under law, they were changed, and they were reserved for a waiting group to look at them. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] There is no disagreement that when the matter comes from a project management, we will be involved in the process. [[Up front.]] We just can't go on with this issue unless we get it back into the framework process and stop these dynamics here, which are destructive at both council and nature. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u138	V.E.G. President. There is concern that we are discussing a framework of protection and utilisation, and it seems that members of the Parliament do not know the rules of the programme. It is so strongly said that this is a memo from the Environment and Resource Ministry that the Ministry does not consider this procedure to be in accordance with the law. On the decision of the president, I cannot quote this memo or properly comment it made. There are guidelines we're talking about. We know that some of us here have wet dreams of usually destroying all of Iceland's nature, but guidelines have been developed about how we go out there and we want them to be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u139	A respectable president. I must agree here with other members of Congress, and I would like the spiritual light of the governments in this matter. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, attend and participate in the discussion. I want to answer that as well. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson noted earlier that he and the administrative body were allowed to dwell in a group that would have violated the right course in this matter. There are no cowards. Senator, that's a direct charge. This is clearly stated on the part of us in the government position, material evidence that the administrative issue has not followed the right law on the matter. He has violated current laws regarding the handling of this important group, and he has ignored the processes he should have followed. There's evidence of the Ministry's opinion on the case. Hv. A senator must begin to realize that there is no heretics. No innuendos at all. We've been very honest with you on this matter. [[The president calls.]] We make detailed accusations that the law is being violated. [[The president calls.]] That is why there is material evidence.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u140	Mr. President. Here we go. Councilmen Páll Jóhann Pálsson and Ásmundur Friðriksson are in a fight in a pit and describe their ignorance about the history of a frame plan and the laws that apply to it. [[Up front.]] A respectable president. The speaker's got a snooty list. Councilmen who went through this process and knew it completely in and out, i.e. Yeah. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir, the one standing here paritaprevir Svavarsdóttir. I'm sure we'll all take care of this process, and I hope that it will. Councilmen here have spoken and used false reports on the history of a frame plan and what was done during the last term will listen carefully to them. They are certainly moved by pity because they were not here during the last term, but it is important that they hear the story from those who know it best.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u141	The President wants to state that because of a question about what. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, chairman of the professional committee, is expected to attend the meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u142	A respectable president. When you are well into a project or if you have followed a system or schedule for a certain period of time, it is worth asking yourself at a certain point, based on experience, whether you would put on the same rule or system if you were to start over again. The reason I am making this up is that the work here at the General for the deliberations of these cases repeatedly shows that the high Council is not able to handle this kind of case in a democratic way. That's why I've put it that way before, saying it again that when it comes to such controversial matters -- the council stops due to conflict, stops when historical debates are going on and more imminent, when there are a lot of issues that we should be wasting time on but can't because we're stuck in this -- then it's a problem, a respectable President. I'd like to ask a respectable president how he sees in his mind that we will find a solution to this serious problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u143	Mr. President. Hv. Councilmen of this change proposal, Haraldur Benediktsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, and Páll Jóhann Pálsson have entered the hall of Þórunn Eglursdóttir as well. Now we face the challenge of making adjustments. The Parliament's Environment and Resource Ministry says it conflicts with the laws on a framework adopted during the last term of all members of the Parliament, that was the frame to work on. It's only possible to change the frame if you are not happy with the box, but it was the frame to work on. The Environmental and Resource Ministry says it violates the laws, the changes they have. Congressmen I watch now have made progress. Is it not time for them to have a good time? The members of Congress just call the matter back to the Committee, and we'll discuss it there? Or are they going to contribute to the stress of a transition made by the Environment and Resource Ministry to violate national law? [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] Come on up and talk about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u144	V.E.G. President. The problem with what we're talking about here is that we're dealing with a synonym. It's taken only twice before, i.e. There are two discussions at the council, and we are in a second discussion. Then there is a proposal, which has entirely new ideas, and it is expected that we will discuss it almost without any chance of having a lot of words with those behind it, because they are often not involved in the discussion. This is thought to be a professional debate at the council. I don't think people can accept that. I want to point the highest. Presidents and professionals from a professional committee are to examine the original proposal. This suggests a single activation option. V.E.G. A minister who is in the current government, he is now a marine economist and agricultural minister, was also a environmental minister, gives this proposal, and strongly argues that he can offer no more than one priming option because the project management has not done more. [[The president calls.]] Hv. Senators are scrambling their own Ministers repeatedly. [[The president calls.]] There is no material basis for that. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u145	V.E.G. President. This hall has various opinions on what to appease and what to use, or protect and activate. There are no doubt sixty - three conflicting views on this subject. Over the decades, these issues have been wary. A Ramma plan was a way to communicate. There, no one gets all their wishes. There's a way everyone can agree on, i.e. It's a code of rules we've agreed to do. This case is not in accordance with the rules of play, or the adjustment to that. That's why, Mr. President, I think it's unusual that the case is here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u146	A respectable president. I'm just going to go back to review how I feel about this. I have to say exactly as it is that there is nothing to say, for the reason that this matter is decided on the program, knowing how it will affect the work of the council, other than that man is covering his complete impotence in trying to reconcile himself to a labour market, in trying to get control of the situation, and in answering the pleas of people who are tens of thousands of times in strikes, or on the way to strikes, to improve quality of life. This government is doomed to answering that call. This government has promised all beautiful things. They were supposed to cancel the insurance policy just after the election. Over two years later, the senators of the Foreign Party are standing here in a public chair trying to draw attention to this matter, trying to get an audience with the head of the party. It is in the position that this matter is scheduled to cover the confusion, to cover up the impotence, to cover up the lack of efficiency. That's why we're standing here. A respectable president. I have to say, as it is, that the advising of the case is almost entirely new heights - or should we say down - when it comes to making a decision not even to face people with it and to present these suggestions on the additional workers in a special assembly case. What's that other than a little bit of chicken? These are huge decisions, involving the destruction of the process called a frame plan, the plan to attack the four activations with an associated effect, and the idea that it is perfectly normal to introduce them as a modification form to another case here at the council. It's just one big joke. And this is also--I'll let me call it--one of the greatest food I've ever seen. You don't suggest that you bring the matter into the council independently, so that's why they do it this way. It is now all manlyness - because it was discussed here - that can be found in this greater part of the council. A respectable president. It is perfectly clear to me that this case will have very profound consequences. As a result, the procedure that has been completed for 18 years in the context, actions that were then legalized here during the last terms of a legal term with all paid votes in agreement. They're making a decision to throw them away. And they do not decide to do so directly by violating the law or changing the law. No, they decide to do it in this squeamish manner, come in here with four new inducers as a change in proposal. And then what? A respectful president is hereby making a decision that will be a disgrace to the council for long periods of time in which it is claimed that this is not a major change in a judicial decree proposed by a minister. Of course it is. What a remarkable change this is in the council arrangement that came in here! It is best that the minister of environmental and resource matters, prior to the current, the highest. Minister Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson -- that's what all his personal opinions on the activation issues of the lower part of the Year, for example, do you know? But what does he do when he comes in on this matter? He decides to follow the procedure, he decides to respect the procedure. He decides to bring in only the results that the project management was prepared at the point to settle. And may he have thanks for that. This was made clear when the early ideas of opposing this process appeared on the job committee before Christmas, on his part, that he disagreed. He said it very clearly. Then the Commission decided to wait for another environmental minister to be appointed. Now that minister has come, they take action again and bring the case into the council. A respectable president. What happened since yesterday is one of the most amazing things I've ever seen. When I'm at the highest. During a television interview, a minister has declared that she rather wanted men to stick to this original proposal and let the project management finish her work, so there's a problem. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson up here, and he talks to her like she's here for the council. He directly says that those who are relevant here at the council will accept this adjustment. This is all the beauty of the message of those who follow this talk with a tone of voice. If they don't agree with them, they don't matter, they're people who can only be taken out of the Sanhedrin. Did anyone here defend the highest? Minister? No, she was alone in this, subjecting it to yesterday's conference hall. I've never seen such, more dignified president. It was an ugly journey to a minister. But that doesn't mean that I agree with what she said in her speech yesterday, I'm not. I also find it strange to say that it would rather have chosen men to comply with the original proposals of the project but then say: "Because this proposal has come, I now assume that I will have chosen the ones in the lower part of The Year but not Rock and not Hague Lake -- well, if you've taken a table, you'll have a table, I'll just have something to eat. In this way, the minister is completely incompatible with himself in respecting these procedures and respecting the results of the task management and allowing them to work. There is a crying contradiction in this presentation, and this reveals it, and it also clearly shows how unprofessional it is. Tastes are beginning to follow. Political quirks and the tastes of the individual senators are beginning to determine where they are activated and where not in this country. It was not an easy task to push this strategy out after the law was adopted during the last assembly, not at all. What a difficult assignment that was! Why was this a difficult assignment? It was a difficult assignment because very many people had an opinion of where the individual benefits should be found and had much to do with the objective reasons and some emotional factors, of course, because we are talking about the nature of Iceland, which we all associate with in different ways. But it was decided that the professional process would be successful, and they eventually accepted the conclusion, even though it was difficult. A respectable president. That's what this is about. In an effort to resolve a compromise and a conclusion that may be acceptable, all need to yield something. We know we're going to have to activate. We'll have to use nature. Then, too, let us have guidelines on this as set out in the Law on Framework. Otherwise it's like this - and that's why I also say that people don't know what the aftereffects here will be - that when there's some particular activation option over and over again, they slow down, they slow down, they create uncertainty for the long future. The energy sector needs stability and vision. He needs to be able to work long-term. Can he do so when political whims rule? Can he do so when a government decides to discard any process that will create a long - term view? No, he can't. He could last year, he can't right now. The decision has been made for special interest, in order to strike political cones, to upset the energy sector and its long - term vision. No one's being paid here, no one. It is also done by this government to make a decision to ignore the peace code or the protection party. This was done right at the start. And now the colony is being slaughtered too. A respectable president. I can't say what kind of people are doing here. Of course, we are in a hot mood because we have an tireless job behind the conclusion that was reached, tireless work, and the hard work of dogs. The one standing here often got involved in the use of the spears, and it was not that you were at peace with an environmental organization or the energy companies in all that process. But that's when you had to go along with the process because that's the case. He's sensitive, he's controversial. Hence, we need a course of action that we are on. A respectable president. There have been some reports here, and it has been claimed that an advanced government has gone through grueling. That's what they said. paritaprevir In this discussion, Páll Jóhann's son Pálsson's words, who has repeatedly shown that he could read the story more clearly about how this was done. He could also learn a little more about the law, the laws on a frame plan. The Act on a Framework Programme adopted in 2011 stated that, in the leading part of the first Parliament's resolution or presentation, there was a provisional principle that specifically discussed the prelude to the first Senate resolution. And what did it say? It said that when there was a classification - and there were professionals and managers of the project management that stratified according to the order of the work programme - a minister should enter the case into an open narrative process for 12 weeks. After that, and after the father's remarks, a synopsis proposal would be passed, which would then be sent to the council. However, when the 12 - week legal process was completed, some priming words were received, while the third hundred remarks were received in this open process. When it was finished and the comments were made, the decision was made, of the one being here and the other. Svavarsdóttir We didn't want to put political fingerprints on a decision-making program to handle these comments. Therefore, the decision was made to reevaluate the assets given most comments from the project management, with these comments, and therefore these benefits were moved to a waiting party. If the logic and method of the present administrative element had been determined, we could easily drive it to a reservation as if it were convenient for us because we liked it and we could have been a good reason for it. There would have been many among us who would have been very happy about it, very many. But we did so, not because we wanted to be governed by political views, but because we wanted to have a professional evaluation that we had legally accepted. This is a fundamental difference between what is being done here and what was done then, a fundamental difference. There's nothing professional about what's being done here unless you call the professional conclusion of destroying a frame plan. Hv. Councilmen on a professional committee - I'm going to state that they don't have the right to make professional decisions about where to activate and where not. There's a political trip here, and that's why we're standing here and trying to protect the framework process. That's what's on our mind. It is of utmost importance when we associate with the natural world of Iceland that we make decisions based on professional considerations and not just on individual tastes. That's what's going on here. You're going to make decisions based on your taste. We heard it coming. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson. He didn't see it as something great. It was his taste and his opinion, okay, he can have his opinion on me. But in all the prayers of Almighty God, decisions are not to be built at the council, calling it a professional opinion, opinion, and taste. A respectable president. We need to gather that this matter will be stopped at the council and that men will reexamine their thoughts in this regard. That's what we're asking for. We are asking for nothing more than a reevaluation of one's mind, agree with us, and agree with the highest degree. Environment Minister, current and invasive, in that the task management should gain peace to complete its work. A respectable president. Good committee party from what happened. paritaprevir Kristjingi L. Möller, from the 1st small part of the employment committee, is well presented with views presented in the opinion of the industry and energy office at the Ministry of Employment and Development and then again from the Environmental and Resource Ministry. It makes clear and very logical why this Ministry feels that this is too far, that this is a violation of the Law on the Framework. That's very logical, and I'd like to encourage you. Senators who are in this room to read this opinion, study it. This is not just some conversation of sour left men here at the council, that it's against the law. This is also the opinion of the Ministry of Employment, and this is also the opinion of the Environment and Resource Ministry. The European Union of Iceland, according to its review, does not recommend that a greater proportion of the Alleglers agree to the implementation of activation initiatives, which the project management of the 3rd Plan has not taken into account, from a waiting category to a novelty class. The Icelandic community is opposed to this operation. Who's listening to the board here? What Is It? And in the meantime, nothing will happen for protection or use, during this circus, nothing. No doubt, all of us can make a request for a list of how we want to handle the nation's resources. But that's not our assignment here at the Council. Our task here at the General Assembly is to create beneficial processes, a process that people can rely on, which can be built on, and a process that makes nature enjoys the doubt. We're making a conscious decision to blow up that process and let the attitude of me on it, I'm allowed to do it. It will be the eulogy of this government, and not just in this case, but in so many others.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u147	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a fine speech. She reviewed the history of the case, i.e. I agreed to the council during the last term, so I'm not going to use my minute to ask her about it. What I am thinking about and what I am thinking. A member of the Sanhedrin also spoke with a state of the highest rank. Environment Minister in this case, but the highest. Environment Minister has declared that it does not support the development of more part of the employment committee. Hv. The head of the professional trade committee has minimized it and said that it does not matter what individual stewards might find. I wondered if this is a manifestation of the conflict between the members of the administrations, which, in fact, seems to be in more fields and a little strange what he really is in many areas. For example, we know that the Council's smell proposal is the highest. The prime minister for a new assembly is trapped in the Independence Party. Is the advance team becoming involved in this administrative work? Is it what we're looking at here on the most conflicting issues, that the Ministers of the Agency are being sent back by the Independence Party? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u148	A respectable president. That's a good list for you. A senator, who forgot two very big matters, which are the housing issues. So it's not just in this field, and you have a feeling that after you pass through with the 80 billion in correction of your homes, independence is viewed as having a lot of fat favors in and now it's time for them. I think, regardless of all the other issues, this case is just a matter of choice over the advance party, that's just the way it is. We heard it yesterday, and we saw it yesterday, and the disrespect was perfect. I don't know if this minister or group only has anything to do with it, I can't answer, that's all. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson answering. I felt so disrespectful that it has been a long time since I have seen other things, as I wonder, that no one was to defend the minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u149	Mr. President. You see, there are other examples. Let us not forget, too, the increase in the food tax. The senators warned, but they were so quick to eat it gradually, and instead of raising 12% by 11. You got the feeling that the correction was a very high price already. The prime minister suggested that the location of a new hospital be reviewed at the highest level. The minister of finance came and said: "He may have his opinion on this matter. It's not as much as a payment as a top. We got a environmental minister yesterday at the moment. The head of the pro board. It seems to me that the love relationships of these two groups have set up a strange place when one of them constantly needs to be eating down everything he says and suggests, and that's done here live. If I was a candidate, at least I would begin to think about my position in that love affair. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u150	I think if we were. A senator kept saying that way until the end of the day would always come up with more and more issues. I was also reviewing the insurance and her deduction. It's been totally put down. It is lost in a drawer of the Ministry of Financial Affairs, despite the findings of the members of the Parliament here on the importance of doing this and how easy it is, and only the will is needed. We can no doubt count on many subjects. What all of this leads us to, which is also the reason the government has lost so much faith, is that it is completely aimless, and there seems to be no extravagance of what is going on. It's just someone doing something and then they react to it. That is not how a country can be ruled. That's not possible. It ends in ditches, and we are on our way there in far too many matters, out of the absolute incorruption of the government and lack of policy. They cannot continue to deal with one thing at a time, they have to show us where they are heading, show us the big picture.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u151	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. In fact, I had heard most of it about the President's conference board. However, it is a matter of professional judgment and the need for us to follow through. People have also been talking about the economic situation and the conditions in society, strikes, and so on. Hv. A senator talks a little about reviews. They were changed to the last time. It so happens that I'm here with a review from the ASI, this may have been a bit cold greeting, if I may read it a little bit: It is the basis for the social well - being and improved living conditions of the people for whom the labor movement is active. [...] Data of three activation options, i.e. Impulse activation, Holtic activation, and Uryrocation, which are now proposed to become a waiting party, were given a full house ladder in all the professional groups. [[The president calls.]] Thus, the evidence presented for the transfer of these innovation options from the waiting category is unfaithful and not based on professional practices. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] What does it say? A senator on this?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u152	A respectable president. It's a little characteristic of the management hearing. Instead of representing themselves, they're gonna try this, aha, now I'm gonna take it at something like this. A respectable president. In my speech earlier, I carefully reviewed how all of this was done. We received over a third hundred envelopes in a legal process during the last terms. These reviews presented some opinions and also new opinions regarding the salmon population in Þjódraða. Instead of making a political decision to let this either stand or to move the benefits into a protective party as under intense pressure, we decided to ask the Commission, the professional party, to reevaluate it in the light of the narratives so that we would not take a political, material position on the matter. That was a fundamental factor in what was done during the last terms. I know it's no doubt for a candidate to understand such a stand, especially a man who has made a decision to let a political whim rule over where the new world is, but this was simply the case. [[The president calls.]] That's what took place.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u153	A respectable president. It's exactly this, when it comes to some professional estimate, the professional group gives a full ladder, it's not suitable, it's not political, and then it's changed and asked for a new opinion. [[Up front.]] It was the same with The Vicomte. ASI says: The instructions for transporting the Scorpio century, The I and II, from the waiting company are that professional work in the preparation of a frame plan, has not been taken into account the criteria applied to the establishment of aquacule park. It is peculiar to change the criteria for professional evaluation when available and is regarded as not acceptable practice. [...] ASI thus recommend that six proposed activations be replaced by a waiting class and a novelty for the Generals. Aren't those cold greetings? Wouldn't it be better if we started these in 2015 and 2016? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u154	I hope so. A senator reads just as well the reviews of the actions of this government in terms of fraud when it comes to the labour market. I hope so. A senator will. A respectable president. There was never a new assessment of anything. Here at the Council was adopted by a framework of a preliminary principle that accurately stated the first procedure, that was the process of reporting. This process was adopted by all paid votes, even including candidates and independents, who now do not want to know a thing because it does not suit them politically.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u155	Beautiful estimate...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u156	It's not political for them. The project was never asked for any new references until there were a third of the envelopes and indications of the proposed activations. Then we asked the task management, the professional party, to evaluate them for reviews. [[Up front.]] Thus we took political fingerprints out of the case, a respectable president. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u157	A respectable president. I'm glad to hear it. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson has come with something materially to answer. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir. Therefore, there has been no way of spreading in the discussion until now. It's a pleasure to see that. A senator has one of the many comments that appeared on this case, which, of course, violates the conspiracy theory of a member of his team. A senator, Vigdís Hauksdóttir, who claims that the ASI and the employee movement were all in some agreement with the government during the last term of not going to strike. I'd like to ask you what. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir, the daughter of Juliet, who gave a very fine talk, even included. into the President's decision, in the statement at the bottom line. The president, because he does not conclude that the matter is subject to Congress, that he is convinced that the matter is subject to Congress, does not put it in such a certainty, he puts it in a way that he prefers it. Know what I'm sayin'? A senator who's been here longer than I have, in a wording as weak in any decision or opinion of the president of the council as in this case? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u158	A respectable president. I think this expression indicates that people were going to reach a certain conclusion in the matter and that they were trying to find ways to do so. If you're going to say it really, and you mean professionally that it's not a major change in the synonym, you know, to go through four new priming options, if you're going to hold your head for a long time, you can't help but find some expression in their conclusions, I think. But, in my opinion, it wasn't a professional decision, it was a political opinion, a political decision we got here at President's. I'm sure he's not happy as he sits behind me with this judgment, but that's the way it was, and that's what I am. That's why this is the way it is, because it's the highest. The president knows he can't claim it's a connoisseur. That's why they say it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u159	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. After discussing these talks, you may find that you have an excellent motivation to draw together key points in very short terms. It's very important to me. A senator came in. It is very important for those in charge, and especially for those in particular, I would say, who, in my opinion, have let the independents get involved in this case, listen to the difference and understand the differences between the changes made in the proposals of the project during the last term and the changes made here, because it will not be enough. I want to pray. A candidate in short, as the counter allows, to explain the difference between the two, because it seems to be a greater part of the employment committee, that this is comparable to what the major part did, and that's why it's okay. I want to hear what. The contrast between these two is illustrated by a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u160	A respectable president. It is true that this will never be said too often, because it will not go through. There is a difference between making a decision in the light of reviews after a legal narrative process to transfer the benefits, not to many, less than 10% of the factors being discussed, in a waiting party and asking the task management to recheck them, to do so at a shorter time than the usual process allows for, and to evaluate for us the rest of the narratives, and to the level here where political taste factors determine what to do in this case. A respectable president. There is a sea between these two approaches and the sky. If this government and government were to be able to compare what they are doing with what we did, it would be because we would have moved these advantages, for example. A great deal of pride, but it wasn't done, although the one standing here would have liked to have done it because I feel that he belongs there personally. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u161	Mr. President. Hv. A senator well considered the difference between the current changes and the decision that former Ministers had decided to put in a process that was open to the public, where the community's access was guaranteed, which is legal. No matter how often it is said from this platform, they do not want to understand it. I'd like to ask you what. A senator on the subject of peace. Now it is part of the balance between fortresses and the protection that governments follow in a peace-lit area. It has been found that since the coming of this government, there has been no claim of peace. The last contribution was made to the budget of the former government. What's the matter? A senator about that?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u162	A respectable president. As far as I'm concerned, there's been no balance in the way people have entered a frame plan. Of course, if it is actually to be used as an instrument, it is also a legal procedure to be carried out in terms of peace in these areas. So it has been very sad to see that governments have decided to interpret laws on a frame plan so that even those that are not started in a protective peace process are constantly sent to reevaluate the project. It's against the spirit of the law set in the last term. This may be most evident in the law that rural society should immediately initiate organizational change in accordance with the results of strategies and strategies there; the rural society should act in an immediate process to change its organization as if it are about to be peace - cleared; however, the State feels that it can interpret the law in a way that these benefits are under constant reassessment. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It doesn't make sense, Mr. Honorable President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u163	Mr. President. I just want to come up with the opinion or report of the project management framework since last spring. Regarding their social impact, it shows that they are not included in that change. The task management points out that it is not good enough that it is not important to determine what is involved in protection and use. The task management points out that when assessing environmental impacts, it is reasonable to evaluate more closely the effects of society and that society is part of that process. I'd like to hear some attitude. The senator's view that we are being reviewed of the professional process is to better weigh the social impact into all of that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u164	A respectable president. I think in the 18 years that the Framework Programme has been in progress, it evolved. New variables and new features have been taken to aim, and it is normal now to take the social impact into the process. I think it matters to me that it will be done. I believe we should make changes in that environment by focusing on the evaluation of the social effects as well. Then I'm not judging the process over again. This is simply part of the development of the tool. I believe that at any point up to now men have made the best decisions based on what they were meant to make and that is normal the next step in a community that makes the demands to take the social impact into, so, yes, I agree with that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u165	V.E.G. President. I'm here to repeat my request that this case be addressed in the light that the Ministry of Environment says that the Ministry does not consider this to be legal. I'd also like to point out that today the Supreme Court judges passed that insurance insurance at Iceland's consumer loans is legal. I am weeks and months have been in debt to request special discussions at the highest level. Prime Minister on bail. It's the main vocabulary of the advance party to cancel the insurance policy. I think it would be appropriate for us to take the discussion here that concerns the interests of the households in this country. Let us take these problems off the program and discuss something that matters to people, the salary people involved in thousands of strikes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u166	A respectable president. I'm going to propose to the president that we're going to finish this discussion. Seems like a lot of people. Senators want to say something about the President's conference board, and it might take us a long time. There's a rising day tomorrow, a holiday, and I don't think there's any reason to keep up with this discussion for so long that people go to another speech here. Perhaps it would be rather that people would say this good, so tonight and tomorrow they could think more about what they want to talk about with this team on Friday. Perhaps the government would give them nothing to think it over, consider her situation on this matter. I'm asking if there's any reason why anyone can find out how to wind up with the nonsense we're in here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u167	The president can make it clear that it was his intention to postpone this discussion, but what? The members of Congress had asked so many people for the word for President's conference board that he chose not to make it appear that his manhood was shocked, and he was afraid to deal with this discussion about the President's conference board. Don't let the President take over. Councilmen, but willing to drive. Senators are discussing the President's conference board?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u168	No one doubts about a manly President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u169	No doubt...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-13-106.u170	President welcomes these words of acceptance.
