ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u1	President. Of course we agree on this. I think it's the objective of all the people in this room, whether they're members of a financial committee or other committees, government or not, to support the government or not, to take over the budget after the collapse. It is very important to do so, and it has always been our main objective, from the very beginning when we all got it in the fall of 2008. So it was during the first four years after the collapse, with an enormous reversal that I covered earlier, tens of billions of dollars per year up to 2013 when the state's budget was returned to zero. I don't agree with what. A senator says this is a good budget bill that returns at zero in the third year in a row. It's not acceptable, and I'm not even going to try to think of the talks that would have been held here if there had been a left government that would have put the budget on zero for the third year in a row, after the previous. [[Up front.]] That's not acceptable. We should be able to do much better than is suggested to be done, much better. If it's so difficult to work on it, as the management committees have said, the pressure is so intense, it's so difficult, it's complicated, it's supposed to leave it to someone else to work this job, because it's a good way to do it. We showed no doubt about it during the last term. It was not a small task, but it was possible, and it is all possible, and we managed it, and we turned in our state funds at the zero in 2013. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] We're still in the same place, and it's disappointing. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator must agree with me that staying down the road is disappointing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u2	A respectable president. I saw some hope in the fact that there's a new president in the chair. Like senators and the Supreme Court. The president likely noticed a rather simple question raised by one of 20 senators at the meeting about when it would be expected that this meeting would be concluded. Then it was referred to as being far off at midnight, although it was time to turn 11. Now it's at midnight, I suppose, and perhaps it's time for Öskubuska to let her know when to quit the ball.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u3	Madam President. I agree with this question because the last news we have of President's plans for the progress of the meeting is that it is still considerable at midnight. Now that she has reached five minutes, it would be refreshing to know what the president has to tell us about the plans now. According to Parliamentary Times, there is a double talk period in the 2nd. as a result, it takes an average of 40 minutes for the sheep to discuss, and as for the people who have been present, it is almost an hour. Right away. paritaprevir Unnur Konráðsdóttir Konsásdóttsdótttir has given her speech here, may she expect that speech to end in the second hour of the night. It's supposed to be conducting a meeting in the General and Education Committee at the time. 8:30 a.m., I'm sure it will do well, but I'm wondering what the President's thinking is about the continuation here. [[The president calls.]] It's unpleasant for everyone not to know about the plans, and I think it would be a good habit to answer questions when they are asked.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u4	A respectable president. I know the law doesn't apply to the labourer's law on the general body. It would be a good custom, however, that the Council showed the respect for the law of law for its work. Meetings start early tomorrow morning. I'm going to a meeting, for example. 8:30. It's past midnight. As a conscientious woman, I endeavor to attend meetings during their stay. What, then, is involved in not being able to inform a senator of how long he can expect to stay awake into the night? It's a simple question presented sincerely with conscientiousness, and I don't believe it to the highest degree. Mr President will be participating in this stupid play of the men who have been sitting here on the President's chair tonight. They're all old in the hood, well, not all of them, some, but President intends to take part in a stupid play not answering the question of how long to continue? I call attention to the fact that among the senators, a mother is the mother of her breast - feeding twins. She does not know whether or when to go home to milk her children. Times have changed. There are women in the General Assembly, a woman in the President's chair, and this old stupid old play of the men of ancient age, and 17 hundred and sauerkrauts is gone, having a quiet fight in the face of the government that's trying to win their jobs. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u5	V.E.G. President. These evil men are everywhere, and I think it would be easier for a president to answer the relevant questions to the President about when the meeting would be concluded if the government might give us some idea of what she was going to talk about for a long time about this matter. Where's the play? [[Up front.]] How much time would the government take to discuss the budget? [[Foreground on: As necessary.]] As necessary, yes. [[Foreground on: Yes.]] Therefore, the president answers: A meeting will last as long as necessary. You see, that's why. [[Up front.]] I was thinking about this when I listened to the discussion at the British Parliament, where they were going to war. The government's post wanted to talk for two days. [[The president calls.]] She was given one day and they were going to war. Even the government situation here cannot reveal how long she is going to talk about the budget. [[Up front.]] [[But the board of directors?]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u6	A respectable president. I'd like to ask a president: "How long are we going to continue? Hv. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son pours herself over the government because she does not give up on how long she's going to talk. We haven't been asked yet. [[Up front.]] No one's asked us that. Everyone here is in their first speech. There's nothing going on here. There's no speech or anything. [[Up front.]] They're in their first speeches. Yesterday, the members of the committee began to speak. And then, the rest of the boys, we get to say something, too, and we'd love to do it in daylight. We want to do that while people are watching and watching. That's all we're asking for. I'm just going to ask the President one more trip, when are we going to leave these lame things and start talking about how long this meeting is going to last? It's not going to work like this anymore.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u7	The president intends to continue a meeting for a time where there is a very useful and practical discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u8	Madam President. We saw this on the subject of debate. paritaprevir Bristur, Níelsson's son, former president of the Legal Guild, has won much of the government's work. To tell you the truth, I don't recall. A senator I consider to be one of my fans to have held a talk that was just as difficult to understand, yet he was threatened. I don't play everything, like I do at the highest. The President knows, and there's nothing to complain about, even though I have to stand here quite a while, but what. paritaprevir Brynjar of Níelsson's son expressed it in a way that would be held for as long as necessary or until the government's possession had spoken their content. I feel like the highest. A president or after an incident or two. paritaprevir The armoures of Níelsson need to explain what this means. So it's my intention to define a word to the highest degree. For a time, do you think the president of the United States might allow a meeting to continue until you are either a subject or an invalid? Is that a problem? [[The president calls.]] It would be a new experience for me, and considering how members of the management team hang here weak, feeble, and present in their chairs in the chamber, I just feel that considering their rights and health, it should be a night that I should be left at once, even though I was completely trusting to stay a little longer, perhaps not as long as it was. þm. The Brynjar of Niel's son is this. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u9	The President is entitled to say he is full of hard work and strength to operate here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u10	President. In previous talks, it has been suggested that the last terms have been all bad and planned here and there, but the program is now in other hands, and I challenge those who have the program management to do better. It is possible now instead of going to some criminal game or whatever people think it is. I think it's a little shameful. I reiterate my challenge: Let's do better as we continue.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u11	Madam President. It's a real joy to know that the President is full of work, but it's still interesting to the rest of us to know how long this meeting will last. Then I want to direct that wish to the highest. President, she'll inform you what. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson says that we're at the General Assembly, and it's not unusual that we want to talk about the budget. A third of the speakers on the available rosary is a management team and we on the front side must also want to talk to us about this document. Although much of it often seems to be a formality, pushing over the will of the smaller section at the council is free of speech. The curriculum is clear about our intentions. They're just getting to tell us about the budget, and it's about time. A senator will be informed not only about the business of senators but also about freedom of speech. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u12	A respectable president. It's better than it has to be said that my party is men who don't think it's gonna stay overnight and feel it's best here. I admit that it's the way I feel best to be at my house. This is especially true at night and is understood by those who know. I reiterate my question to President on the end of a meeting and urge him to complete this discussion. I don't think it's acceptable for members of the United States Congress to deliver a talk on the night's budget. I just want to explain to the president, if he thinks this is going to shorten any of the discussions, that the talks that members of the United States Congress may need at night to be reassigned in daylight. They will simply be moved in such a way that the members of the council who need to speak here at night will ask for the word or others on their behalf and bring back the matter they were compelled to take here at night so that the president is quite aware, because we speak both Icelandic, that it will not shorten the assembly to continue here in the night. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u13	A respectable president. As I said today, I remember nothing about standing here until the red night. However, I still find this quite atrocious to our voters and to the people who may still be interested in observing discussions at the General Assembly. I understand there are several groups, and therefore I think it is far more intelligent and more respectful to voters that we speak in daylight and not at night. Besides, I'd like to ask a very practical question. I think it's like I'm a sixth at the speaker file now, and I'd really like to know if I'd be talking tonight or if I could just go home and do a little fine polishing, and meet up with a snout as a rainer tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u14	Madam President. I think it's disrespectful to the council that they have to give their first talk in cover 2. After midnight. The speeches are being retrieved. We know that the World Congress Channel is watched, and a large group watching it are older citizens who are eager to observe national matters and who are usually asleep at that time. I feel, just like a whale. paritaprevir Hjövar's Hjörvar, says that it should be offered to those members of the council who need their first talks at this time to bring them back in the day. It's a matter of filing senators. Naturally, members of Parliament, when they give their talks on such a big matter as the budget is, are trying to reach their voters. That must also be the goal. What voters are awake at this time? There may be some who stay awake at night and some such group. Normally, everyone is fast asleep now, and a world of Congress should be to collect energy for the days ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u15	A respectable president. This is not helping the case or the discussion, this attitude toward the government here. As we have seen, it's not just disrespect, it's disrespect for those who want to follow this discussion. There may be some part of the public in the country who wants to know what business we have here at the Council and who is the underlying political bitch in the decisions we make and the decisions we take, as for example, to the government's budget. Hv. paritaprevir Brynjar, Níelsson's son, arrived earlier, threatened with some military speech that he took the initiative to take. All I have to say is, as long as you're still on the rosary and you're still on the first talks, it's not appropriate to start acting like you've got a problem or a problem. It is not even time to ask how long the discussion should last on our part. We will attend the council and give our first talks, such as the law and the Senate expect us to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u16	President. Hv. paritaprevir Þorvarðardóttir Þordóturdóttir mentioned the twins before. I am myself in a situation where I have an eight - month - old daughter at home that I can only see just right in the morning. I'm not too much for falling into emotional beds, but I think they apply, they apply to the mother, and also to the father. We're in a slightly different community than we were here in years before. I look forward to going home, hoping to see my daughter more tomorrow than today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u17	Madam President. I may not be as convinced as many senators of long - held meetings for a family and a good relationship, for I have long felt that mutual distances are a constant bond. But I care about the feelings and health of others who work with me, and I see that many people are unhappy with this. I'm in itself not yet, but I think it would help everyone, including me, if they knew their immediate future and it would be good to know how long the highest. President intends to proceed. On the other hand, I feel that it is necessary to move here to the hall as the chairman of an independent party that comes here and dumps bombs in the Senate hall and then flees. I'll tell you what to do. paritaprevir The armour of Níelsson the son of Nils. He comes here and threatens the United States of Congress by having a conference held for as long as the government has the strength to speak. It even upsets me. [[The president calls.]] I had not necessarily planned to participate in this conversation through a formal talk, and I have not yet signed up on a rosary. But there's a time when I'll do it if I do. þm. Brynjar Nielson's son, in this way, takes over the board of directors and goes here to Dozera and delera, giving some orders that this meeting should be held even uninterrupted until next week. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u18	A respectable president. It'll always be that way at night meetings, the senators say, "Yes, it's just fine, and we can talk into something important tonight and all that. But then they're here only in small smaller pieces. A greater proportion of members of Parliament who are on the watch are anti-continents. Where are the people asking for an evening meeting and a night meeting? Don't want to be here with the rest of us. At the same time as we're sitting here under these food vows of the Council's President, this Power-gemim that is being passed, the police escorting children to the airport and sending them out of the country, cutting them out of contact with people they have connected with, and social situations. This is a police escort to take the refugees out of the country. That's the reality, and while we're in some kind of famine area here. It's not okay. [[The president calls.]] The presidency in this house needs to get our shit together and start to realize what's going on out here and how we're working in a modern society.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u19	President. I think there's absolutely no place to think that the situation in which we are in isn't decent for the council, not for political advantage, not for any group for amassing or excrement in any way. We know that before the Senate ends by Christmas, we need to make some kind of conversation. Government and government opposition need to achieve some form of conversation here, and here we need to review how we are going to complete Congress. The plan will not be completed tomorrow, but the other according to the schedule we are still working on, and the president has not provided any plans to change it. It's clear that we're overcrowded if we're going to complete a council this week and something into next week. This conversation must take place, these meetings need to be held. The bullshit that the President represents here with the council, and with the opposition, there's no way to improve the atmosphere at the General Assembly, not to increase the possibility that there will be objective and upbuilding discussions about how to complete the holiday contracts for Christmas licenses. [[The president calls.]] I'm worried we're putting things here in a very serious knot, and that knot is totally responsible for the President's responsibility. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u20	Madam President. I didn't realize that before, when it happened. paritaprevir The armoury of Níelsson's son came up here, and he called for us in our government to give us how long we were going to speak in this matter, to be a member of the council of the Independence Party, that he was in that responsible position. In that position, his words are far more important. I might as well ask you why. A Senator: How long will this government last? When will she resign? [[Taken out on: right.]] Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come That's as reasonable a question as any. And what? A senator can't ask a reasonable question, I would say. But, hey. Of course, a member of the body needs to realize that we need to speak in this matter, and we are not in the first talk. He cannot call for such things as God knows what.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u21	V.E.G. President. I didn't know I was a member of the council chairman, huh? I'm told by a senator. But I do not understand why it is not possible to determine what the government will long talk about. If no one knows, it is also harder to answer the question you are always asking: How long? [[For example, there is freedom of speech on the rosary.]] I know it's freedom of speech, but where's the play? Why is it not possible for humans to inform us of the length of a meeting? [[For example, consider: Should it last forever?]] Yeah, yeah, it's a long speaker's file. It's not empty. We don't know how long they're gonna talk. Therefore, we cannot really answer the question of how long a meeting will be every day. It's so simple, and I don't understand why. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson doesn't understand, as an experienced, intelligent man as he is.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u22	V.E.G. President. I don't think it's particularly cool for the General to become entertainment with negative signals. This is no fun program, I suppose, for the nation. We're discussing the Icelandic government budget for the next year, and it's been a great discussion. It's a long talk file, and I think most in the management position would like to use their speaking time, anyway, those who have spoken about it, and all I've done is that this is a perfunctory discussion. It would have been possible to speed up the discussion by informing us today of the length of a meeting meeting. We could have agreed, or we could have spoken against it according to events. I feel that we should try to participate in this discussion as adults. [[The president calls.]] A requirement is being made, so that we may know how long this meeting will last. Why don't we get the answer? [[The president calls.]] We will keep asking this about it as long as we do not get the answer to that question. [[The president calls.]] But it's beginning to develop into a sort of weird game, and I think that it would be done right now by breaking up immediately. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u23	V.E.G. President. Now, there's such a weird situation here that we're underneath, the government side, to answer for how long we're going to talk. I wanted to talk about the welfare of the budget, which is now about half of the budget, and I gave my first talk. I'm no. 17 or 18 on the rosary, and on that rosary, there is one third of the executive speakers. Congressmen like me would like to use their freedom of speech here to review their opinions and viewpoints and the financial resources we present. [[Up front.]] It seems that it is not clear who is in charge of members of this council, now that we are speaking into the next Thursday. Perhaps there is a reason why the chairman of the council goes to the party and reviews who are in charge or if this is all bullshit.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u24	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Ingadóttir Ingajörgdóttir now basically stole the crime from me, but my speech in the symposium right now was simply getting an answer to who is the procurator of the Independence Party.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u25	Guðlaugur-like Þór.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u26	[[Up front.]] I was racist, but perhaps in view of how short I have been at the council now, I had lost sight of some scenario, but there is clearly some doubt, and it explains why here is a sort of chaos and mismanagement in the council. So I reiterate my request: I just want to know if I should prepare to give my first talk about the budget at 6 a.m. or whether I can go home to sleep, which I prefer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u27	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying that I don't wish to be reassigned, despite the discussions that have taken place in front of me, and I'm sorry that anyone else in the House would accept the liberty of putting me back on the rosary. And as long as I'm making declarations here, I hereby declare that I'm not a member of the Independence Party, not yet. We'll discuss the budget bill here. The talk has been through many areas, which is normal, and this is where we are discussing the largest case of the council on this loss. It's a real pleasure to see that we put on budgets, that's important, third year in a row, that's a fact. Why is this important? Because it shows that we are on the right track as we are mastering the government. It is a source of tremendous satisfaction and attention, not only in this country but also in a foreign field. They were not eager to present it here during the last terms, and it is also appropriate to maintain it here. I would be interested in talking more about government management. I was in the government's economic group, and we presented our proposals back then. I notice that more of the legal committees review those suggestions in their committee at 2nd. And that's fine. The purpose of our work was to strengthen the government's objective to cover a wide range of budgets, and it has now been achieved. It was then the goal of making the state population sustainable over time and was suggested to look to the current debt and increase in expenses, including due to the change in population age. Third, the goal was to improve the practicality and success of a government so that good and powerful services could be performed in accordance with the needs of the people and then to improve the development and efficiency of the government. We gave 110 suggestions in this group. It varies in their status and is only reviewing the statistics in the members of the rest of the section. However, as an example of what has happened to my committee and as a member of the General and Education Committee, we can say: the agreement between a member of the county and the police department and their separation with the objective of strengthening the office and giving a better service. It is important that we never sleep on our guard and make sure that the public tax is new in a responsible way. Especially do I rejoice that a financial committee deals in detail with these issues in its members. One of the projects I have been considering is how we can adjust our business by making further and more use of electronic administrations. Various nations have set that goal and have the goal of reaching more than a portion of the resources suggested for them, e.g. Denmark, by increasing electronic administration and by increasing public availability to the public and simplify all the processes involved in applying and handling. I led an internal minister's work force on these matters, and I really hope that in the years that we will see the place where we are going to go further in that area. It is only mentioned in the little book that is often called by means of the financial bill on page 5. 16 A chapter on public shopping and electronic services It reviews that this induction would take several years, but we start by introducing the common purchases of the state. It says that by using information technology to a greater extent than we do today, the services for the public and the business are improving, the structure economy is increasing, and the management of public services. It is clear that the community will benefit from such projects, and we see that the economy could become significant as well as all services to the public and to the business. It's a simple idea, but we need to update it. It will cost funding to start this project because we need to strengthen the systems in which the management board lives today, that is clear. But I sure hope we will see the place in this ideal period that we will take the step forward in this matter. The discussion has done a number of things, and the changes in the greater part have some suggestions that I especially want to discuss in terms of the series that is in my field of affairs at the council and that attend to the General Committee. This is a suggestion to add 400 million. K. to the police. It is vital that we strengthen this nation's foundation, but in 2014 we took the step of adding 500 million. K. ... topolice in Iceland. Now we're taking the next step by adding 400 million. K. On top of it. We have a lot of work to do. The number of tourists has increased pressure on the positions that control and provide services in areas where most of the tourists are traveling. It is urgent to respond to the great change in the service need in those areas. At the same time, it is very important to increase funding in sexual crime studies as well as to keep better out of domestic violence issues, but we know how police officials are now trying to reach that important task. It is important to recognize that the emphasis on change in these categories is being made because there is much better to do and better to do. This will be done by shortening the time in the system, which leads to a better hold on reporting, and there is a lower chance that there will be nothing to it because the public and the people have forgotten the facts, since a long period of time has passed since the alleged offense occurred. It is also important that this is going through the whole system, and it also includes those who represent the prosecution and then the courts. How vital it is that we not be shy about talking about increasing and adding to the trend with regard to the ongoing education and re-education of judges! We can look to various examples there, including to Sweden, which has a much more potent program than we do. It is the future and the things to come. I know that society's debate has become a matter of whether there is a need to make legal adjustments, whether the legal environment in these matters, and especially the sexual offenses, is strong enough for us. I'm on the opinion that, of course, we can look at it, but I think it's not the main subject, it's the change of attitude and emphasis. Especially am I glad that the Minister of Internal Affairs has now established a group that intends to review these matters. Hopefully, that group will make changes because there are many things to do, such as. to consider the possibility of recording a so - called conversation between the parties. It is a social option that is being tried in Denmark and Norway, rather than Sweden, where the parties are concerned, i.e. An alleged subject and failure tolerance meet in a conversation controlled by third party to review what happened and discuss the event. Foreign affairs and concerns, including refugees and immigrants, have also been prominent in this year's discussion. This is good because this discussion is extremely important. What a joy it was to see the emphasis and increase in money that the government decided to place in this group of subjects! I also hope we'll see in this winter this new bill of foreigners coming here at the council and making a law before this assembly is out. As people know, a transnational Parliamentary commission has concluded that the bill to the minister and I hope that it will be submitted soon and that we can begin working on it. Of course, the great change and increase in the number of refugees and refugees throughout Europe results in changes and demands of better service. While at home we have a system that is fine, of course, more money is needed as the projects grow greater and heavier because we need more people to handle matters. It is good to see the place on the bill that they are being met by a great and urgent need. Among other things, the National Institute of Iceland is expected to get additional financial resources to increase the number of sites and the increase in set points for the National Institute of Iceland is expected to be about ten plus job related costs. That's good. Of course, we are familiar with the discussion about the inmates. The government sector also makes 87 million more. K. to that point. This is because as the number of trustees increases, more money is needed to carry out the ministry that we should perform to them. Of course, it is difficult to calculate the amount of money to the party because we do not know how many applications will be made, but this is a plan made on the basis of the presupergence available today. The objective of the bill that the Senate Committee gave in terms of the matter of refuge is to make the system smoother, simpler, more efficient, and humane, and I really hope that we will succeed in bringing it through here. You cannot give a talk about the budget without merely bringing up the fine southern district, but there are urgent issues. What all local government officials were talking about, who came before the Generals Committee and contacted us from the South, was the ART project. Clearly, a financial committee has found funds to contribute to this project, and this is of utmost importance. It is good that we can extend the life span of that project, but the social minister needs to get these matters going so that we do not have to make decisions every year for just one year ahead of time. It is important that repairs arrive at ports and airports because we know that, since collapse, donations for building structures have been very limited. Of course, we'd have to do better than we do here, but it's still a good start. Clearly, we need to face a great need for maintenance regarding our road system. A respectable president. In these budgets, social security benefits are greatly increased. It is clear that the changes we make here, both in the bill itself and in the changes made by the committee, will result in significant increases in social security benefits. We are familiar with the discussions that have been going on over the last few days. I'd like to state that it was one of the first works of this government to reinvent the impairments of the United States left and green legalized in 2009. We made the changes in July 2013 that pension fund wouldn't cut the basic pensions of old-time pensioners. At the same time, we legalized the transition to a vacation market for professional pensioners from 40 years ago. K. in a month to 110 you. K. per month. Then we made the adjustment that we would extend the up-and-out of a vacation market because of the employed micro-energy pensioner from 27 levels. K. of 110. K. A cross-reactment agreement of social security benefits and pension funds was extended. The cut-off rate of income insurance was reduced from 45% to 38.35% and the decrease in home repletion rate was reduced proportionally. Then came an increase in the holiday market because of a pension fund from 10 of you old pensioners. bk per month of 27 weeks. K. every month in three phases of the 2013-2015 year. Of course, these big changes have cost money from a government fund, but it was not avoided, for it was one of our most important points in the last election. Then, on the basis of 69 C.E., it is the arrangement for raising the elderly. Social Security Act. In this article, we will see that the improvements in social security are to be changed annually according to each budget. Their decision should take into account the development of pay, although improvements will never increase less than the price paid by the index price. That's how the law letter reads, and I repeat that it's a 69th par. Act on social security. There is a difference between compensation and pay. The barrier to improvement is not like the arrangement for increasing pay. When pay goes up, it's all the same on the basis of collective contracts. Contract agreements are made when collective agreements are available or agreed next to them. Therefore, the reference dates in collective agreements may be at any time of the year. But that's not the way compensation is. They increase every year in terms of budgeting on the basis of Article 69. Act on social security. And it is noted in the debates of members of the Parliament that at the council of the day this tremendous change was considered to be an enormously important change because this law ensured that improvement would always be improved. This ensures that while the situation is such that pay does not raise the benefits either due to changes in salary or on the basis of an increase in the price. If there are no remunerations, no increases, the improvement will still be increased. That is why, and that was the case with the people back then. I'm going to quote a talk or two. who was then chairman of the Allied Economic and Business Committee, Vilhjálmur the son of Egilsson. Regarding the article that was now being discussed at the General Assembly, he said by permission of a president: ▪ As it stands to the point now, I view the formula in this article as an effort to see to it that money gains do not improve despite the arrival of difficult times in society. Of course, the aim is to increase the cost of money and to reflect the general trend of pay development and the general increase in financial resources in the community. It is very difficult, however, to find some absolute criteria for this, exactly one index, rather than another, but I think that everyone agrees that the terms and costs of reforming are to be generally in line with what is happening in general in society. That is what people thought when they set this law into their hands. I hear it from the government council that they think it's right to leave this arrangement, as I understand it, and to put the compensation into some of the collective agreements. I can't quite figure out how they want to enter the legislation, as it must mean, that they're going to disappear from this arrangement. How so? I ask. So, will there be a loss of the important bail for reform recipients over the employee that despite the lack of pay, compensation will increase? I haven't figured it out in my partner's speech at the government stand, and I'd be glad to have some explanation for that. As a result of this series of articles, by the end of the New Year, improvements increased by 3%. Remuneration didn't raise them, but improvements increased by 3%. Then, there were many agreements adopted this year, and because of the change, we see an increase now in the social security improvement of 9.7%, which is a major increase. In the financial bill itself, the percentage was 9.4% but now takes the change that it goes up to 9.7%. This means that the improvement will take effect on January 1 next year, or about four to five months before most other employees will have their raise. So it's the context of the parts, and I think it's right to keep it here. If those who are now in a smaller part of the council feel that it is better that there is always some fixed bargain, why was that change not legalized during the last term? Why was this not done when humans had the power to change?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u28	It was done...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u29	If people were interested in making this so that the future would be changed, what could be the point of doing it while humans had the authority to do so? I view these trainings as only a political drama with the intention of glorifying the government in some way to the people in the community. A respectable president. I don't think it's right to have any more words on this bill. I see there are a lot of people here who are on the rosary and who have requested to speak up. The night is young, and there will no doubt be a lively discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u30	Madam President. Hv. A senator began by saying that it would be enjoyable, if not exceedingly enjoyable, to say that it would be a third of the budget in a row that would be left behind and hatched by saying that we were on the right track, i.e. We're in charge. I would say that there was a time when they said, "The Cradle will be Vöggur." Is it particularly enjoyable that the 2016 budget, after five years of continuous economic growth, should have 10 billion leftovers, perhaps 1.3% of the budget's results, less than 0.5% of GDP? Are we on the right track? The government's own prime address, the budget bill after 2nd. and the financial bill here that shows up some changes, the rest of the state's budget goes down by 20 billion from year to year. We're moving back closer to zero, we're going backwards, the rest's shrinking. If separated from irregular teams, the state's basic business, the payment of state funds on the base of the network would be apart from irregular teams, in the minus, and probably in more years than just the next. Is it good for the government to have run the course completely and to have no success in improving the state population during the three years that she has handled these matters? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u31	V.E.G. President. In fact, I completely disagree with the former secretary of finance that we are not in control of the government. We're getting results. I remember that as long as it rains. As a minister, he constantly complained that we in the government stand could not be positive, and we could not see when men were doing something good. Now I'm calling for what? A senator lets his light shine, remembers these words, and may not speak down all the things that are well done, as are an experiment made here. I hear no other than the government's ideal ideas for extra expenses, in fact, published an exemplary proposal to publish suggestions. In the list, the emphasis is missing in the memory of the part that I thought was for example the topic of the Kingdom News. But it may be something that has been lost. [[Step forward, come from you.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u32	Mr. President. I would be happier if there were something to rejoice over in an uplift that we cannot rely on that for many more years, and at the end of it perhaps should be a handsome share of government funds, if ever. We should be paying off debts and strengthening ourselves to cope with future downturns, but the underlying government business is not getting better between years. That's how I appreciate it, and I'll do what the former secretary of finance thinks I have a little sense of it. Then I have to say about it as a matter of course. A senator said about the benefits of the elderly and the disability and the law, I believe. There's a senator who's at a certain misapprehension. This is so that the principle is that there should be pay-offs, and there are certainly debates as to whether this should be due to an increase in the lowest salary or average wage development. If your pay development is so severe that pay goes up less than the price, that's a safety network, then your compensation should be paid. [[The president calls.]] Nobody's talking about changing these laws. They're talking about performing them in accordance with their spirit, that improvement in the quality of the sensibilities of the sensibilities of the sensibilities is actually following the level of remuneration as it has agreed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u33	V.E.G. President. I don't understand this law in any way. This law has been performed in the same way all the time outside of a single cycle. A senator sat in the government. [[Foreground on: No.]] That was because at that time, there were agreements, and the government issued a declaration in favor of the collective agreements that increases in the collective agreements would be repetitive. It was because the then government had entered the damages, and this was a requirement for all the parties who were subject to them, and it made them sad that they would be taken back. That's what the government wanted. paritaprevir Steingrímur Sigfússon Sigfusons wouldn't do it. She wouldn't eat it in her mouth. Instead, we were taken to go this way, and now we are using it as a follow - up explanation, that it is the spirit of the law. The spirit then has been present only once, only in the history of the left control. It's very peculiar.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u34	President. I appreciate your speech. Senator. In a discussion about public shopping, electronic administration, which I'm not interested in, I found that it refers to a total of 25 to 4 billion economics per year, but it takes several years. I'm wondering when. My experience is that in the public sector software development is a bit massive. The software sector's earlier experience has not been great, but it's on course now. On a project I had, we appreciated the software that had to be produced in one institution of about 100 million. K. and since then, there have been additional projects. It was shown by independent parties that there were proper standards. I'm interested in knowing a little more about the course that took place. A senator mentioned.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u35	V.E.G. President. I appreciate that answer. This is a common hobby for me and the senator here. It is clear that information technology has an enormous opportunity for convenience, and I say that the sooner we put increased power on this work, the better. But it is quite clear that it will take time, and the economy will pay over a longer period of time. When will it begin with full force? I hope that it will be as soon as possible, but as I say, this budget bill isn't a big summer for start-up, so we returned to the group I was conducting. I really hope that any preparation that is already started will result in success, that we will see it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u36	A respectable president. Now there is a huge development in software generation, and it can be seen from year to year how this will be done next year or how it will be implemented, so the sooner we start, the sooner we'll get there again. We'll miss the train if we don't start yet. Another thing I'd like to mention is that improvements and salary were reported and, as we know, the minimum wage is lower in percentages. The fact is, if pay and compensation do not cover the costs, which are not uncommon, it is so that when there is an increase in these benefits based on prices, they will do even less for expenses after an increase, it will be more than negative. I'd like some comments about the lowest paid ones I call them, because the money in the package for the people who make the money is what the people use to get in and out of. It doesn't make any difference whether it's pay or compensation, it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u37	V.E.G. President. Of course, those of us who are working according to the law need to work by them and therefore make a distinction between whether we are talking about pay or compensation because it is not the same thing. However, after the annual increase up to 9.7%, improvement from the beginning of 2014 has been increased 17.1%, while prices have increased by 7.1% at the same time. This is an enormous increase in money, and for example, a single microorgan with household support is rising from 225,070 k. of 246,902K. That's the raise. In the past of this government, the level of money gain has increased, there is no debate. The increase now will change that position further. [[The president calls.]] But the big project is to reexamine the system. I think we all agree that we want to do better. [[The president calls.]] The Board of Peter has this big task going on, and we wait and see what comes out of it and will likely take the scratches at the council in due time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u38	A respectable president. It's not complicated. This year's pay is well below the level of the elderly and the poor, and they have gone up since the last spring when the elderly and the poor have not. This is not a matter of percentages, it is a matter of princehood, of the fact that elderly and the desperate get the same elevations at the same times as others. I don't have any hopes for it. A senator listens to us in the position of government in this regard. But I ask why. A senator does not listen to the agreement of the Independence Party's National Conference that these groups should have elevations at the same time and at the same times as the others. Why is it? A senator to no conclusions about the older citizen's Union, which is certainly not the result of our opposition to government? How Would You Answer? A senator of the vast number of independents throughout the country from all over 60+ who have called for their members to be respected as other citizens of the country to have the same elevations at the same time?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u39	V.E.G. President. If it is the conviction of the senators who served in the government during the last term that compensation is to be raised as a crisis - torn increase arose, why did the members of Congress not work to alter the law in that way? I simply don't understand why people come up here now convincingly that things should be very different from what they've been up to. I don't understand this discussion. The only explanation is that this is some kind of papalism. It is clear that we have put the matter into practice that the Board of Peter is reviewing the whole group of events with the goal of simplifying the system and improving it. I'm glad that this committee is about to finish the job, and I really hope that when it does, we're here to get a good discussion in the Senate Hall and to improve the system with the goal that older citizens as well as disability will get the benefits they really deserve.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u40	A respectable president. I wasn't asking what. A senator about his last terms, but it's probably a matter of time before we go over it. Then, during the mid - 1990's, there were agreement increases, and even though there was rarely a more difficult business in 2011, it was decided to let the elderly and the desperate rise from the same time as others. [[Up front.]] But already it is. I must strongly object to the older citizen's national union, that older citizens'communities throughout the country, that the older citizens of the Independence Party all over the country are involved with plutonium when they call out for their own senators, in the case of their older independence partners all over the country, raising the wages of the elderly and the desperate from the same time as others. It's not poopism. It is automatic and natural, and the senator owes his voters and the older citizen's national organizations, not us in the opposition stand, explaining why they are not respected as other citizens of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u41	V.E.G. President. I reviewed it in my speech why former government groups went on to raise improvements in the middle of a year. It was because of the declaration made on the grounds of collective agreements, where a failed government would not accept the demands and requests of the same organizations as that. A senator here refers to removing them. Why not? Because they refused to admit that they had made a mistake and instead took the way that has never been done before. They now come up here and claim that they would have wanted things in any way other than the legislation expected. This is strange, and if they want to be parties to themselves, I ask against it, " Why didn't they change the law? '
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u42	V.E.G. President. I don't know if the senator left the hall. I think it's normal for her to be here when I ask her. I suppose she thought the answers were over.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u43	The President had not reported it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u44	No, but I suppose so. It's such a long time in the night. V.E.G. President. Then I'll keep going. I know why. A senator's just got a little mixed up. She is not used to running away from answering when asked. I come up here to discuss the issues of refugees and fugitives. On September 19, the government issued a declaration to set up 2 billion on the task of responding to the refugee ice in Europe when hundreds of thousands and millions of people arrive in Europe, with a devastating situation in its own countries. I'm assuming that of these $2 billion, 325 billion is in charge. A k., or 16%, to attend the hosting of refugees. Hv. Like me, a senator knows how important it is for us to accept as many people as possible. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agree that such a low proportion is involved? Does she know how many refugees to receive? Then there are the shelterers, which is 537 million. K. In addition to what to do, I believe that there is a small sum that should not be involved in the $2 billion. No matter what the refugee ice may be, commitments are to be made. [[The president calls.]] - I'm gonna take a little more time, because I was standing here waiting for the senator at first.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u45	The president will consider this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u46	This amount of money is not being used to increase its ambition. Today, people are being driven to the airport, which assumes that all Albanians are here for economic reasons, while more and more people are pointing out that there is a very technical situation there. [[The president calls.]] That's what I'm talking about. A senator agreed to this arrangement? Is there no more money to go to the reception of codemen?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u47	V.E.G. President. In addition to what was discussed here, funds are placed to assist in the neighboring countries of Syria, an exceedingly important one. The government's decision was always intended for three aspects, to take three projects; to receive the greeting, the trustees, and the funding of projects in neighboring Syria. It's hard for me to measure the ratio. I don't have the evidence in front of me that they have that made these decisions. But it's quite clear that the refugees who are, for example, are refugees. Lebanon wants to stay there, they want the global community to send money there so that they can stay there, just as we would like to if we had to flee here because of a natural disaster, we would like to be in our neighboring countries with whom we share something in common. It is clear, however, that it takes a great deal of welcome for people who are reaching out. [[The president calls.]] I don't know what the masses should be at last, but I don't think that's the main thing, but that we do our job well and are able to provide the needed services. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u48	V.E.G. President. I strongly object that such a high percentage of the 2 billion are earmarked lovers. They should come regardless of the $2 billion. The worshipers here come for various reasons other than their being on the run from Syria to form. There's a call that we'll meet the people of England. It is truly needed and that we receive far more people than we already do. It is unfortunate that we do not have clear plans for how many people we are going to respond to. However, this is the growing pressure of shelterers, and this is where we should respond to responsibility and go to our posts and have more analysis of the situations that come from, such as. With regard to an Albanian who could hardly find refuge for this place, and we sent the heartly ill children back into complete uncertainty. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But that is where we apply ourselves with these 2 billion, but then we do not try to improve in that regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u49	V.E.G. President. I think me and what. A senator fully agrees on the main points of this matter, i.e. that we would like to do well with the projects entrusted to us in the pursuit of pleasure. Similarly, we'd like to do better with the reception of a host of people. I don't think it's right, however, to set up a number over how many comers we're going to invite to this country. Rather, we try to do what we do well, that we take as many as we can. I think that's the reference rather than hang us on some number. I think refugees, especially from Syria, have come along just because we talk about things that way. But there's still a lot of work to do about the reception situation. For example, after the New Year's Expansion, we need to review it in what way we like, for example. maternal education, not just for this group, but for the existing immigrants. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u50	No matter the 4th mg. 10th par. A convergence on the length of a conference is suggested by the president that a meeting meeting can last longer than it is recommended today. Is there a vote for this proposal made by the president?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u51	A respectable president. Before that question is answered, I'd like to see the President for how long he intends to continue a meeting tonight. A man has a certain understanding that this is a late meeting that has been held in the budget of this fall council, where a financial committee received the budget and follow-up comments on the work programme almost one month earlier than usual, but when it arrived on the 2nd district, it exceeded the Council Work Programme. You can try to help work up that slope by having a night meeting here. But I don't think it's entirely unannounced that the senators need to speak here about the same important legal process as the budgets after midnight. So I in this room, whether an evening meeting in this sense is thought to be until midnight, which I don't consider unreasonable demands on him, or whether he intends to continue the meeting longer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u52	The President can't exactly say when he intends to complete a meeting tonight. He may pass through midnight, but it is not a plan for president to stay late in the night.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u53	A respectable president. It is with some reluctance, however, that I speak here because I share it with a respectable president, who deeply appreciates the General Work Programme. We were forced to discuss the spring Work Programme of the Allied Air, and actually until July, the historic year of July, we had to discuss the need for a work plan to be on its side and have it scheduled for five weeks to have the work programme expired. Now, according to the Work Programme, we are expected to finish here, not for Christmas, but for the day before Christmas. In spite of the changing of the council and the ultimate fact. The secretary of finance is here giving the Senate the first item on the agenda of the second Tuesday of September, so we began the 2nd. Last night's budget, December 8th, just because of handback reactions. Overseers' section. Therefore, it is unacceptable that a body of Congress is put in place to discuss matters here in the night when no one is to be accused except by a dignified president or the administrative point of authority.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u54	A respectable president. We've waited a long time to get the budget bill to cover 2nd. So when it does, there is no time to run the discussion about it on 24 hours a day. It's no big deal to be here until midnight. We can stay from morning to midnight in this discussion, but being here after midnight doesn't seem possible. I wish the President would try to cooperate with us senators in doing this decently. It is not easy to offer what we have been waiting for for for months to discuss this matter at night. I'd like us to discuss this in daylight, at least at night, and that the president will determine it here and now that a meeting meeting will be completed at twelve o'clock. We can start early in the morning.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u55	A respectable president. It's hard to talk about in daylight because coffee late is getting dark. This time there would be a brief meeting. But there's a very long talk card in the budget bill, and there's both management and government opposers, and it's perfectly normal for a person to express himself extensively on that subject. I would like to propose to the president that we have a longer meeting for the evening or the night after an incident where we could have a chance to discuss these matters. A number of talks were delivered yesterday, if not all of the outstandingly good and informative talks in which men gave their judgment on the committee. [[All good.]] I will give a talk today, along with several other candidates. I urge the President that we have a meeting until after the night, and even into the night if necessary, because human heart is so strong that it applies to the government and the government of opposers. I don't really understand why men make comments about how we work the rest of the way. There's nothing wrong with that. It must be customary to take action from time to time and to be ready to work ahead. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u56	A respectable president. I would like to agree with the final speaker that we are accustomed to work late at this workplace. I'm so excited to hear speeches on the budget bill that I can't wait, so I suggest that we don't take too much discussion on this team, but let's get into the discussion about the budget, which is, of course, a very important case and a big deal for this fall council. I'm sure there's a better chance that meetings will be shorter if we start earlier, I think that'll help. [[Up front.]] For example, I'm not going to make use of all my time right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u57	A respectable president. It's not that I or any other government senators, I imagine, that nothing about it would happen here night and night to discuss matters that really interests us. However, I feel that it is polite when the second issue is over. is about to begin, and they are still in the first speech not to invite them to give the first talk at two and three o'clock in the morning or after midnight. You're still in the first talk. That's why I want to challenge the highest. To consider where we are in the discussion, the president considered the matter. It may be a matter of opinion when another talk is given, even though the discussion will delay until evening and night. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u58	President. This isn't one of those family-friendly jobs. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u59	A respectable president. I thank the president for the answer, although I have not thought of it, and I just want to say that if a president would like to be authorized to go past midnight, I wish he would do so by vote. I would have understood that if there were to be a recommendation here to continue the meeting until midnight, and if the president could arrange that time in some way so that members of the council would feel that it is kind and acceptable, it would certainly be possible to revise that position. But I have to say, there is no doubt that people have to give their first talk on Icelandic budget at night. I'd also like to say that the board of directors has made a huge mistake on the speed of a case here, which has had to be expediently corrected, as we have recently been in the legislation on the swelling of banks where we in the control situation had to assist in correcting the failings of timelessness. [[The president calls.]] We can't burn on that one more trip.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u60	V.E.G. President. I'm glad we're going to have a meeting until night, because we don't need it. There are many who need to express themselves, and many who want to hear what we have to say. I'm not completely aware of what's right for humans. Now it's a 2nd bill. They have been waiting for it, and now that it is known, we want to discuss it only for a certain time. I admit I don't quite understand it, so I encourage president to keep us up until night and stay here as long as we need. Let's just keep going until the next few days. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u61	A respectable president. We are not opposed to talking about this for as long as it takes. What we are kind to wish for is to deliver our first talks at night. I'm ready to show up here at 6:00 in the morning and start if we stop at a reasonable time tonight, and stay all morning and late tonight. We are starting this discussion when people are going to their homes. It's a question of whether we need something to reconsider our work here so that healthy, ordinary A-people get their dream of talking here with people who wake up instead of people who sleep.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u62	A respectable president. I'm not complaining about going through the night if that's what I'm changing. But I don't think it's just us senators. I think it's mostly about those outside the community who want to follow up on the discussion and what's going on at the great General Assembly. [[Up front.]] I'm not sure they want to stay up day and night waiting for the right talks. [[Take up the front: Hear, hear]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u63	Mr. President. I think of the information presented in the Daðason on the Mount. Einar It may be possible to agree that if the rest of us could talk in the morning, all the candidates on the rosary would deliver their talks. But the situation is 2nd. the budget was scheduled for November 27, but now December 9th. And everybody knows why this discussion was so delayed, that's because more of the budget committee didn't complete jobs until some news on Saturday before the weekend. So the board of directors has to blame no one but itself. Government and more items, the leading legal committees, are responsible for the fact that the matter has been delayed far beyond the work programme, and there will be little time left in December. I say for my part, Mr President, that according to the custom, there would be no reason to disagree about a night meeting, and if the situation was grossly compatible about finishing work at midnight on the second day in a row, I would not resist it. But if a president is asking for a warrant for an open night meeting and can't tell how far into the night it is supposed to be, it is only natural to make comments. So I ask the president again kindly: Is it not possible to resolve the matter a little better and even avoid a disagreement? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u64	A respectable president. It's different for me before. I would like to point out that, among other things, there has been a disorder of the council's work plans, for the government has been quite busy this autumn. That's all there is to say. [[Up front.]] Then it's just that, a respectable president, here's one senator who's holding one big plagion in the middle of nowhere. þm. Össur's Ossphéinsson, and it's a developing cohesion agency. [[...proved by...]] There's only one agency being pushed into the Ministry, and it's all in-- [[It's the front call of the Senate Hall.]] A respectable president. Maybe you can hit the bell? There's something very agitated in the gym. [[It's the front call of the Senate Hall.]] It's just that we're all upset because there's some kind of dysfunction of the council. [[The president calls.]] You know, Mr. Honorable President, we often spoke into the night during our last term. The EU was involved. It was Icesave. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] Three times. [[The president calls.]] They were always trying to change the constitution. [[Up front.]] The bank account, correct. I support a night meeting, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u65	Mr. President. All the Congress is aware of my position on a meeting of the night. I have sometimes said that a senator will not be built until he has seen a day rising out the window of the House. [[Up front.]] Looks like there's no need to hold that back. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir a couple of nights during the council, since apparently she has not yet come up with the situation. [[Right.]] Here we go. A senator who drags me into this discussion, but I'm not even Mr. President, on the rosary. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] If it's required that I put myself on the rosary to celebrate a few Masses over it, I'm prepared to do that because the fact is that we are in this position because of failure. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir can't do it. Its slugs on the leading legal committee are now being suggested that the senators work not just for days but nights to earn it - well, I don't want to say what came to mind. [[The president calls.]] [[Set it up: make it happen.]] I'm not going to say laziness and inhumanity, but at least I'm not going to have the ability to lead the legal committee. [[The president calls.]] Let us not forget that for this fine senator, a council member was quick about two weeks, but she is still ten days behind schedule, and I am ready for the next council to make up for her fraud on the highest legal committee. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u66	Mr. President. It's worth just one Mass, I think, the one that's been presented here. I agree, of course, with a budgetary committee, and its predecessors were very late with an enormous arrangement for 2nd. ... abundant. They were not discussed with the committee. In fact, this was not an opportunity because the matter is scheduled so soon afterward that members of the committee in the smaller part of the legal committee needed the time from the proposals being submitted and until the discussion began to take over the committees. The situation now is the responsibility of the government, but there is no need to pin it on any of the smaller issues. What filibuster? The modifications were just made. They're the ones we're talking about, there's nothing that's disturbed, nothing's disturbed this financial debate. Here, almost only legal committees have spoken outside the chairman of the United States, who spoke last night, until midnight. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. What's the delay? I also ask for what was the contents of the discussion at the outset, that we found no longer than midnight.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u67	V.E.G. President. What I'd like to do is, because people are discussing it now, that it needs to be covered late into the night, that at a Senate committee I've been on the last council, the General Assembly meeting day was changed so that it would be the second Tuesday of September, instead of October 1. Why was this done, Mr. Honorable President? Yes, just to give a budget a little more time to win the budget and bring it to Congress on time. Now it has been observed that the current budget is under the lead. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir and Guðul Þór Þórðarson, son of vice president, is ten days behind schedule of 2nd. ... abundant. One morning, we on the Premier committee read about it in the papers that Vigdís Hauksdóttir had announced 2nd report. Money would not be needed at the right time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u68	Of course.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u69	It's an unsurpassed plan, and as we have seen, there's a little bit of a financial committee that makes us at this time's pace here. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, it is not advisable to make this work by sitting late at night giving them first talks at 2nd. ... abundant.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u70	V.E.G. President. A little over a year ago, they ordered the highest power. Healthcare Minister Kristján Þór Júlíusson, new director of the health care unit in Reykjavík, U.S.A. I'm told that that man is a fine man and a nice doctor. I don't know how good he is, but he's tried to get himself a field in that field, both as president of a private health facility in Sweden and as one of the founders of a company that wanted to specialize in a travel-related medical service, Nordic Health Pro ehf., in 2010. Soon after being appointed, he began talking about the importance of using marketing solutions to health care.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u71	The President's asking for a sound in the Senate Hall. Well, at least not at all. A senator with a strong voice also needs a sound.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u72	He began to talk about the importance of the introduction of market motivation into the medical clinic and that the Contestance must play a key role. This was the perfect way to walk at the highest. Kristján Þór Julietsson's health Júlíusson, who last week appeared on the national television and whispered to the people that this is exactly what woke him up, that the money was with the patient. This is the formula of Milton Friedman and his associates on the way to the market of health and education. This isn't quite new in Iceland. For example, we know this from the X - ray service, where funds were reduced to the land hospital, where he could no longer demand, and money would accompany the patient to Domus Medical, which soon would be better equipped than the land hospital. This is reality. Now, in the front page of the newspaper, we get a black - colored message that the person who expresses himself on the future development of the health system in Iceland - what would that be? That's the head of the Contestant Board. I'd like to draw the nation's attention to one thing, that's the difference between the forwarding party now and the former D.A. Government and the forwarding group of in 1995◯2003 that then he held to the Independence Party and took care of it. [[The president calls.]] Siv Friðleifsdóttir, Jón Kristjánsson, and Ingibjörg Pálmadóttir, took care of this. Everything is left behind now. Now in market areas. If the General doesn't stop this, I'll direct it to the nation. [[The president calls.]] We have to rise up against the Independence Party plans to introduce marketing transactions to health care in Iceland. We are not supposed to let them get away with destroying the Icelandic health system. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u73	The President reminds us of what? Councilmen to respect deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u74	V.E.G. President. The quality of social security will now rise by 9.7%, according to the proposals of the greater section at the council. By the end of the year, the improvement increased by 3%. The increase now takes into account the reevaluation of Iceland's Economic Standards from November onward and the development of a pay sheet on pay cut. If we also consider an increase in 2014 to be a cumulative 17.1% increase as prices increase by 7.1%. Everyone sees that this is a significant improvement and a significant financial gain to the groups that take benefits from the social security system. Beers aren't pay. That is why we have a law at 69 C.E. Social Security Act that they are reviewed annually. That's what we do here in December, every year. As a result, by the end of the New Year, improvements increased by 3%. The senators who fought to get this law into our laws did so to ensure that benefits would rise each year, either in terms of pay or in terms of price. Even if pay did not increase, improvements would be reviewed. This is the difference between us talking about improvement and not pay. We make sure that it is always taken into account by improving the benefits. It's important. This government has put more funding into this system and has produced more changes than we have seen in recent years. The first thing we did was go into the social security and decommissioned the previous left-human government that attacked these same people they're trying to dust, that they're the people who are trying to save everything. [[The president calls.]] You must look at the whole project, look at the activities of the last government, instead of calling on a knight as the lesser part of the council is trying to do now. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u75	V.E.G. President. I had a little foreword last night to what I'm going to talk about right now, i.e. U.S. Department of Money Policy. She met this morning and published her decision to keep operating growth unchanged. The Commission concluded, with permission of the highest power. President: ▪ Pancreatitis was 2% in November. It has increased less recently than predicted because the reduction in global raw prices and oil prices and increases in the crews of the kroner have weighed against domestic prices. This is wrong. Inflation last month was 0.3%. However, housing increased by 1.8% and raised inflation to 1.8%. Thus, people continue to fuel domestic cost increases by maintaining operating growth to 5.75%. Actually, they are 6.25% as advertised abroad. And again, the Navy bank offers a waxing feast that has led me to ask how money has penetrated the country at the invitation of the Secret Bank and what problems may arise there. Surprisingly, in addition to this, the late bat lowers bound bound bounds to 1.5%, bringing upon them abduction, which, of course, is inflation. This decision by the Federal Bank this morning is a fine example of one inadequacy and discouragement. It seems that no human has the ability or courage within that table that dares to live by what is really happening here in economic affairs. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u76	V.E.G. President. I'm going to be like the first speaker, giddy. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson, talking about the money. Before I go to them, I want to say the word. paritaprevir At Konráðsdóttir Kálsdóttir, she did well over what had been done here during the election period for older citizens and disability. There will always be an unfair comparison when we are talking about real - life statistics and such percentages when it comes to raising money. This morning's financial policy committee's decision to keep steering growth unchanged to 5.75% is reasoned with the statement that despite the intensive economic growth and continued improvement in the labour market, which in other words means that there is negligible relaxation, if any, the inflation ratings have improved from November and, in the past, the low prices of oil and the stronger dollars that hold back the prices and thus offset the greater prices or the pressure to move the public's surmounters into the price store. It may not be much news, as I said, but in other words it is that international prices are returning to improved businesses and that keeps the price back here. The situation in Europe is the opposite. In Denmark, fliers for a long time have been less than 0.75% with huge costs and damage to the dance financial system. It's not exactly where it ends. However, at the end of this study, I would like to point out that the money policy committee decided to lower the commitment right here and hopefully there will be more information on the decision to find in the financial conferences board. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u77	President. December 9, i.e. Today, international day against corruption is each year. In a declaration from the United Nations Organization, which deals most with corruption, among other things, it says, by permission of presidents: ▪ We need a powerful alliance of governments, professionals, civil society, educational institutions, and media to combat corruption and promote new moral standards. Corruption is also considered the largest barrier to global economic and social developments. In one recent year, corruption was considered to be low in Iceland on international standards, almost not to be measured. Now we know better. Depravity was endemic, with serious consequences for society all. Sadly, the level of political corruption is on the rise again. It is corruption when members of Congress take the interests of stakeholders within a council that has been observed in recent times. It is a sign of corruption when members of Congress change rules, e.g. in a financial committee for the distribution of funds, as it can best be seen solely in order to make personal arrangements for public money without any professional discussion or necessary transparency. It is a sign of corruption when ministers drive construction projects based on 100 - year - old drawings just to satisfy their needs and interests about old buildings. It is corruption when political groups that have accepted high support from stakeholders in the commercial world take special advantage of them at the General and use public funds. It is corruption when ministers and members of Congress make special application of matters that involve them personally more than others. The members of the United States must make sure that corruption does not thrive and that corruption does not exist at the General Assembly. The work of senators must be above any doubt in this regard. It must be possible to rely on members of the council and members of the Parliament. Sadly, this is not the case, and it must be handled by the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u78	A respectable president. Like everybody knows what to write. Parliaments under their word to the Constitution, filling out a standard interest file that is open to all, working according to their convictions and rules of Congress. The council is now working on a special moral code. I've read a proposal for a synopsis on the Code of Morality for the Generals. I generally care about ethics, and they should sharpen the rules by which an individual should conduct his or her duties. In the above - mentioned Synod proposal, c under the prescripted principles for conduct, the people of the council are not to cast reproach on the Council or harm its image by their conduct. And about behavioral duty, by permission of the President: ▪ The members of the Council shall respect, status, and work, and follow principles of conduct, and do nothing by actions that may damage reputation, belief, and trust in the common people at the General Assembly. I'm normally in favor of the kind of thinking that comes out here. It reflects the norms of civility and sociality. I also know that the Council does not have general confidence among the people and that the people will do their job and conduct. Senators are under a microscope. In talks and publications, members of Parliament have often discussed this position and declared their willingness to change the appearance of this negative. So I think of the countenance that appears to the people of the land, as reflected in negative and disturbing frontal noises when a member of the council moves his case out of this chair. Learning to do this gradually destroys the self - esteem of members of Congress and damages image, reputation, belief, and trust in the public at the General Assembly. So I'm asking myself, " Is this behavior in conflict with the standards that the senators are now working on? '
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u79	Mr. President. It is important that we be talking about the interest of older citizens and the disability of not just talking about dollars and dollars on behalf of government funds. It is important that behind all the numbers, people are and whether they can survive what they have. What I would like to do is talk about the words of Tómas the Guðbjartsson of Guðvath, a doctor of the Land Hospital, who uses strong terms about the committees'committees. Also, I would like to discuss some of the proposals of a greater proportion of the hospital budget for extra funds to ensure basic services and housing improvements. Tómas reviews what is mainly involved, including the science probe and the hepatitis project, which the chairman of the budget board has discussed. She says that the State escaped relatively inexpensive from the project, calling it a side project because a private person has earned a large contribution, whether by individuals, associates, or other such. In fact, what is most recent at the hospital does not focus on the overwhelming contribution of the government to the Hospital. As we know, the Icelandic genetics of posology paid off, doctors have contributed money for the hepatitis drug, etc. The chairman of a legal committee speaks of the historical reconciliation and assessment of the completed hospital and does not need to do it again because it is likely to lead to comparable conclusions, that the hospital as such is not badly expelled, and so it is unfortunate when it is spoken of looking for increased donations that are not looked to the reality. [[The president calls.]] As has been attributed, this gathering is nearly one third when the total cost of the State is spoken of, but the need for the hospital is increasing, including Because of the growth of senior citizens.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u80	Mr. President. I have this amazing presentation of the management board in connection with the benefit of the albino and microenergy pensioners. The fact is, men shoot lightly past the facts. It is true that basic pensions increased by 3.6% by 2014, and the increase was then reduced to 3% by 2015. In both these years, pay card has increased more than this. We're in a hurry. Looking back on the last two years of this government, you will see a failure in the amount of money this has changed and if you look at the trend in a pay market. This year, in all general labour contracts, due to the least possible increase in the minimum wage rate of 3% in the year. We're in a hurry. It doesn't mean much to go into billions unless you take into account the growth in the systems, simply the increase in those who receive these payments, and many other factors. That's not an acceptable statement. There is one very close example of how to deal with these groups if a collective agreement is made with significant increases in the middle of the year. It is 2011. At that time, collective labour agreements had a specific increase in the lowest remuneration rate. It was quite expensive treaties, such as those, that took a major step in the administration of governments and societies. It wasn't good this year, but what did men do? On June 1, 2011, the base level of pension and disability increased by 8.1%. The minimum change target increased by 12 points. K. On June 1, 2011, all of these systems received 50 levels. K. individual payments, such as the general labour market. It is totally incompatible with what the current government is going to do and most of it, to bring backtight corrections for this year, and to accept the average development of pay rather than the increase of the lowest wage. It's been carried out by microorganists and pensioners on both sides by the government's implementation. [[The president calls.]] We're in a hurry. It's just a fact, no matter what anyone says. And are you going to let it go that way for Christmas?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u81	V.E.G. President. Everyone agrees that health care and therefore health care should be as good as possible. Have we Icelanders proud of it. Technology and knowledge have improved dramatically, as well as the development of drugs, which are always more effective in medicine. But all of this costs money, which isn't all gathered by trees, and then the trouble starts. How can these material be saved when there is always more money in health care, normal? One is the unremarkable method, though. There are prevention measures where they apply. They can save enormous amounts of money and have been studied with various diseases. The person quoted such preventive measures against alcohol and alcohol abuse here in a speech chair some time ago. Besides better health, what's more economic cost than promoting prevention? Health measured in money is also a fact. In the Stykisholimi hospital, there is a research department for back patients where people are actually taught by training a variety of ways in which they can heal themselves or hold back their backs, thus responsible for their back problems. In the fall, 600 people in the waiting list were in the back room of Stykkisolmi. Says that waiting list more than many words about the results of reverse surgery. This medical procedure can be classified as preventive or self - help. This has been done through financial economic research, which is not a time to be traced here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u82	A respectable president. Today, the shocking news from the United States, France, and other places is saying that extremeism and racism are taking root. The comments of the president of the Republicans on the ban on the arrival of Muslims in the United States are frightening as well as subjugated to its supporters. Happily, many responded, but we have reason to pay close attention to the progress of the discussion on these matters in that country. The victory of the extreme right party Front National in the early district election in France during the last weekend is also a major concern, while the baseline of the party is based on extreme nationalistic emphasis. The provinces in France are very influential in the country, and the results of the campaign to the local government often indicate currents and policies in the European Union. At the National Assembly of Iceland, it is a heavy duty to be alert to the fact that extreme discussions, nationalism, and prejudices do not take root in Iceland. Sadly, it is starting to be seen on social media and perhaps more. The Red Cross, various members, the City Theater, and others deserve to open up the discussion, and I would like to use the opportunity here in the General Meeting's public talk and to thank them especially for their contribution in these matters. I reiterate that the responsibility of the General Assembly is great, and I encourage all members of Congress to resist all discussions, demonstrations, and measures aimed at breaking up our society instead of uniting it. We must set a good example and thus use our words in this discourse that the people of the land believe that we can talk about important, controversial matters with little value and no disrespect for one another. All forms of prejudice involving discrimination and disrespect for the beliefs, customs, and culture of others are dangerous to any community. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u83	Mr. President. By your permission: ▪ The objective of these laws is to provide disabled people with equality and comparable standard of living with other members of society, providing them with conditions for normal living. This is the case with the law on the affairs of disabled people. So you shouldn't have to mention it often here. Unfortunately, I do, and I will not tire of reviewing here what was agreed and what was promised to disabled people. Equality, comparable standard of living, a condition for normal living. The law clearly states that the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people should be taken into account. Respect and consideration are the main factors of that contract. The law also recommends the completion of a work on the implementation of user - controlled personal assistance in 2016 as a principal form of services to disabled persons. How is this MPA project working to benefit governments in order to fulfill its obligation to disabled people? The mission is to a complete standoff, Mr. President. The government pretends they can't find any crowns for it. Yet the highest will cry. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. Secretary of the budget: Good, kind! This good stuff doesn't seem for disabled people. What does this mean for disabled people? Its MPA contracts are not sufficient for labour agreements, training and disease prevention. All of these, though, are doomed to cost. Some users are now charged with hundreds of thousands of dollars because of this. All NAP agreements in Reykjavíkurburg will expire at the end of the year. People who have these contracts are completely uncertain, and not just those people. The staff giving the MPA services don't know what happens then. What kind of work are these, Mr. President? These are shamefully wicked politics and devoid of poor management. Is this respect and consideration as the goal of legalizing the affairs of disabled people and the agreement of the United Nations totally based on? No. And it's the worst. It is a form of complete disrespect and indifference toward disabled people and their caregivers, their lives, feelings, and human dignity. We can do better, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u84	V.E.G. President. I received the previous day's answer to a question I asked to the highest level. Social and housing minister for violence against disabled women. The request was followed by a discussion and the cover of Castlight's discussion of violence against disabled women. There are good and positive things in the answers to the highest. Ministers, such as that a children's house will be funded to provide staff with increased education and training to specialize in providing disabled children who are suspected of being involved in the use of violence as well as for printing and distributing educational material to those working with disabled persons. Of course, this is only good and good. However, there are other aspects of a minister's reply that I consider thought thought thought thought sobering and that we need to pause. On the one hand, there is a need to be varied, controlled by personal assistance. Hv. paritaprevir In fact, Páll Valur Björnsson's speech before me considered where that assignment is to be carried out. There's something else. The minister's answer says: ▪ The importance of disabled people living in a household situation that resembles what is commonly practiced cannot be overemphasized. ◯ V.E.G. President. For this to be possible, disabled people have to live in terms that resemble what is commonly practiced in the community and that are not up to 170,190. K. in the monthly extension. There must always be talk of things that turn toward disabled people as a whole. You can't take it out and talk about it in small boxes. [[The president calls.]] When we are talking about how we will prevent violence, we also need to talk about how disabled people are able to live with dignity in Icelandic society.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u85	President. Yesterday, a vote for a retrospective reimbursement for sensibilities and high-ranking pensions was made. Bjarni Benediktsson's financial and economic minister explained his vote. There he included the various acts of kindness of the government from 2013 onward and 2014 onward and the likes of other members of the council here. Senators Unnur and Steingrímur J. Sigfússon have thought a little bit of it. However, it's about 2015 and actually in the context of the pay development that has taken over all government employees, including us senators. The question was simply, are we ready for the same benefit as old age and disability pensioners? The answer was: No. Hv. paritaprevir Konráðsdóttir Konásdótsdóttir referred to the law and the highest. The minister of finance did the same. He said that old age and disability pensions were raised in accordance with law. This is ironic because the vote was about changing the law, and it was about setting laws to improve their wages in the same way that we members of Congress received. This sounds really strange to me, because it doesn't matter if the coin they make is called pay or compensation. [[The president calls.]] This is the money they use to buy and absorb. It was about justice, the same as did members of Congress and other public employees, and the answer was:
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u86	V.E.G. President. If I were a what? paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's rock mask, I wouldn't have been in a pita to compare the work and success of this government with the last government when it comes to the terms of disability and other pensioners. I just wouldn't have thought of it. The first work of the last administration here in the spring or in the summer of 2009 was to cut off in a dramatic way in terms of the death rate for most poor and pensioners, not for those on the edge of the striped and for everyone else. [[Consider:..... to consider the Independence Party.]] About the middle of 2011, there's a problem. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's mask to be proud of the added value of collective agreements. It's very pathetic to listen to this. What is the first thing that the present government did when it came to power in the summer of 2013? She withdrew all the reductions on which the left control had set.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u87	Who just came from the sky.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u88	It doesn't matter. [["Noei,...]] What did this government do, and what did the other government do?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u89	It matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u90	[[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]] It's just the damages. [[The president calls.]] It's hard for you to accept this, I know it. [[For example: Do you remember this?]] Yes, I can read if I have time to read it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u91	Hv. paritaprevir Hermes the Brynjar of Níelsson has become.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u92	There were no impairments taken back until 2011. Is it really something to be proud of?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u93	Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u94	What did they do here in 2009? [[For the record: 2011.]] [[The president calls.]] I just can't talk, Mr. Honorable President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u95	The president will notice.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u96	I really need to start over. [[To the point: No, no, no.]] [[Case number two: correct.]] They're saying the right thing. In 2013, the decrease is taken back, and on these three budgets I have made, it costs $22.5 billion. [[Up front.]] Yes, there is. 22.5 billion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u97	Do you regret it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u98	No, I don't regret it. So now these reformers have been added to the average increase in pay. [[The president calls.]] They received 3% at the beginning of January as non-employees, and now the terms are comparable to the average increase for all candidates who have been negotiated. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u99	...live at 180. K. per month.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u100	I'm not talking about it. What, then, did humans live in the last term? [[The president calls.]] The senator knows that. No. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u101	The president asks why. Parliaments give speakers space to speak, and speakers ask to respect a talk period.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u102	A respectable president. In the complexity of the government, which has often been discussed here, the Allied Union with the Government has become my concern. In itself, I find it strange that members of Congress complain of a loss from government. If the General and the Government were in a relationship that you could expect to read a constitution, the General should in fact view himself as a government officer. Sometimes it is that way, but in reality it is not. In effect, the government controls the country. The most common question I get about the next election, total elections of 2017, is who I provide for myself as the other one or this minister. I often say, " It's the wrong question. ' The question we should ask ourselves is, How do you picture the relationship between the Generals and the government during the next term? If we seriously consider that question, then for now the secondary issue is exactly who will be the minister. There will be key factors in how power will be handled, how decisions will be made, how there will be objections and how the legislation will be maintained, and in the government. How do we let the Council act as the greatest organization in the country? We don't do this with some contours about who's going to be the next Minister here or there, or when, we do it by looking at the basics, looking at the system we're working on, the basic principles by which the People work by which the Republic operates as well as the government. In my opinion, the changes such as the changes between the government and the Generals require that ministers be not members of Congress. There is a discussion that we should take here more often and more. Therefore, I still want to suggest that we begin talking about the work of the Parliament and the arrangement at the General as our own matter. We're supposed to focus on it until we figure out how we're gonna make it work. I don't feel like it's working right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u103	A respectable president. We are beginning a new discussion of change proposals, 2 umm. of the budget bill and the adjustment proposals for what was first discussed at a meeting yesterday and gave them a number of excellent talks. I believe that it is right to a member of the budget board to consider in addition a few of the points that were presented there. Many fine talks were presented, and it is in the beginning to discuss only the work of a legal committee in this fall, which has been an unusually long period of pregnancy during the adjustments and discussions that brought up by the financial bill. Work on a financial committee is special in comparison with other members of the Parliament that there is a great deal of communication with many sources of information. In this fall, 42 visits were made to the Committee, 42 reviews, 42 societies, and others. This is actually the subject of these visitors and the comments of those who, in effect, make up the changes proposed by a financial committee. It is quite perturbing to watch and clean up as autumn has passed the focus of our guests'arrival. Our guests'emphasis on this time may have been primarily on their methods of transport reform, too little on these topics, and on communication and the focus of many rural communities on communication reforms. Many rural communities were deeply concerned about the management of small and mediumsized nursing homes or small nursing homes, which, due to their standards, have little cooperation or harmony with other institutions, simply because of geographic conditions, are located in such areas. Many rural communities discussed the issues of the disabled and their financial dealings. Most of the rural areas also presented challenges for reviewing financial relations between the state and the community. This is to my mind the big subject, or the subject, that most of our communities brought on the Board of Shepherds during this fall. They're not surprising, at least not the members of the tenants of a rural bill. The emphasis on the subject is also much similar to the emphasis on the meetings of the panels during the late autumn and was partially answered. The legislature board and later agreed to a budget bill. The big news about the budget that we now discuss is the huge financial expenditures of the state's financial agreements and other factors related to them. We're dealing with expenses at 33 billion, that's 33 billion bucks. in increasing financial expenditures for collective agreements. These expenditures are also added to other commitments made by the state's funds, such as pension bonds, which, according to a loose plan, can increase by about 100 billion dollars. That's a lot of money. It's a very big bite to swallow in one year. It's a lot of work to get through taking on these changes and getting us through this huge scrap. But the main project is to deal with matters in such a way that, eventually, the great improvement will turn to those to whom they are due, not all of us in the form of an inflation and a decrease in the level of purchase because of it or the subsequent failure. It's because of these big projects that we're not discussing a handsome share of state funds in this financial debate. There are also a number of other tasks and changes that the greater part will certainly take place there, such as the reduction in customs and the previous decline in goods, which are also compensation for the general public. The bill suggests improvements and improvements in social security and unemployment rates by 9.7% and has increased slightly since the year the bill was submitted in the fall. The increase should be valid from January 1, 2016. This increase will take into account the reevaluation of the Habitat's national forecast on pay scale, with the exception of pay. This is the increase in mean growth in both the current year and the next year. This means that the average increase of 2015, which was made on the same terms, was about 3%, so it was only ahead of the public market and then the increase now, 9.7%, meaning that over two years these payments have increased by 13%. Adding 2014, we're talking about a correct 17% rise in these payments, which is far beyond the price. I think it's important that we keep this in mind, as much as it is in the throwing light, about this precise budget and this important group of subjects, that we realize that rarely or never have been made as big a step to rise in this business as to actually improving the terms of the people who receive their payment. This is about 10.1 billion. in these terms, 20 billion in remunerations for collective labour agreements. The high pay rates that have been raised during the year and the rich demand for extreme compensation have in many ways made us numb to our size and reality. It's at least my feeling. It's a big root here. There is talk of high numbers and high percentages that have taken us a little out of touch with the reality we still need to see through and never lose sight of. I'm not going to say here that we can't see the future any other than taking some big jump. Even if you don't want to take a quick jump, it's a big jump right now. It's a lot of work to deal with getting down. And I'm not gonna say that we don't want to do better, because we want to do better, especially for the groups I mentioned that are already the social security and unemployment benefits I covered. But longer and larger steps hardly take place this time. It takes time to straighten out those chemicals and reach large conquests. But only again on visiting fellow rurals to the budget board. It is certainly a representative of rural society, many of which are large and strong, well - fired, but also representatives of rural society, which almost fight for their existence and right to exist. When I begin to address the major issues these communities present on the board of budgets, such as transport, telecommunications, nurses' affairs, and so forth, we must also remember that it is the role of the General Assembly and the Senate when it works to oversee the budgetary proposals to listen to the views presented there and in some way try to answer the comments that the rural communities present on a board of financial committees. Whether we are talking about a district week of the Generals, which usually follows the appointment of a budget bill or visits to a financial committee, the project is drawn up in wonder - how. The project is to answer how we can change the emphasis displayed on the bill in order to meet the wishes and requirements that are supported by rural communities, which are best familiar with their own habitats. It may be, therefore, interesting to quote the Committee's opinion of the legal committee, where we try to make them understand a few things, answer questions, and try to explain what at least more of the legal committee feels that there is a need to become a change or to what point more of the legal committee would like to encourage in the rest of this work. I'm going to make the first stop on transportation. I traced before me the enormous sums of government funds have to deal with paying due to new labour agreements. This may be the main reason why we do not have a budget for 2016 substantial and handsome sums of money to build up our infrastructure in transport workers, which we certainly need. This is simply said because we do not have money to do everything at once. This does not mean, however, that we need to give up or say that we can never go to real transportation. But the reality is that in many lands people have to shake on ruined dirt roads. We drive kids to school for a long time. We still use bridges, etc. I don't need to describe to the United States how the general condition of the road system is in some regions, although much and major improvements have occurred in recent years. All of this is all so that we need to consider, too, whether we can use some other means to build up our transport system. For example, we look at how much transportation we need to do on the southwestern corner, such as the new western road, the Sunway, and the decay of Southland. A greater proportion of the budget committees strongly recommend a search for other means of approach or other means of financing such projects to the extent possible. These are the largest constructions in the country. This is both a matter of interest and traffic safety that needs to be subject to improvements in many of these transport systems. I also say that we're pointing out that this does not mean that there will be a currency in that way some deductor on the southwestern corner will become superior to other legs, whether we are talking about the Svenyanes Way or the Southland Road. However, I think we've come to the point where we're going to make serious progress in these matters, we have to look for ways and other solutions to get us out of the stillness that unfortunately has been too long. But also so we can actually attack infrastructure. We must not lose sight of what we have to do in the business of our own government funds in order to free money there and not just say that we're going to take it on a road, for we also have to build up on this country ourselves, where there is less chance of financing other income stocks. It is the simplest and most efficient way to point out that the state as the executive and owner of large financial companies must be able in a short time to free them of property quickly and well and pay off debt. It is in itself our large budget team that we have to reduce to the rate of growth paid by the state funds. It is real resources that we could use to build up other structures of our country, whether we talk about transportation or the treatment of aging, and so on. The majority of them give special emphasis in their committee party that it takes fast and good to sell financial companies and reduce financial debt and to sell other societies and businesses as a trust fund, but on which the government itself is not necessary. A greater proportion of the legal committee also contributes to a large amount of improvements and changes in port expenses. The focus of the majority is primarily on steel panels and on land pores. It is simply about to surface such a situation on many of our docks, where the country provides a catch that we must no longer take up the necessary maintenance program. I also mentioned that the matter of communication is being prominent in rural governments to the financial committee. That lawsuit, or the emphasis, comes up above and above the list each year; in many ways, we can say that communication reform is now the most important project we can do in community affairs. There is much agreement in this council hall. I think it was important that we continue on that course, and more of the legal committees offer proposals to expand their budget. Today, it is suggested that there are about half a billion improvements in communications during 2016. That's a lot of money. Whether we go to the position of the state's treasure or whether we should be patient and slow down in that regard is a matter of controversy. But the need and need for improvement is strong. I think it's just as much here that we're dealing with whether certain settlements will become competitive over time. It is mentioned in the Committee that an internal minister's staff has identified the project and has provided suggestions on how to attack Iceland's light - optic disaster in areas where the market will not be solved. This may cost about $3 billion, but it should be made clear here that this is not the cost all of which is due. This will always be the work of the market, State Fund, or the telecommunication fund as its representatives, as well as the rest of the parties, whether they are communities or citizens. Half a billion for communications in the year 2016 is an enormous step, but it's still no bigger than that, so we're still dealing with the completion of phone plugs in Iceland, and connecting unconnected, as stated in Sign Language, which is attributed to the Commission's opinion of where the next project is being carried out, Drangsnes, Kopasker and Redfark, and then the first stage of building up the demand system and photodynamic lines of Iceland, as well as the common partnership in this chamber. I've often said that we don't really know what a positive effect we're getting by making modern communication in Iceland. I don't think anybody in 2015 or 2016 can tell exactly what it will change to have high - speed and real speed connections all over Iceland. There are newly created companies and new approaches to old and productive employment in the country that are linked to communications reforms. We're beginning to see that there's a local data plant, something we didn't have in our eyes just a year ago. This, however, is the reality. With improved communication, people have come to a place in life where it is possible. This may be a second priority for a greater proportion of the budget committees to make adjustments in this round. We have more important work to do, which are attributed to the Commission opinion, and I do not make a special subject here, except that it is normally part of the work of a financial committee to listen to the focus of the national community, a team of fellow members in the different communities. There's been quite a flash of evidence that there's been a lot of proposals for the northwestern district and the northwestern. I want to enter that discussion and discuss it from my viewpoint or from town to town for what it is. We don't run it in the Committee opinion, and I'm not going to trace it here in the public chairs how life or living in the United States has been brought together in the northwestern, public work has declined in recent years, and we're going to be left with a small range of professional lives. We have provinces, which, to a large extent, are based on rather monotonous employment. These are large sheep farms, which are the backlands of the Huns of Lakes and agricultural regions, and, in fact, have been exported in the area as well as in the province of Skavegarth. It was simply time for an effort to improve employment and living conditions in the provinces. It was the government's decision to attack a so - called northwest committee, and the budget changes reveal some suggestions adopted from that work. I also pause to mention that the Council itself concluded in January 2014 about the campaign in the East Hunsa County, which encouraged the development of a job structure and work that could support the development of employment in that area. The largest part of the budget is to make a suggestion that there will be about 30 million. K. to support the local community organization to actually implement this resolution by the Generalis, i.e. working on tasks that may possibly arise on the table. I see in a minority party announced yesterday that there is an aluminium in Skavegar. Actually, I haven't heard of anything in the province of Skagga Beach, but I've certainly had a discussion about an aluminium at a seaside station on the coast of Skagga. And whether it's an aluminium or any other option, it is extremely important for this region to become a powerful industrial structure, in whatever sector it is, since the General resolution goes out to support that energy produced in the province will be used in that location. We have also discussed this in a large part of the employment committee involved in rural development and also linked to other parts of the country, which have often been discussed as a result of failings and monotonous working conditions, such as the Thomson of the land. We suggest that our committee party continue to work with the Skaft River Swamp. In recent years, there has been a series of high - risk projects that have been working on. What we propose is that with the population of Thomson and in cooperation with the State, we will have to try to shed light on how to build up the local infrastructure rapidly and effectively, and we are primarily talking about telecommunications and electrical plugs, or reliefs for electricity, power use is also often mentioned. We will draw up General Parliamentis's conclusions on regional settlements from spring 2014 that discuss looking for ways to strengthen communities that do not enjoy supporting their use through the fishing system. We know that many communities are using instruments from the fishing system by assigning settlements. However, in agricultural areas, there has not been a wealth of resources in terms of what tools and tools we might have to promote their habitats. That's why we're making the suggestion to be in Level 6. If a general warrant exists that land in the Skaft River or land is commonly owned by the Earth's Fund, it will be sold. Whether it will be in part or in all the way as a result of such release, there will be another matter that will be used to promote infrastructure. This leads us to the greater part as one of the factors that we have to make up our minds and show up for policy purposes, e.g. How we approach the establishment of a Kingdom earth. There were comments on visits to the professional committee in the fall from quite a number of societies on how to keep their arms around the state, how to deal with the change of plans. I'm not going to follow a long story about how it came about for the state's treasure to have many soils. It's a long story and, in fact, something quite remarkable. The fact is, the state has several hundred ground, many of which, in fact, are dwelling, and the state has tenants. It has not always been successful in renewing an apartment on that earth. For example, in the Swamp of Thomson, there are unusually many Kingdom Halls. It has been falling out of the past few months, and it has had time to think about fine things that would have been possible if people had thought about it in time. I don't think there's any abnormal intentions in that subject, I don't intend to say it, but at the very least, it's decided that there seems to be a lack of policy in that subject. Therefore, we encourage a greater part of the legal committee that government policy and government ownership will be taken into account and will try to shape future policies on that subject. But look to Thomson Shrapps separately, there are a number of fields and parts of the earth that could both be combined with other earth's natural products, i.e. with an open sale of the state's funds or open sale through the state's market, and other farms that alone can be sold for sale, could then be built up with a handsome farm that would once again strengthen and reside in the Roft year's Scrotum. This is one of the few additional examples of the many projects that were placed on the board of the budget committee by visitors during this fall. We believe that it is proper to give attention to some kind of project that may continue to respond to the pleas of the local government that this presents for us. Mr. President. I'm not going to have many more words about visiting the branch office in the fall and the work there. I would like to say, though, that on the basis of a discussion on how to prepare adjustments and how to do things, there is no rule or one way in which we have done it is always more correct than others. I would like to highlight that, at least where I know, local and regional legal committees are somewhat compatible with the terms they receive during the district weeks, and the normal conversation with the citizens of the country is being made, the emphasis that is drawn up by the rural communities is natural for us to answer in some way. If we are not going to do so, we should also say that we are not going to respond in any way. I think it's a very valuable conversation. I say for my part that I didn't want to miss that time, and the meetings we had in the fall, the 42 visits that clearly drew out to us what the people's interests are, where the fires burn. Of course, we are not responding to all of that, but we may have encouraged some progress. We may have turned off some fires, and we may have started some progress.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u104	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for an excellent speech. I've been talking about the work that's been doing on the change plans for the rest of the sector and the government. That's right, as a matter of course. A senator says that we have had many visits, especially from our rural communities, and he knows that there is a great need in many areas. But I haven't thought of what I just heard in the fall from my rural society as something we didn't hear last year and met. I'm worried if the government and the Ministers don't have the same conversation with the people of the country, and they don't have a feeling about where the need is; if the financial committee and the more part are somehow supposed to be getting the government around because they don't have the same information as we do. I think everyone knows, for example, that transportation funds are far too small. I don't need my community to tell me, but I can quite agree that this is a good conversation we have. I don't like the work of changing plans. I want to ask you why. A member of Parliament: Does he believe that the Ministers do not know what the situation is in society and cannot do a financial bill that responds where the need is? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u105	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. I don't agree with the senator's approach as far as the Ministers don't know what the emphasis is. The Ministers are now usually an exception, and they are all members of Congress. They sit in the same meeting week as we do, and they hear the same emphasis. It is also their job to respond to the emphasis and comments coming from people and communities and citizens in this country, just as we do on a budget committee, which is our work on changing, making adjustments to the budget bill at any given time. We're supposed to do it, and whether the adjustments are few, detailed, or many, that's a decision at any given time. But in each of the main points, there are proposals made by the government that are sent to a financial committee to treat also the responses to comments that have been made in this bill; this is the case as before. Then it is simply part of a budget board to decide whether he wants to step in or take on more matters, and that is how the purchases have taken place.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u106	A respectable president. I just experience it a bit so that the budget bill is not ready at all when it is submitted. That's really what I'm making comments to. As the financial bill is better, the less adjustments are expected to be made. Also, I would like to ask about one matter that I consider quite serious. The budget is being set up in individual organisations and groups to pay off the trade halls or to prevent the operating halls next year. I find at least four such teams in the motions of changing. I'm worried that's not being taken care of. Have a what? Since members of the greater legal committee take on this assignment, are they going to observe that the 15 million who are going to pay up the management house are to be used in detail? Have they made an assessment of the activities of the institution? And who's going to supervise the failure to return to business after two years? Why do people not trust the problems they face in these projects? I don't think anything of this. Who decides that this institution should get benefits because a management body is imminent and not some other institution? How can more things make decisions like this?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u107	Mr. President. I think the council should have the confidence to make changes in the budget bill like all the other primes that come to us. As to whether a state's equality or a larger part of the budget is being used to handle equality, I just want to say: In the case where I believe the senator was referring to - 15 million. K. The budget for Snortoru, at the city of Smokeholts, so we're just talking about it; we don't need to play any speculation about it -- he also forgets to say that the budget is expected to have an agreement with that institution. The Commission's business to the budget was about the fact that the situation and other factors are due to changes previously made in the financial relations of the Agency with the State. That's what the budget board is doing, and that's how it works. Since we don't have time to talk about the Agency's activities, we don't do it this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u108	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator before the talk, where he was in many places at the end of a big issue. I'd like to start my previous answer by asking what question is. The senator that due to the payment on collective agreements, there would be no room to put money into the infrastructure, i.e. Transportation. Now I would say that it's a simple matter to have an increased taxation or to give up some taxation proposal. But let that be the case. Hv. A senator also said that there were more ways to finance the project than I understood that he was not talking about paying a certain amount of money. I'd like to pray. A senator must be a little clearer. If I get it right by what I'm talking about. A senator says taxation doesn't come there, which way is it. A senator is exaggerating? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u109	Mr. President. It's simply my reference that we can't use the same ones twice. When there is a great deal of money to cover, which are significant increases due to collective agreements, we cannot use that money on transportation. Hv. A senator asks what methods I am talking about in the transport system, and I shall also be completely clear: I can see simply that it is very easy and that my observation is worth, for example, the company of Shack, or the ideologies that build and that have run them for this time, and I have advanced them to develop the Western way and build the Sunway. On the other hand, I agree with it and say: There is no way to pay dues from one suggestion or from the capital. We must take them at least from the other two main routes if we move them as soon as that would result in a solidarity.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u110	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for the answer. I'm a lot closer, which is just fine. We, for example, can later debate whether we feel that this is a reasonable option. But I'd like a later answer to my question, just to come on one thing. Hv. A senator spoke of visiting at a financial committee, referring to the local government and the fact that much had been said about the affairs of disabled people. I find it personally a little strange that the NPA project is discussed in a section in the opinion of the greater part that bears the weight - bearing legislation. Then I ask, "How much law do you weigh for who? " At least not the disabled. I'd like to hear more about it. Does the senator think that the cost split has to be changed? Does the State need to enter this work to a greater extent than today and thus change the cost change and increase the share of the State in this service?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u111	Mr. President. Thank you, too, for the second question. I noticed in yesterday's discussion that this part of the committee was just wrong. I am kind and obliged to try to make things right. On the other hand, since we speak of burdensome legislation, we direct established legislation on the Food Institute and Control and how it has gone out of control. On the other hand, my nose was on the side of the disabled, for it was clear, and I spoke in my background that many of my rural society believed that this business was a permanent business. We're not judging the suit specifically. We simply say that when laws are made, they must be absolutely financial and must know exactly what they are doing. However, a greater proportion of legal committees decided, and it is true that it is said, not to go into that area and make major adjustments because of the speech of the disabled on a broad basis. We learned that they were being discussed in the general relations between the state and the local community on financial issues. We expect this conclusion to come from their discussion, so I do not express myself directly or directly answer the other questions of the senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u112	A respectable president. I think it's important to include only the subjects that were being discussed on the subjects of the disabled. I think it's very important that we realize that NPA is here to stay and is just one of the resources for disabled people and, of course, has to finance them, such as other resources. People with NAPA contracts, that's not how to save somehow by not leaving them with NAPA contracts. There's always gonna be some choice. They'll always need some service. Thus, MPA is one of the funds that needs to be financed. But I would like to ask. A member of the Parliament in public construction and investments of infrastructure. Here, at the Council of 2012, an investment plan was set up for three years, which was partly financed by banks and part of the profit of the fish fund. It included a marvelous injection in investments in transport edifications and on national projects, such as the national parish program. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask you what. A senator because I sense his interest, and I share him, on an investment in the interior. I think it's necessary to attack such an investment. Why couldn't we stick to that plan?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u113	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Why could it not be maintained, and what basis was behind it? You can give lengthy talks about it. It was simply an assignment when a new government began, and she decided to put it aside. That's kind of the answer. We share quite a common interest in attacking the infrastructure and investments in these matters, and I think we have to look for ways to do this other than just looking for taxes and tax gains. We made some changes as the senator, which would have been necessary or called funding for our assignment, we gave other emphasis. But it goes on to say completely that we will continue to make money out of these banks. We have other priorities, but we have nothing to do with having to work on such projects and investments.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u114	A respectable president. With others, I took the initiative that this investment plan was adopted. It went on with a very simple ideologies, that it was justified in taking part in the government's interests, on the one hand, fishing the resources and the financial system, to invest in infrastructure and competitive funds in future commercial interests. We are now seeing things that could, of course, be told at that time and can still be said, that lack of investment, necessary investment, and shortage in maintenance is nothing but borrowing. There's always time for this to come, and the need is growing. We would be seeing a whole different landscape now in investments in the interior if we had stuck to that plan. She walked out on--what? Partly taking advantage of money and investing in it, and it's all been going along in terms of profit. An investment plan was set aside to make a success of it, and it has yielded better and better, in part, the profit of the fish resource, which was supposed to have paid for it too. [[The president calls.]] Hv. A senator talks about other emphasis on this money. What are they?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u115	Mr. President. I traced it in my speech earlier. But for us to be able to engage in infrastructure and construction - that is, my answer to the senator's final question on what other priorities, I said: Our biggest project is to reduce the interest fund and thereby reduce the expenses of the state's budget to pay interest and to use the funds to invest in the interiors we have to do. [[Up front.]] I agree with the senator that delaying roads, maintenance of airports, and whatever we call it, is short - lived. But selling financial companies, other companies, and members of which the State has to cut money off for these investments, but with them preoccupied that it is possible or possible because of other circumstances in the economy that do not lead to expansion or other difficulties in other areas, it is simply my answer to the question about the priorities.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u116	Mr. President. I'd like to ask you what. A senator at the expense of balanceing the distribution of electrical energy and subsidies of house warming. Hv. A senator knows that he has taken some steps in this direction but is still missing. It is reported that 215 million a year are missing from house - to - house subsidies and with the value of the equation 65 million are missing. See what? A senator does not suggest that this project can be completed? There's been a lot of talk, but there's never been a full step. So is communication. It is now spoken as if it is safe to call a region outside the market, an area of about 6 billion. This addition now, 200 million, this will be all 500 million, will be permanent, or will it be a monotonous decision, and may take this ten to 1515 years from now on?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u117	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir of this inquiry. First of all, regarding the house warm, we have reached an enormous milestone in the material, such as the ocean. A senator correctly traced. We did so first, and last of all, by balanceing the expense between urban and rural areas, we have reached quite a large number of targets we have already achieved. A much larger issue is the space of house - to - house heating costs, when we step further into that assignment. It is a big decision to decide whether or not we're going to pay off certain expensive heat plants, etc. I'm not gonna waste my time discussing it any more than I'm gonna try to answer the second question. No, it won't take 103/415 years, even though there are 500 million to improvement in communication, simply because of that, and I pointed out in my speech that there are some means of financing in the proposal made to the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of the Interior, which is also the case. the contribution of the market enterprises to the future fibre optics and to the users of which will be linked. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u118	Mr. President. Something else that has to do with settlements. This bill pulls back 50 billion. K. contributes to the project Frustration based. Hv. A senator spoke of this assignment in general, yet he can see that these funds are not still in the home to work on, of course, the urgent task. Many rural communities applied for this assignment, such as why. A senator knows, yet these 50 million, which are now not large in the big context, are pulled out. Well, maybe. A senator explains why that support is not continued? Regarding transportation, the financial bill on this scale cries out that there is virtually nothing new, maintenance, and business. It's just shameful. Hv. In the context of the state's having such a pay raise of 33 billion, a senator explains how little transportation is being planned. Is it acceptable that people always find a shelf to sit on so as to excuse the lack of transportation when the tourist sector returns to the cost of more than 300 billion, 340 billion, perhaps, that there is no table for transport? What is the explanation? A senator assumes that not even a road program will be clear, and may it be like last time that money will be dropped and an army and there will be no transport plan? Is that not an unacceptable practice? Wants to play. A senator doesn't agree with me about the need to make things right?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u119	Mr. President. Me and what. A senator will agree very often. But first to try to answer her good questions, I say about 50 million. K. We received the information that the funds offered had not been spent, so there was no more to be asked for. We can then have all our opinions on this. I was trying to trace it earlier, and I know why. paritaprevir With all the employment committees, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir worked on it that in our conclusion on the urban affairs that the Committee prepared, we spoke a lot about looking for ways to support us building up the regions of the country that do not enjoy the recovery of the fishing system. We're opening one window in that direction, for example. To see the government property collection in its library, whether we can find a way and how we will use it to further the settlement, etc. Is it acceptable to use raises as an excuse for transport inactivity? I'm going to say again and again: Of course we have to keep up with the bargains, and we don't use the money often. [[The president calls.]] We only use them once, and that's the main problem we're dealing with. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u120	A respectable president. We're here to discuss a budget bill for 2016. A financial committee has had the bill for a considerable period of time, and since it has been said that the case was delayed and a work programme disturbed by about ten days, I would like to say at the outset that the person on this point is working now, and in fact last year's work was successful, but not during the past year, but it's taking the main part of a change in the 2nd. ... abundant. Even though the conference program is moving a little bit, I think it is extremely important for the Senate that we will be able to complete most of the modifications made for the 2nd district. budget after transfer with rural and other relevant groups. As noted in the case of many members of the Parliament, there are quite a number of adjustments made in the budget. What I want to review in particular is community-based languages and how many of the adjustments we are working here are directed to promote and strengthen the country in one way or another. Before going through some suggestions, I would like to take the matter only on local and financial matters. We've seen it for far too long that it's building up in the scattered areas or in certain areas. There are areas in many parts of the country that do not cope with this problem, but Western, Northern Land of Westerns, parts of the northeast corner, and parts of the southeast corner have been coping with a long - term decline in population size and urban problems. The economic breakdown warned that when public management began, it would be a serious risk of harming the country, which in no way enjoyed this better economy, in 2005, 2006, and 2007. It was then suggested that specific settlements were made on a budget bill to prevent the making of economic demands for the individual Ministry and individual agencies from self-involved, and nothing unusual about it, cutting off and managing first and last time at the work centres and operating outside the headquarters of the relevant institutions. Sadly, though, the result was that public work was greatly reduced in many territories and public service was also reduced in a large number of territories. Therefore, it is very enjoyable, although we are not discussing the matter here, that in the process of the public financial bill, it is about how we work a budget bill is made up of special regulations for each year's budget to go to a special regional sector and that the local minister should adopt the guidelines for this assessment. Such building process occurs before the bill is submitted to the General Assembly. Of course, there is no material or some kind of operation on the land and the scattered areas, but it is a means of protection. When individual organisations are being divided and implemented, money laws are automatically aware of that, ministers and individual organizations, that the bill will pass through such settlements. That will in the long term, I believe, have a positive effect on the country. The build-up on the budget bill will be available at 1st. This shows what it is about the country and its scattered areas, which are not properly prepared for use in the bill. Then a financial committee can apply this information to their work to improve the budgeting process between 1 and 2. and 2nd and 3rd. I think it is extremely important in the long run to receive this, especially in the light of history, as we see that in many of these areas the settlement has continued to decline. A respectable president. Now, I want to come up with some of the basic changes made to the bill and face the country. I'd like to start with a discussion that I think is one of the most important issues in the community today, and it's an opportunity for communication and the project proposed by this government to engage in a photoengineering of the entire country. I think this is one of the points young people look to and place in the top row today when they think about where they want to live, i.e. how the network connection is in place. The present government set out a campaign designed to map how possible it could be as the most practical and wise way to bring the whole country into light. That work was initiated out by an internal minister, the minister of communications, and in the lead of that work, two members of the administrative team who, in fact, are both members of the budget, Páll Pálsson. A senator of the forward party, and a what. paritaprevir Haraldur, the son of Benediktsson, who has spoken here today and has been involved in this matter in his excellent speech. During the next year, some 500 million will be used to carry on the project to bring the country's light - headed flow. That contribution is added to the 300 million people on the project last year. It is so that last year a financial committee has taken some lead in this case with its financiers, which were used for further preparation for the project and to complete phone calls on the areas to which a telephone call was to be called when it came to a photoengineering industry. A financial committee took the lead in this case between 1 and 2rd. Last year, 300 million people were assigned to the project. This, in turn, will reimburse the budget, take over a certain lead in the case, and suggest that 500 million will be granted as a whole, thus increasing some 200 million from what the bill expects. I think it's very important that this case succeeds. If we look at each member's comments across the country and its emphasis on the country, how satisfying it is to see that it does not say that it should ensure a good Internet connection, it is said that speed will be the work started by the current government. Of course, there is a tremendous change in direction from what was happening because there was great hope in many areas as to the need for such short - distance improvement. The emphasis now is: Can't you speed up the project? Can't you do this faster than you shut up? Of course, that is a positive incentive, and that is what a financial committee is doing, suggesting that the work be accelerated, highlighting the political importance of the matter when it comes to financing. Another important issue is that of a national airport. We remember that last year the General Assembly Board of Shepherds suggested that 500 million be provided for the maintenance and development of international airports. We are familiar with the discussions about these matters over the years. Keflavík and Leifs Station have to be invested enormously because of the increased number of tourists, and of course they are well. The international airports, however, remain wide around the country, not receiving enough funding for maintenance and infrastructure. There is no one political party to blame, but throughout history, it has been said that there has been a solution to finding ways to transfer funds from the international flight, resulting in huge profits, both in the flight and in the crew of the Cheflavík, to the international flight. Last year, a financial committee proposed a return from Istavia, thus raising a lucrative budget in the budget and assuming that money would be used to operate on national airports. As a result, much media coverage on the subject was followed, and Istavia was seriously affected. The Ministry of Economics then decided not to follow this interest requirement and withdraw it and correct it now at the end of the year because of the need for building up also in Chefavík. In fact, the construction money remained, and it was truly used. Part of it is already being done. I'm talking about a field project at Aarnesfjords that are already under way and part of them will be completed at the start of the next year, that's what has started, and this gave a budget report at meetings that were held at the development of the budget bill. This year, a financial committee continues to suggest that 400 million will be provided for further building on national airports. In view of the amount of investment to be made in Cheflavík and, in view of the fact that last year's Ministry of finance decided not to follow the interest requirements in Istavia, the amount of money paid is not required on the part of a legal committee that will be paid to Istavia. Nevertheless, the Commission proposes a 400 - million attack on the international airports far and wide across the country. The budget has suggested that over two years there will be a series of internal flights at 900 million. When you see the focus of your rural society and hear concern about airports in many parts of the country - and when you see them not only at the airports that are planned but also the sound of flights that are used for ambulances and ambulances - and see how much money you need in addition to the flying cools, you have the impression that these 400 million are like a drop in the sea. Yet, it is taking important positive steps to further the implementation and maintenance of national airports. Of course, that is so, as it were, that much more can be done if necessary. I don't think I'm breaking any confidentiality when I say what I said at a budget meeting; people involved in this matter, like the Vega Act, the Ministry of State, Istavia, and the Ministry of State, must come together and find a way to secure the structure of national airports in the same way that is being done to ensure building at Leifs Station. The free service at Leifs Station provides enormous amounts of income to Isvia, which is a table for a table, that is financial space to attack the development of national airports. Much of the current legal committee has always put tremendous emphasis on this. Another matter proposed by a financial committee to be funded is port. There's a suggestion about 400 million. K. contributes to the Redemption Fund for reimbursement of docks and depth in terrestrial seas across the country. In fact, it is the same with this case as with the airports that there are important infrastructures that in recent years have received far too little money for maintenance. These 400 million are an enormous start, and they are positive as far as it goes. However, as is the case, funding for these structures is needed, and the budgetary committees are taking a very important step in that direction, with this emphasis and the funding laid down for building ports that are being built up in many countries. With these three major points I have mentioned, we are taking an important step in the infrastructure of the country. In increasing numbers, we need to provide additional funding for international infrastructure. You see, a respected president, it is in the best interests of the entire nation that we will be able to build a strong country around the country. It is the benefit of the entire nation when a fishing vessel comes to the pier on the West, or Eastern, and land there are fishing and creating currency value, as if it were the benefit of the entire nation to keep Húsavík Airport open or to build up the airport at Aarnesfjord. We want to keep the whole country built, and that is basic when it comes to the use of natural resources far and wide across the country, whether in the form of a marine export, agriculture, industry, or otherwise, as well as when it comes to the tourism and how we are distributing the tourists all around the country. The basis for it to be possible is that it has infrastructure to receive the tourists and that it has people who can serve and work in this business that is becoming one of the nation's largest sectors, if not the largest. That is why it is so that, in the widest sense, we all speak, not just the language of the people living in the country. It is the national case because it is nationally practical for the people of the capital that there is a force built on the land and vice versa. A respectable president. This is what a majority of the budgetary committees have made with the proposed changes that have looked enormously high, to promote the provisional order as far as possible. Senators in the smaller section have talked a little bit about being given an abnormally large amount of money to projects in the northern part of the West. As I said at the beginning of my talk, there are four areas in the country that have an abnormally great decrease in population. It's the northland West, i.e. The Western and East Hunsavours and Taxlands, the Westerns, and so we have Hólmavík, the Coast, the Smokeland and the Valley, and a part of the North Coast and part of the east of the South. Many rural areas in northern Western countries have been introduced to a financial committee because a certain group was appointed to review parish territory in the part of the country. Many rural areas in this area have given tremendous weight to the fact that this is going to work out. This has been shown in their case when they have arranged for a financial committee to introduce it in this way and suggest that this could be an example for other areas of similar development, i.e. that local inhabitants are being given the opportunity to sit down, evaluate their parishes, and bring up potential projects. Of course, we should look forward to setting a good example for the territory I mentioned earlier. It is only positive when building settlements in scattered settlements, and it is positive when offering proposals and working in setting funding for countries that have struggled with and promoted great numbers of people, just as it is positive when working on industrial development in Húsavík or promoting regions in southern countries that have had problems and even problems. is suggested here in Thomson Sgt. This is positive, and we need to look to this on a far greater scale. Of course, there are other matters proposed by a financial committee to provide additional funds, including natural clinics, which have had economic problems since the crash, university in the country, and so on. A respectable president. If we put the change proposals of the greater part aside and cross the big picture then we're at the point of walking this bill afterwards, and no reason to think otherwise, this will still be one of the budgets of the current government that will be approved, given that the state's funds are not thrown down. It is truly positive that government funds are thrown on the right side of zero, and I believe that we will see that, whether it is before the end of this discussion or next year, even more improvements in the terms of government, when the swelling of the banks begins to come to us in financial terms. It's going to be very positive, but I'm going to wait for a discussion on the subject to be presented in spite of the fact that many senators have taken it up here, and I'm going to answer one of them. But it is so clear that the person listed here stressed to promote the settlement of the budget, to increase funding for the scattered settlements. I think it's done, I think we've done well, but, of course, you can say better if it works, and it's an eternity of work. But the budget bill we're discussing now is a step in the right direction when it comes to settlements, and we see positive signs of the air and positive steps, and I hope that they can cause us to develop the infrastructure and that this is part of the process as well as a change in the public financial bill, to reverse the built - ups that have been in many countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u121	A respectable president. Thank you. A candidate for a talk that was very good, considering how little time he had to prepare. I have to say, I'm disappointed in the way these museums have returned to the budget board. I was very much in favour of the changes taken during last term moving the museums to the Ministry so that there were a series of procedures, so everyone would be able to apply in funds or museums, it would all be under government law. It was up to the last stipulation to return a number of teams to partners and others. Now I've taken an even bigger step that I feel is a big disappointment. I must ask: Do we not trust the advisers and advisers to oversee these museums, since it is a great temptation for members of the council to have this access to tax? This does not increase confidence in the Council, I feel, after we have reassigned ourselves to this position that we were actually getting out of. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u122	A respectable president. You're right next door. During the last term, a senator was attempting to bring the museum members out of a budget board, out of the council's professional committees, to the council. In fact, it was back in its last term to provide a small amount of community support for such organizations in the third sector. A respectable president. There are two things I would like to highlight in this. First of all, there is good reason to ask ourselves, " What shape have we made of this, i.e. to put it back in the Ministry, whether it was the wise thing to do, whether we are by making sure that many of these little, positive projects are being given sufficient control over the country. The guy here said in his last term: It's okay to move this into the Ministry, but then we have to have the assurance that this small museums and museums won't make any more cuts around the country... [[The president calls.]] I've got to get this over with in my next answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u123	A respectable president. I would have wanted us to have just taken that discussion, if it had been necessary to strengthen the process that is being done more effectively in the council. It's not as if the whole third sector has been set up by now. I call attention to the fact that while they're putting 15 million in paying up the labor halls of one museum, the poethouses at Akureyri will not get a cent, either from the Ministry or from a financial committee. There will never be equal in this contrast. I would have liked to have at least received this discussion, considered pros and cons, the way this was going in place of something that has somehow been reassigned by all or a lot of museum teams, and there are some six people who have to say how the funds are going down. I don't like it. I think we need to discuss this further, because I don't think it's okay with this kind of work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u124	A respectable president. No matter what adjustments the proposals we make here in this council hall, which come from the greater part, there are many, as noted in the debate. A senator, then, is the more part of the legal committee that suggests it. Whether it's large or small, it doesn't matter. A respectable president. I think it is time to take up a discussion on the third sector in general and whether there is no reason for the numerous partners, museums, museums, and small groups that are growing far and wide around the country - how we can best support them. I think that the operation under the last term, when it came to this, simply caused many of these powerful communities to weaken and weaken. A senator named one of them here, in Akureyri. I think this has resulted in weakening these little people, who are the pillar of this tourism and in spreading tourists across the country. I've felt it, at least at the head of the budget board, that this is a project that we should take a fresh look at in the new year, whether it is wise to put this into a new and better course than the one it has been given during the last term. To that end, I agree with what. paritaprevir Brynhildur Pétursdóttir's granddaughter's bramble.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u125	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I noticed that it had a high priority on community and investment in the region. But I couldn't resist thinking about what to do. A senator would be trying to convince you. In fact, I come to the conclusion that he may need to convince himself more about the emphasis. I want less of it. In fact, during the last term, a senator was attacked on a very broad scale by local authorities and members of the country and was inspired by a so - called application plan. It entered an investment programme adopted at the council, and was approved at the council, which included setting up 1.2 billion per year for the construction of the country's habitats for three years, including 2.5 billion in the same years of the same years in the development of transport efforts in the region and investing in the infrastructure and development of tourist facilities in the country. The first thing the government did was blow this thing off and set out for 15 million. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask you what. A senator. In view of his emphasis and interest in geographic matters, did he fight within the governments to see that an investment plan that included such a dramatic structure in the country would be maintained? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u126	The president asks why. Senators, watch out for deadlines. One minute goes by quickly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u127	A respectable president. One minute is way too fast to pass. In general, I'd like to say that I wasn't trying to convince anyone, that I was reviewing proposals proposed for the change in the part, and that I'm facing the infrastructure of the country, turning towards transportation, ports, airports, telecommunications. Principles of national infrastructure. A respectable president. When it comes to the application program of the first government submitted at the end of the season, it was not entirely financial after all. And what's more, what I've been doing in my speech is all the things that rural society has been putting on a budget has been putting tremendous emphasis on the infrastructure, as I said before; harbors, airports, transportation, telecommunications. That's what the major part is to respond and be put out, I want to say, hundreds of millions per one of these classes. That, of course, is tremendously positive. That's what I tried to trace in my case. I wasn't trying to convince anyone what to do. A senator. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u128	With the voters?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u129	A respectable president. You don't have to convince me about these matters because it's very important to invest in infrastructure, invest in roads, invest in transportation, invest in telecommunications, invest in the construction of tourist facilities. It may have been attacked in this discussion, there were defined goals, this was no government application program, it was the country's rural strategy for building up, and where equality was being maintained, not just money poured into some one geographic area, but was taken into the whole country. At the council, it was accepted to go to that structure. Wasn't she financial? Yes, it was financed, among other things, by some of the money available on the land. The plan went out of the way of returning them money until building projects. And then, in part, this investment plan was funded, just part of the money that comes from financial institutions, and it's made a lot of money. It is therefore a little strange to have such a keen interest in rural development and infrastructure in the country, but not to back up one of the most ambitious plans for building a country that has been blown up. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u130	A respectable president. Looks like it's him. A senator is rather stuck in the frame than in the material because he certainly is supporting the country in the budget. In ports 400 million are being proposed. There are 400 million in airports and 400 million in all of the country's fiber - optics, a project that began in the present government. This adds to the fact that cold areas and the distribution of electricity have been fully leveled for house - to - house heating costs. I'd like to say that these two items, the whole last term and the first part of this terms, were a red thread in every striped rural society, these two major items. The government is now, the head of the Superintendent Party and the Independence Party, doing a great thing in these matters and changing them to the point that we're initiating the opticization of the whole country, and we've already leveled fully the cost of house warming in cold areas. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. Hv. Of course, a senator must study the emphasis of these communities before coming up here and criticizing the person standing here for a lawsuit. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u131	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The speaker, who gave the talk primarily to discuss the local Colporteur, who, of course, would do well to be served. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, because he has a seat at rest. A legal committee, if I use it correctly, into the outworking of the greater section on page 24. 22nd On the one hand, you are suggested to cover 200. K. Documents will be transferred to Thorberg's mansion due to the renewal of the contract and, directly below, a proposal is made about 59 million. K. a temporary contribution to a variety of funding that will be further extended by the Ministry. I think it's a little high. Well, maybe. The senator informed me of what to do with this? Is it just a matter of 59 million for the Minister to check?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u132	A respectable president. I think the first motion as a dog. A senator came on to be some sort of correction. It comes from a government, and it's a correction which is not a large sum of money, i.e. Two hundred thousand. The second team involved in providing additional funds for the Ministry of Education. A respectable president. Hv. In fact, a senator's pity is because she wasn't here during her last term. But before you know what you're talking about. A senator was specifically criticized for providing funds for individual projects and defined in precise terms by the financial bill. However, the opposite is being done. They're giving funding to the Ministry, which is said to be a temporary contribution to a number of sponsors, which the Ministry further expands. This is just what was done during the last terms when increased funds were provided for the schemes that were to be further expanded. [[The president calls.]] It's just being added to the pots the Ministry of Education that were actually the biggest pots of their time. The largest museum pots in their time, which went to the counciling, were just the pots for the Ministry of Education. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] A financial committee does not have much control over how money is spent.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u133	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. You're absolutely right, I wasn't here during my last term. It's gonna sting a little bit in the eyes. I think this amount of money is completely unexplored. In terms of what has been said mostly about, downkilled sums, if any. The senator is referring to the sum of money going to the northwest, so I have not heard criticism of that per se, but rather that there is a lack of transparency. I also feel like there's a lack of transparency here. What I have heard about the northwest area and agree with it is just what happened in the exchange of words here, that the whole country would need to be possessed in that regard. This is not because members of Congress are overwhelmed by the fact that money goes to the northwest, but when it comes to the whole country, there is no equal. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's the criticism I've heard about it and the lack of transparency there. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u134	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. I think that when men moved this body into the Ministry, it made it a significant reduction in transparency. I think there's a good reason, and I've put it in my speech, so that we take the discussion here in what makes it the most wise way to meet small museums and put them all around the country. Based on what you hear and the emphasis of your rural society and the rest of your life. has greatly reduced the support of the government in many of the scattered settlements since this moved to the Ministry. Unfortunately, it is. Regarding the whole country, I'd like to reiterate what I said in my speech earlier, and I've seen the heads of rural society in the western western part of the West, West Huna County, Eastern County, and Skavegurd, that this could be an example for other areas of reduced population size. But this is not to say that the country's entire population, as Þóroddur noted, was experiencing the same reduced population. [[The president calls.]] There are mainly areas in the country that have severely reduced numbers of people. [[The president calls.]] This is one of them. It could be an example for other areas. [[The president calls.]] Then it's just a good thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u135	Mr. President. Hv. A senator spoke extensively about the country, but I don't think it is quite reflected in this financial bill. I'm afraid he has a lot of ideas about building up, but I'm afraid it's not part of the budget bill. He also found that the cost of warm - ups in cold areas was completely leveled. Where can I find it in my budget bill? Since I looked it up, a few hundred million people have to match the distribution of electricity and to balance house - to - house expenses. I think it's a responsibility to make such a statement when this project is not completed, although a step has been taken. It's not enough to agree to the law, it's not enough to finance things. There is no such thing. It's clearly in the bill. Why was 50 million withdrawn from the disaster project built? Is there not enough work to do where money can be spent? Why are they being pulled out rather than using them for the challenges they face?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u136	A respectable president. At the time of the current government, one of the priorities was that full - scale house - to - house heating costs in cold areas and the distribution of electricity would be used. There have been two of its layers with ideas signed for the entire last term, which aim to match spontaneously on the warming of cold areas. These bills have been approved at the council, and they work perfectly on them. The bills involved achieving the full range of house - to - house expenses. Coming up here and arguing that this is a hollow compromise or that it doesn't hold any conclusions. [[Up front.]] The rest of it. A senator turned his attention to Frustrated and scattered settlements and 50 million. K. The capital that was assigned to that project. A respectable president. It is being given funding for infrastructure in many of these fracture-based structures. I know how to make one of the settlements of the Valley. [[The president calls.]] These include funding for a particular task that the local community laid heavily on the pursuit of funds and actually on two projects. Thus, especially attention is being made to what rural communities themselves stressed when they presented themselves to a financial committee. [[The president calls.]] Hv. Of course, a senator needs to study what they said when they met a financial committee and in his comments. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u137	Mr. President. I'm sorry to hear that. A senator has not read the budget because this shows that several hundred million people are missing the full payment of house - to - house expenses. But okay. Then I'd like to ask who. A senator into high school in the country. There is much community, but the number of students has been reduced, and the 25 - year rule is that students over 25 years of age cannot start book studies, as well as the reduction in student values. This has meant that from 2014/2015, students in high school have decreased by 742 and 400, respectively. This scruples students in the region that are driven from studies, people who are going back to study, and thus have been able to do so in their hometowns. Is it upbuilding to the region as we walk along. A senator is signing up on this budget bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u138	A respectable president. I have to say again that I'm sharp. A senator to read the laws that have approved the equation of house - to - house heating costs and the distribution of electricity. The present government is making sure that these issues will go on a normal course and not have to be subject to quirks of politics every year. You know, about high school. It is a firm pot that a budget is putting into the budget bill and facing higher schools in the scattered settlements and is making changes in the development of more parts. It is so that the current proportion of the budgetary committee places much emphasis on national education. To make up the budget that is being given at the University of the land four; University of Akureyri, University of Hólar, University of Bifrost, and Landing University of Iceland. But to come here and talk about the lack of understanding of more of the legal committees of intensive education in the country. [[The president calls.]] It is so that by means of this financial bill, it is being given a lot of money into the infrastructure of the country, to the university, to the optics, to the transportation, to ports, to the airports, and to other things. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm happy and I'm happy. A senator should be. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u139	A respectable president. There are many things that go through your mind as you examine the budget that has come to the 2nd. and the changes made to them. It's not like you're thinking about, too, in the context of the budget we were discussing here a few days ago and they took care of us. If I should just gather in a few words the ratings that come to mind when I look at these funds are terms such as indiscretions, inconsistencies, the breakdown of important social activities because of the lack of understanding of Icelandic health care problems, the lack of understanding of the role of the education system, the permissiveness of those most fortunate in our society, the indifference of those less fortunate. This is my most important failures of the budget bill. The changes made between discussions really do not change there. That pieces don't change the overall picture. These budgets assume that the next year's expenses will be 681 billion. and income is expected to be 693.3 billion and the rest of the state's budget will be about 15 billion. It is obvious that in recent years, there has been an increase in the scope of the state culture with the prosperity of the land since the disaster years following the collapse; and that is well. However, this increased scope for the state population is not well used in next year's budget. Here, however, would have been an ideal opportunity to compensate for the harsh and inevitable cuts that would take place after the governmental forces now ruling the country brought about a fall over the nation in 2008. Now it is good to live well in the groups and institutions of the community that grew out of collapse: the family of children, microgrows, and the elderly, low - income, and middle - income groups, not to mention important community institutions that are now riding on the feet of the bread. There are no financial contributions here to meet the rent - rent housing problems of young people in a poverty trap. This is shocking in view of the Habitat's figures showing that the children of tenants first and worst of all are affected by their parents'difficult economic situation. A barn has pointed out that there is a lack now, and if it remains, on the apartments for large groups that have not already reached their own market, many young people will be permanently excluded from the market or a sickly group or burned off the crash, as is said in the opinion of the United Nations at the end of this year. This group will not be active in a special market at that price and with the credit rates and credit requirements made. A camper points out that lack of market oers and long-term rent has a negative impact on urban development in the country around the country, where rural property is mostly calculated by large local homes or serials. For the group who fail to provide support or who have less payment or the ability to earn, you see that there is no need for an Icelandic housing market to provide housing. In other words, it is missing between steps and contributions that society's automatons or partners can create. In order for this to happen, local communities have to take various steps, but the General Assembly also needs to do its part, especially by providing an effective way for housing support for low income groups, which, however, are to activate the economics that may be available without a profit requirement. There are ways of doing this, but it cannot be seen, of the conditions of housing that the Minister of Social Affairs has now provided late and ultimately, that the need is answered, at least not to be answered. It is estimated that now some 2,500,500,000 apartments per year are needed into the market to meet needs and that there is a need to build at least 1,200,500,000 apartments on a land - controlled budget. Consider, then, the welfare issues and the Hospital, our national hospital. He does not receive the funds he desperately needs in order to shorten the waiting list created during recent strikes. He does not get enough money to live up to or to maintain new agreements. He cannot be evaluated in agreement with the State to increase the pressures of population growth, including the growing numbers of older people, the increase in the number of tourists, and the pressures on the health system. This is not going to include him in his contracts. But it is of interest, in view of this, that these factors are taken into account in agreement with experts and other personal health care professionals. It calculates into the faceliness that the Land Hospital is denied to be evaluated, telling its own history of attitude and attitude. This is particularly true of the government's mental attitude toward health care, which looks like the government's groups moving toward private matters, secret and clear, and mostly secret. The plans for the privateisation of the health care clinic without the introduction of the Generalist, without official formal policy in public areas - there is serious news and the underlying impulse of the present government to obtain and place public health care; to introduce market motivation to the health care clinic where the U.S.A. would play a key role. paritaprevir For example, when Jónasson's grandfather earlier today noted that the chief spokesman for the future development of health care, at least in today's media, was the director of the Contestant Board. It's all given up now. As a result, officials in this and other business have been so dwindling that the public service is steadily breaking down, causing more and more aspects of health care to go into private business. Slowly, people are being pushed into a private - conditioned health system by financing the public system so that they do not neglect what needs to be done. The list of waitings is an example of this. People wait for replacement surgery to cool off, and the average waiting period is 14 months, but, in rare cases, up to three years. Eyestone surgery - an example that is close to being taken, an example that I only heard about recently and is a real example: You need to renew your driver's license, but in order to pass the test, you first need to replace your lens. He needs a driver's license right away, but there's a lot of months before his surgery. He needs his driver's license now. He can't wait. He's going to a private room, he gets this done right away, and he's paying thousands of dollars for it. Earlier today, another example was given when the land hospital was about a year's threat to the x - rays that were then taken to a private site where they were otherwise valuable to patients. The money paid for the patients, as they say, but the money follows the patients only if they pay tens of thousands for research and, in some cases, hundreds of thousands when they gather many medical and medical expenses. Yet, a recent assessment of the operation of the Land Hospital shows that it is inexpensive compared to a similar hospital in neighboring countries, and despite poor financial conditions, it is being successful. Health expenditures in Iceland are now intermediate OECD countries, but in 2003 Iceland was the leading population. One form of this well - being is the patient person I've only been discussing in this field. Multiple limitations of patients who may receive urgent medical treatment. First few come, as defined by the conditions that existed here at the beginning of the year, when a commission was made to deny, including cancer patients and people dealing with blindness, about the necessary medication. A case that was later solved with some side arrangements, yet it also sheds light on how our health - care systems are affected. What kind of health system is it that stops, or that has at least built - in the possibility of giving the medicine to those who are already due for medication, or rather than that of patients, wetting? How does a patient, perhaps a young cancer patient, feel that he or she does not receive the necessary medication because he has been late? This year, for example, after April 15, when some necessary anticancer, ophthalmic medicinal products for the treatment of cancer and eye disorders were discovered and raised - the dinner was completed according to the Health Department's orders. This is a sad reality in Iceland after this process has been adopted, binding payment warrants from the prescribing committee for certain medications to a particular number of patients. Prior to considering this setting, it was based on the fact that a patient with confirmed medical conditions would receive the medicinal product that he needed, regardless of the number of other patients taking it. The result of the change, however, is that the day after the new arrival of a new patient is not being refilled with the best available medicine for their illness. So today, doctors are following the rules set by the Department of Health, which you should expect them to follow. In other words, the message I am making here as a topic is that funding is a means of saving a life rather than a need for survival. With the same reasoning, physicians should stop fracture when a certain number of patients have been reached. Of course, none of us even think about doing so. However, it is different with medicines that are needed for serious health problems such as cancer and eye blindness. The law on health care stipulates the right of people to enjoy the most perfect health care that each day can provide for the protection of mental, physical, and social health. This is the government's right, which, in fact, is the end of our welfare system and thinking that were responsible for the structure of the health system we live in today's system. It is bad when a cut to public institutions and non-routine policies, I mean, the government budget for the welfare system is beginning to cause society to fail to respect its own baselines, its own legislation and its constitutions to its weak cohesion. Of course, it is unacceptable that doctors are made to deny patients who are exposed to dangerous diseases about the medications in their best interests because too many have been given the medicine ahead of them. This is what happens to our health system. Among family doctors, there is very little recent treatment, and health care is very low. It's hard to get a family doctor and a small date in the event category at this time. The personalisation plans that I discussed earlier are prepared below the surface, behind the scenes, without policy or the presence of the Generalist Council. Of course, it is a great lack of understanding of the problems of Icelandic health care to think that it will be solved by personal employment, which also conflicts with social emphasis or the values so far held in high esteem and accepted in our society. It is a costly way that will not pay for it, neither money nor social. Official agencies that have maintained good service during difficult times are not getting their damage done after a collapse. Now most of them have reached their limit of endurance. It involves the breakdown that I mentioned earlier in our social institutions and the very social welfare system, which is a social resource, but entirely neglected, as at the right administration of the independent and forwarding group, which is now under control. We have the examples all around us. The state radio status is known to everyone. The important agency has been left behind in the carriers of the market by means of the heavy Penitentiary that the state left in the agency before it left in anger as an official partner, ohf. I have previously mentioned land hospital, which is cheap, compared to a similar hospital in the neighboring countries. Iceland's university is one of the most expensive universities in the Western world, based on activity and size, and it still achieves fine results on global quality levels and far better than any more expensive university. The government's insurance agency is run for only about one third or one quarter of the cost to the sisters'institutions in the Northern countries. And that's how it goes beyond that in the public sector. Iceland does not have a large amount of public expenses per capita. In fact, quite a bit lower than the northern cousins. So it is difficult to witness when this financial bill, like the last one, is read. These institutions are not supported, and they should not benefit from the benefits of public government. The education system is in trouble, shutting down the access of adults to high school, a process that shuts people down, especially women in the country, but also shuts down the group without formal education in a labour market. These are groups who should rightly have been strengthening and supporting to improve employment opportunities through increased education. Especially now that professional life is taking over, and these people need an opportunity. Instead, the government has arranged for so much that high school does not receive adults. We can see this by saying that the general reduction in high school last year is 6%, but book school is 25 years and older she is 38%. In high school students 25 years of age and older, the number of students has decreased by 742 persons between years of age, 447 in book studies, and by 295 in art and work studies. That is a serious problem when 742 people are released from high school. Mr. President. We have a health system that is in very big trouble. And we have an education system in severe trials. We are also faced with a serious expansive escape without any credible parish policy visible to stop that fugitive. And what about the infrastructure, such as the construction of tourism or the road system? Funding is the government's payment on that problem. Despite the third year of this current ideal period, no transport plan has yet been identified. Yet, transport is fundamental to the status of the national sector and the potential for retrieving its weapons from urbanization and ongoing refugees over the last few decades, especially in the northwestern district and in the West. Yet, the country's roads are low, and the movement of tourists in certain places is so great that natural damage has already taken place in some places. Despite this situation, however, tourism as well as its development is spared from participating in social structure, running for others. The cost of fishing is reduced to billions. Yet, the structure has never been better. With 70 constituted 80,80 billion bucks. The capitalization and the other tens of billions of dollars it pays itself for its own profit. But does the nation receive a fair profit from the fishing resource? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. This financial bill is prepared well for all who are more fortunately worthy of themselves in Icelandic society, the great industry, and the rich. The changes in the tax system were made for them. For example, deconstruction of the wealth tax. People with 700 points. K. 12 of you are receiving a month. K. in increasing monthly arrangements for the 300-point person. K. receives only two thousand dollars in additional provisions. Those with even less monthly pay get nothing. The health benefits of social security are not accompanied by an increase in minimum wage. The subjects of the elderly are very uncertain; for example, there is no plan for nursing homes, and the situation of poor elderly citizens is worst. In order to bite the head off the shame, the administrative part rejects, for elderly and poorer men receive a quirk correction from the same time as do earners in the country in general, including members of the General Assembly itself. However, for the last election, no great declarations, especially those of independence, were needed. As far as I can remember, a personal letter was sent to every senior citizen in the country, signed by the current highest. Secretary of finance, chairman of the Independence Party, Bjarni Benediktsson's son, who was promised gold and green forests only if they chose the Independence Party. It has been a real challenge for those who took the letter credible to observe the roll call that was here on the change proposal of the greater part to bring correction to the elderly and micro-pierced people from the same time as others and to listen to members of the management team, one by one, rejecting the fact that the elderly and the desperate at 170 you. K. monthly allowances will receive corrective measures from the same time as others. Now that the state's population is looking for the time of trouble, now that there is a long - awaited budget and we have both used income resources and resources, society would have started to correct and correct the worst of the worst. But it's not the government of Independence and Proclamation. It sets priorities for the rich and the few. It uses the rest to increase discrimination and inseparate. She cancels the resource tax to care more for the rich people. It lowers the prize of fishing out of consideration of the no - to - dodging power that has never been better and is so readily available that it pays itself 13 billion for a pure profit of 70,480 billion capitalism, as already mentioned. However, elderly and poorer ones may go to the back of the row. They should not be corrected from the same time as the others. Of course, that procedure reminds us of a known fiction, Animal Farm, in which the songs of the pigs that had taken over the farm town, were that everyone on earth would be equal, just some equal. Inevitably, this quote came to mind when a man observed the call of tragedy here yesterday or the day before, when all the senators, leg soldiers, even most of the councilmen, denied it - said aloud with his own voice no - that the elderly and the desperate will be restored to their dressers, the correction that the same members of Congress are receiving back. Mr. President, there's a lot to take. The causes of the disabled are being driven, and the communities believe that they lack more than a billion in that category. The more part of the budget bill, the more it can change, the more it's 600 billion dollars. decrease in children's improvement. These were the families of children who took up the supplies because of the increased levels of the tax in their time. The group at the cost of housing, whether in a rented market or in a real estate market, is in debt to a group. On top of another, the State takes 200 billion back in interest of interest, and under its head, it turns over the income barriers. No counter measures there. There are cold greetings to young people and family members. A smaller section of the legal committee has shown in its committee that I now encourage as many people as possible to read, both members of the Parliament and listeners in the city, that there is still room for better improvement. With interest from banks, increased tax control, and fishing costs, 14 billion more could be created into the budget, making more money for both the welfare and the public of the country. Sadly, though, it is clear where the heart beats in the present - day government. The priority order shows this. It differs from looking at changes in more parts than smaller parts. However, the proposals of the government stand to show that it is possible to place other emphasis on the government and to make more reasonable use of the Kingdom funds. With emphasis on improving the market and the lowest income, on health care, culture and education and investments in the environment, and on society's infrastructure all over the country; it's possible, there's money. There are income stocks. Just so I'll only draw attention to the proposals of the Anti-Country on a budget committee that is, of course, supported by all the government groups. There, most of the money goes on to increase the social security rates at the same rate as the lowest salary in the contract contract contracts that mark 300 of you. K. month. And it suggests that the Landspians get money to care for the necessary activities. That children's families will be brought up on the roof of your birthworm to 500 of you. K. and child improvement increases with increasing impairment criteria. A smaller section of the budget committee would also like to expect to increase to college and money to lift the mass limits in high school and strengthen their business. And also plan for financial contributions to defend Iceland. The proposals of the management board also highlight investment in national infrastructure and application programmes and put on special initiatives in the maintenance and development of road repairs, as the need has become urgent. It also says that to meet Iceland's commitments to climate crisis, more money is expected to be made to investment in the green economy and to climate. In addition, proposals for a number of important matters of justice, increased donations for refugees, for increased support to immigrants, for prisons, for the battle against sexual violence, for mental health problems, and for the volunteer agent of the General Assembly. These suggestions offered by the lesser part are fully funded in the same proposal by the currently under- or lost on the part of the government, such as higher fishing costs, profit from banks, energy tax on big business, and improved tax control. With these proposals of government opposition, the policy is taken against inequities and discrepancies in the direction of increasing prosperity, which is divided in a just way. It is the responsibility of those who are in charge of sharing and equalizing the burdens and living for the common people of the land. It would be better if the government was more aware of that responsibility than it really is. I'm covering my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u140	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank Kjerúlf. Ólína For good and extensive talks, Kjerölphon was the daughter of the Þorvarðardóttir, where she was very careful about how it is not adding enough money to the infrastructure and health system and how the highest. The government has been giving up income that is just so important that it can be supported by the same infrastructure and welfare system. I want to thank you. A member in particular for her review of the pharmaceutical issues and the number of requirements set out there. I agree with what. A senator that this is natural from a cow if you allow it to be used in such terms from here on out. There's one thing I'd like to ask you. The senator may not have spoken so much about it in her speech, but she came in on it. That's what concerns disabled people's affairs. In fact, it is very strange that in the majority view, the matter of disabled persons is discussed in a chapter that bears the headlined legislation. Counts 'em out. A senator needs to consider how money is spent? Does the State need to enter it more effectively and give money to the countryside so that disabled people can sit at the same table regardless of their home? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u141	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the question. It is true that I did not discuss much of the subjects of the disabled in my speech. There is so much to discuss and to give time, but the matter is certainly big. In rural areas, it is estimated that about one billion are missing. Of course, it is best that rural society could perform this service, accept it, but funds must follow a service that is to be provided in close proximity to the environment. It has to be considered well considered, I believe, in close cooperation with the rurals, how funds are best assured into this suit. Perhaps the most tragic aspect of this series of cuts is the fact that we seem to have plenty of money. There's a billion of them. Hence, it is surprising that, with this as much as most of the other things I have criticized in my speech, are not to be seen with more money to ensure the legal basic services of the citizens of this country, whether they are disabled, sick, need education, or any other means of welfare.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u142	V.E.G. President. Legal basic services are very important, and of course it needs to be financed. There is another question I would like to ask. A senator into whom she was a little involved but mentioned, which is what concerns the green economy and the climate fund. It is suggested in part that both are strengthened. Isn't it a bit strange, to say the least, that the same thing as there are a lot of agents from the Council of Climates in Paris that have dropped environmental and resource taxes and that the market income is at risk of being earmarked climates, it's just sliding into state funds. [[The president calls.]] Is this going together?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u143	A respectable president. There's a certain lack of policy, I think, in Iceland, in resource and environment. I've been talking about it for a long time, and the Conspiracy has been on a policy list for a long time, talking about the need for a more consistent policy for all of our resources. We would have to start a resource fund and improve our perspective on how industry, pollution of activity, and the working life that is resource-efficient, subsidies into the community fund, so that we could build up resources or funds to deal with both environmental problems, research and scientific work that are necessary to meet the urgent challenges of the environment and to build up the work exactly with the aim of the green economy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u144	V.E.G. President. Hv. In his talk, a senator covered a wide range of fields. One of the factors mentioned was drugs and medical expenses. Hv. A senator argues that there is some kind of greeting on a drug. This morning we conducted these matters on a welfare committee. Well, maybe. A senator informed us of what happened at that meeting? At that meeting, the chairman of the Committee for Medicinal Products and the chairman of the Committee for Medicinal Products of the Land Hospital was appointed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u145	A respectable president. I'll be happy to do that. In fact, the senator himself was present at the largest part of the meeting, but perhaps not all. There we were contacted by both the U.S. Marshal and the president of the Committee for Drug Administration, the Subcommittee and the Department of Health, in order to review these patient matters, on my part. It stated that although the number limitation of patients in public data on this matter is not limited to mass limits, it is actually a people. On the other hand, health - care professionals and the Ministry are now counting on, up to the will to try to solve the issues raised in order to prevent some serious violations of human rights. This does not change, however, that the instructions given by the prescribing committee include that a certain number of patients should not be treated with medicines for some medical conditions. In other words, it really is with the people of the patient's health - care system, which is, of course, a bug. We must unite in this regard, on the contrary, to eliminate that arrangement.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u146	V.E.G. President. I thought that a meeting of information at the General Committees was going to be successful, and when people said things that were not proved right, they would only revise their expressions and their approach. But that is not the case. Senator. People who work in the system will solve the issues that arise. The Ministry is all about doing so. However, there is an agreement between the Constitution articles that guarantees patients the right to be best health care, as well as the financial resources, because no financial fee can be paid unless it is set in financial terms. This knows why. A senator who prefers to continue his cowardly talk about the patient's experience and says that it is practiced by the Ministry of Health. That is wrong, and although we have had an excellent information meeting here today, he did not produce results. A senator changed his speech. It's remarkable.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u147	A respectable president. Hv. A senator might have been doing better for the entire meeting, so she might have heard the results of the meeting with a pharmaceutical commission and a representative of the Committee of the Drug Administration. [[Up front.]] The conclusion was that although the number limitation of patients in public data was not spoken of, the number limitation for the population was in effect. That's what the meeting said. That's the news I'm bringing here. Of course, it helps the health - care providers to try to solve the problem. But when the rules are that way, huh? A candidate, to avoid paying medication after a certain number of patients are reached, is an unacceptable protocol. [[Up front.]] Of course, Mr. President, we must work at changing the rules so that life - saving services are not subject to financial pressures. [[The president calls.]] We were not going to stop fracture when a certain number of patients were reached, so why should there be other benefits to drug subsidies in acute illness? Of course not! [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u148	Hv. President. Thank you. A senator before the talk, even though it was not so upbuilding. I want to ask you why. A senator as to whether it is time for the Conspiracy to stop denying that it was here in the government, in the highly proposed collapse government. [[Up front.]] I quote here in the home page of Ögmundur, son of Jónasson. That's where he says, by permission of a president: ▪ At a meeting in Copenhagen on March 11 [2008], where Ingle Sólrún gave talks at pepp meeting with Einarsson, the bank manager of KB banks, and others said: 'Nogle pästir, at Bankerne's doublet for landet and at den nuværendens want to be with føre but at allor·khonsk krisk in det lslandke meeting. [[Up front.]] If my point is clear, I'll be right back. [[Up front.]] Yes, there are those who say the banks are too big and we know how to get into a crisis. That fear is totally unfounded. Can the Company then come here and identify themselves free, describe all the responsibility for other classes? The forward party? I'm asking why. Senator: What is the responsibility of the Conspiracy for the situation as it was after this incident?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u149	A respectable president. In fact, the conversation may not have been upbuilding to the senator because the occasion is not upbuilding, but it was the budget of the next year; it does not bring joy or joy. The term collapse government does not apply to the government under management at the beginning of 2009, after the 2008 economic collapse. It is natural that all who have observed politics and lived in this country for more than 20 years know that it was the very course, the privatization plan, and the market interest of the right groups that brought upon us the collapse we could then cope with and are still biting from the needle. [[Up front.]] [[Take it up, that's right.]] Ei causes the guard, says the saying, and when I stand here and more sociologists in the Generalist House and warn of where I am heading now with the personalization plans that are going on the stage and with the market concern that has apparently taken over again among the members of the government, I can hardly be accused of being active in disintegration. [[Up front.]] I'm warning you about the course we're on, okay? A senator, and I believe it would be better if people listened only now. It is only a few years since the collapse that caused us so much misery. In fact, it is kind of scary to observe how fast ideologies are streaming into a way too old.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u150	A respectable president. You know, in a minority party where the Conspiracy is or how things change - I'd like to ask you why. A senator will see if I understand correctly that there's a 9 billion raise in budgeting, if that's the case. I don't see high amounts of money in that infrastructure. Hv. A senator disputed that money was missing in the construction of these funds. But I ask, where do their suggestions on that? The groups that now govern are taxing on the banks that the former government did not have the courage to do. I'm asking why. A senator: Where are their suggestions? Hv. A senator talked about the climate and the green economy. If she reads the bill and changes, then she'd have to. A senator sees what is put there in forestry and such structure. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u151	A respectable president. It is only to see that a climate fund is laid off in the government budget. The Senator asks about a 9 billion increase in the memory of the part and believes that there is not much of it in the infrastructure, I have to correct matters. A senator as far as I'm concerned. In fact, investments are emphasized in the infrastructure and application programmes of a part of the country in the suggestion of a smaller section. Special effort is provided for maintenance and new construction projects, with the need for a natural need. If I remember this correctly, I don't have the paper in front of me, I think it's in the range of 1,75,2 billion that's suggested to go to this factor.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u152	A respectable president. I'm sorry to interrupt this council meeting and discussion on the budget, but I'd like to announce to the United States General that a meeting was scheduled to be at seven o'clock tonight with representatives of the National Association of the Older Citizens and with a representative of the Department of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Health has been delayed because longer time was needed to collect data from the Ministry of State. The meeting has been canceled and taken from the Generals web. Now it's time to find out when it will be possible to have a meeting, but it will be as soon as possible and likely for tomorrow's lunch break. This information will be received in the next few minutes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u153	A respectable president. I'm sorry that the top of the board has blown off a meeting with the Microcollar Community and the National Association of the Older Citizens. They have nothing to do with coming and meeting with the council and review their viewpoint on the matter. There is no neglect of meeting with the Board of Shepherds. If a financial committee appoints a council to attend their meeting, the Ministry will meet with the meeting whenever it is announced, whenever necessary, and with a short notice. On the other hand, if the greater part has to make some figures or forms that do not exist in the Ministry of finance because it does not have evidence to back up what the government has been saying about the poor treatment of the elderly and the desperate in the case, it is different. I would feel right, then, that the older citizens' union and the Scaring Community would come for a meeting, and then the government would bring their own plots once they're prepared for it, even if they're later. But if you can confirm a luncheon meeting tomorrow, it's a lot quicker than the meeting's off, and it's also a short notice, a respectable president. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u154	A respectable president. This group voted against the natural retrospective increases in payments for micro-organists and pensioners at a meeting here yesterday. It was a disgrace to this greater part, and it is understandable that the same majority of things are difficult to meet the elderly and desperate ones at a meeting of legal committees, especially since the meeting will be open to the media, since this discussion is not of this kind and not that it merely defended us here. This is about the whole of Iceland, and this is about the whole nation, and it's very unconvincing, to the point of a deeper note, that it's behind the fact that the Ministry of finance is not ready for numbers. A respectable president. So much I know, to have been Ministers of Iceland's Government for four years, that the Ministry of finance is normally ready with numbers and, above all, on the calendar, when we are in the middle of December, the Ministry of finance is ready with numbers unless there is something to do for the miserable cause of the greater part. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u155	Mr. President. The explanation of the deferral of this meeting sounds like a weak excuse. If that's the right thing to do. Councilmen who support the highest order. The government has taken a stand on matters of the ideal age and disability of the elderly without having to examine all the data, and it is a crime of its own. What evidence is not available in the Ministry of finance or the Ministry of Health for the benefit of the elderly and disability? What kind of bullshit is this, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u156	A respectable president. I must say, I am very disappointed when I listen to spokesmen at the moment. ... anticoagulation. Why? Because it's not default, and I know it because I've been on both sides of the table and have been working with one another. The members of the council here when I was in a position of government, that all wishes are made at once. when they appear, they are in opposition. We've been through such things many times. When this request came out, they said we should try to do it as fast as possible. I told them this morning at a meeting that, of course, they were aware that they were able to get a representative of the Ministry to this meeting with the needed data. No one said no, it would be better now. I even said private conversations today with all of them. The government of opposers I discovered was less likely to do so. I got everybody on the committee unless I think one. Walking this way, making peace with the joy of holding this meeting if possible - if one comes and criticizes it, it is something special so that the river is not further advanced. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u157	Mr. President. It's been over a day and a half since we asked for a meeting. The Ministry has had rather a long time to put together and add numbers, if that's what it's all about. We wanted to see a representative of older citizens and desperate people to listen to their viewpoints, not to listen to the Ministry's viewpoint on some numbers. This is about a single - change operation that is supposed to represent in some way the cost. It doesn't take much calculation to do that. We are correcting the ideals of people to the level of those who are in the workforce back in time to 1st and until the end of the year. That's what it's all about. It's not supposed to be just about dollars and pennies. Billions to or from what it costs are in the clear. To say that the present government has done this and that its former government has made it. [[The president calls.]] It's not about that. It's about correcting discrimination.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u158	A respectable president. There was nothing else to hear at the moment. The vice president of the budget board, but that members of Congress should be ever and ever grateful for having been invited to a meeting because the majority of them had decided to do so by their kindness. It so happens that it is the privilege of the senators to make a hearing for a meeting at the council. It's bound in Congress law. It was on that basis that the smaller part of the budget committee requested an additional meeting at the budget board to discuss the event yesterday when the management staff, the no-parties against the microchip, took for granted a proposal to reimburse micropigment as any employee in Iceland has received. This was on the basis of which it was made and the need to listen to it here that the directors lack data to discuss the matter after 2nd. ... aboutthecharities. After 2nd. the budget does not trust the government to face the desperate and the elderly at an open meeting in a financial committee. They are hiding behind government officials in the Ministry of finance and prospective Ministers as well as some combination that is of no importance in this regard. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u159	President. I appreciate the quick response. A senator, chairman of the budget board, to inform at least that a meeting was canceled. The announcement to have a meeting this evening for dinner arrived at 15 minutes this morning. Some nine hours or so, you can assume that some data work was done and probably earlier, since this case was being discussed yesterday and earlier. There should have been plenty of time to achieve the information mentioned. I've done quite a lot of work on data and I don't see that there's enough explanation to explain why a meeting can't be held and to talk about the issues being presented to the meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u160	Mr. President. Who could have thought that a meeting would have to be postponed to discuss the interest of older ones and disability because the Ministry of finance did not have numbers on hand? Who could think of this meeting this morning that the Ministry would not arrive when the council called them, that the European Commission would not see to it that when the council calls them, they arrive? Just for word's sake. paritaprevir Guðlaugur's Þór, the god of Þórðarson, who is the vice president of the night. The budget board. He referred to personal conversations. He hasn't had a personal conversation with me all day and yet I'm one-third of my share. The budget board. A conversation may have occurred, but it has not occurred with at least one legal committee representative.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u161	A respectable president. I'm not on a budget board. I'm just one of the senators who expected this meeting, that there might be some sign of conscience coming up in the government section. Interestingly, the fact that figures are not ready for the employees of the Ministry of finance is not readily available. What was the meaning of this meeting? Was she immersing visitors with some form of persuasion, or was it the purpose of the meeting to listen to the elderly's viewpoint and desperateness? It has been calculated as to what it takes to correct the adjustment back to May 1, which costs 6.6 billion. In the past, however, it has been difficult to convince the president. The budget board. I don't know any better than it cost 30 million. K. To convince her that the land hospital's information about her business conditions was correct, cost 30 million. K. The assessment. However, the lack of numbers that are supposed to exist in the Ministry of finance for the cost of this retrospective correction does not sound convincing. [[The president calls.]] It's a cover.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u162	A respectable president. I thought the meeting that was supposed to be tonight should have been between each other. The legislature board and representatives of the poor and the elderly. I don't quite understand where the Ministry should be coming in. I don't know why we have to blow this meeting because they're not there. I think it's a bit of the old politics we're trying to get rid of. We need to listen to these people and what they have to say, and I thought the meeting would give us a chance to listen. Why does the Ministry have to be there? I don't understand. What numbers do we find there? Isn't this all in some excel documents that can be looked up and calculated? I don't know what's supposed to be so complicated about it. Is there a need for re-education at the Ministry? What's the matter? Or is it, as mentioned here, merely intended to drown people with numbers and corneal shows?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u163	Mr. President. It is a challenge for the government to see that she is now looking for the light of light in all things to justify refusing the elderly and the microchip to reorganize ups from May 1. [[Up front.]] - Officers, I'd like to say, good Americans. It is so pathetic that it is attempted to be beaten down by some combination of the financial department that it is due to be met by a flood of numbers to justify the government's efforts not to correct the ideals of the elderly and the desperate ones again. This meeting was designed to listen to the viewpoints of these groups, but it seems that only a well - armed flood would seem to be possible. However, people do not eat cake or poles or raise percentages in these substances. It doesn't always mean to be boxing with the former government like it's some Don Quixote in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u164	A respectable president. There may be some who are down there. Senators don't have the experience we have. The budget is by reviewing the government's budget. It's totally new if you always agree on numbers and how to interpret them, etc., it's totally new. But that's not what it's all about. I think it's very important that we hold this meeting and he will be held. He'll be held at lunch tomorrow, and we'll have the deputies they wanted. Of course, if we discuss these matters, we will receive all the necessary evidence to discuss this matter. Don't you think everybody's happy about it? Is not this discussion really so important? I don't think anyone can honestly argue that the simplest things in the state are a social security system. I don't think I'm going to take anything big when I say there's some complicated points in it. But that is not the point. The key point is that a meeting was requested, so we became involved, not between discussions. We were ahead of time, and everyone knew why. Committee members. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The meeting will be a little delayed, but we'll hold it and I'll bet it'll be fine.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u165	A respectable president. I agree with what's been said that it's not good for this meeting to be made over because there's some kind of evidence missing from the Ministry. As we have learned here, he was primarily interested in hearing what desperate and pensioners had to say about it. At this point, I guess we can't force a meeting tonight. I think it's very important that we have confirmation that this meeting will be at a certain time and that it's struck, and we can trust it. I'll ask them... [[Up front.]] Is that why the meeting will be at 12 tomorrow?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u166	Tomorrow's lunch break.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u167	When the lunch break is tomorrow, okay?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u168	Mr. President. Now, let us not overextended matters. The minority asked for a financial committee to meet with the European Union of the Elderly and the Microcollar Union, that's what they wanted. This was then the major part that emphasized that the same meeting was represented by the Ministry of finance. There is nothing against it, Mr. President, and I suggest that this meeting be held tonight, with older people and micropunchers who have already declared themselves ready to attend the meeting. Of course, if the more part is not counting on the arguments presented there, and is not able to take the discussion with the elderly and desperate, which I am not surprised that he is in trouble with, then, of course, if more of this is needed, it is not necessary to have another meeting tomorrow with the Ministry so that the Ministry can support more part of the discussion, hopefully with some data, if it is the majority of the financial committees need to meet with these people. Of course, a certain understanding of this needs to be understood. But there is no reason to keep the meeting with those who were initially asked to meet with them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u169	A respectable president. I'd like to reiterate that you're absolutely right. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir noted earlier, it's a natural thing that we want to talk to a representative of disability and pensioners on an equal basis. I think it's time for the political bitch in Iceland to go to that level. In fact, this would have been a pivotal meeting in the history of a financial committee, where he was finally to be an open media so that the media could see the convention plans. It would've been a revelation for everyone to see it. I'm glad to hear what you're hearing. paritaprevir Guðla Viðr Þórðarson said that there will be a meeting in the lunch break tomorrow whenever it is now. But again, I have to reiterate that I don't understand why the Ministry has to be there unless, of course, to drown us in numbers as has been customary so far, which is naturally unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u170	A respectable president. I understand that this meeting is delayed now very well, for although I have very little experience with a session of a budget board during the last term, I remember that even though a budgetary committee had in front of her all the numbers she needed to work with next year's budgets, including how much money it could go to any jury. I give it to myself that the present majority of the legal committees have had access to all the ignominious financial and welfare information they have received from the Ministry. I find this extremely awkward approach to those who now seem to be leaving behind in a poverty trap, and I hope that I feel that the problems and cowardly ways are considering the government officials and councilmen are wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u171	A respectable president. Of course, it's a terrible thing to say that the head of the Ministry is not ready for any kind of data. Chairman of the budget board. It is known, then, that keeping the person waiting is a prominent way of business and communication. Today, older ones and microadolescents are being treated with quite unscrupulous rudeness and arrogance by proclaiming them to a meeting at ten hours' notice and then postponing the meeting or by virtually immediately postponing it. It is an abomination to a group that confronts a power agency that the World Council holds out to the fund. This meeting doesn't need numbers, it just needs to be done. Will is all that is needed in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u172	President. Hv. A senator and the vice president of the legal committee spoke here about numbers and how they need to be interpreted and that people rarely agree on the interpretation of numbers. I'd like to correct it just because numbers are just numbers and speak their own language. Yes, it is possible to lie with statistics, etc., but it is the words of men who need to interpret and explain better, just to be perfectly clear. The numbers just speak their own language.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u173	A respectable president. This is not a matter of Congress experience or the experience of a session on a budget board. It's not about social security complications either. It's nothing about that, it's about the simple request, the simple desire of a smaller part of the budget board to talk directly to the relevant person whose negatives were turned away to vote yesterday, the management, to talk to the elderly and desperate between the two persons, and to get their position and conversation about this matter. That's what it's all about. That's exactly what happened. paritaprevir Ólína Þorvarðardóttir daughter, there is an insult to the people who have been invited to the meeting to discuss this serious matter with such brief notice that the authorities lack data. If I've understood a president right today, I have a case here until 3rd. Is that how we handled it without bringing down enough data? Did they come here for votes last night without any evidence to substantiate the case? What kind of congregation is this, a respectable president? In this regard, there is nothing to trust in the words of the directors of a budget board. [[The president calls.]] I wish that members of Congress will be called together, and it will be handled safely or safely when this meeting will be held and that the exact date of the meeting will be announced is not to be trusted in the words of the highest legal committee. [[Take it up to noon tomorrow.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u174	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Björn Valur Gíslason basically stole the crime from me, for the serious issues presented in this discussion are what happened. The head of the budget board, that governments have agreed on basic questions about the standard of living for tens of thousands of Iceland's people, the elderly and the desperate, without bringing in enough data from the government department or the Ministry of finance, and it will have to be made up of data behind this decision. It raises questions as to whether the advance team has finally reached some sort of glove chamber with the Independence Party, had no independent policy on these issues, just taking on some numbers prepared in the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Of course, it would be best for the elderly to have the time to arrive for dinner, as planned, and to allow them to study their language and to receive those figures later. However, this statement is confirmed by the vice president of the budget board that the meeting will be held for lunch tomorrow. [[The president calls.]] I trust that there will be no more, but I'm sorry for the levy that has been here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u175	Mr. President. Yesterday, when we asked for the meeting, it was said that a minimum notice for a meeting would be appropriate for us to have dinner off tonight. The same seems to be true of his omission to these same visitors, so it will be a blow if we just think about it. I just want to reiterate that I think it's very special. When I spoke to my associates in the memory of getting these people to meet us, they were primarily to listen to their point of view, not that more things and smaller parts of the legal committee could begin to fry whether anyone had ever done anything, but to listen to these people first, and then we could sit down, whether people wanted to play with numbers or not. I think it's far more important to think of these people here called after being corrected for the differences that will be even greater if these do not work out right now, i.e. back to May 1 and then the sparkling will be even greater between the lowest paid and disabilityd and older citizens. That's what we're talking about. We're not talking about this into 2016's budget, they're standing, but a monotonous operation to fix this position.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u176	Mr. President. It is true what was said here before that this case is not about numbers. It's about wanting, good heart condition, and setting priorities, that's what it's all about. Of course, it is very sad if the majority have not considered the possibility of reproducing the elderly and the desperate, that they have not been viewed in the administrative sector, and therefore there is no information to it. It is surprising, of course, that people can just say no and have not considered the possibility that elderly and desperate people will have returned, like any paid person in the country who has made contracts in the past year. I feel that this greater part is a disgrace to me not even considering that, not even having examined it. It is now evident when people are so exposed to this, that they have no numbers to show what these advantages are, but the government has these numbers, so they don't have to look far beyond their limits.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u177	Madam President. We'll discuss budgets for the coming year. Like the budget bill with the changes made by a greater proportion of legal committees, it is clear that much has been done well when it comes to the government of government. It should be maintained. On the other hand, in the years to come, there is an enormous task to be carried out on the fund. The problem is also clear. All council members need to consider whether there is any reason to adopt only a change in practice when it comes to financial decisions and how the funds of the coming year are handled. I've wondered myself if I should not record the A- and B- and even the C-sections of state funds. In the A-section of the budget, the expenses we thought were the basis of the state's basic role, i.e. Social security expenses, health expenses, education expenses, internal expenses, transport, law enforcement, etc., except, of course, the governance system itself. This is the basic role of the state. The rest of this is about 100 billion, which does not constitute the basic role of the State, but this does not mean that there are no material reasons for the sake of the State or the state's financial resources. But they are apart from this basic role. What I'm trying to say is that I believe that this meeting is to begin with members of Congress on future losses whether it would be wise for us to change our practices in such a way that at first we can secure the necessary resources of the state, in social security, in education, health matters, transportation, and law enforcement. When that is settled, we can start handling expenses for other issues, many of which are certainly needed and deserve assistance. The discussion of budgets each year is marked by a person's being busy looking ahead of his 12 months, having difficulty looking to the future and making decisions that may be wise in the long run, resulting in saving, but perhaps in a short period of time, may increase his expenses. This discussion is no exception. This is especially true when it comes to health care. They also avoid going into the discussion that I consider so important, which is, What is the role of the government? What do we expect from the government and the government funds? Why do we share in running the treasure of the Kingdom? I've studied those roles. I believe it is our duty to ensure that the state of its primary obligation, and then we can deal with other matters. An enormous number of other tasks are being carried out. I was glad that a smaller percentage of legal committees were included in their members' committee, i.e. Yeah. paritaprevir Pétursdóttir's wife's wife, especially calls attention to her pension commitments and the challenges facing in the years to come if we do not start doing something about that wrestling and deal with the pension commitments. How important it is that we make our commitment to them! It is of great importance to our children and also to our grandchildren, so that we will not always be sending the bill to them. This project, however, accounts for about 500 billion people, depending on how we value it. There are other such projects that we face that are enormously large, and we are not dealing with them. We often address little things here at the Hall of Congress. There is a general need for investment from the public, and especially from the state of the interior. This applies to hospitals, nursing homes, clinics, school, so I don't talk about the road system, ports, the communication system all together, connecting Iceland's high - speed network is becoming one of the biggest settlements on earth. This suggests that the public's cumulative investment needs are about 250 billion dollars. This added to the next ten years the natural investments in the interiors, necessary investments, so that we stay in good condition and improve. There's another 250 billion. This means that in the next decade, we look ahead and over 500 billion dollars. Investment needs in public, state, and rural areas We are not dealing with it in this Assembly Hall how we are going to finance it. No one's talking about it. However, it's a big interest in the public, and I don't see how we're going to attack the necessary investments in hospitals, schools, road system, etc. without us working along private contributions so that they will come to the funding of the necessaryinvestments, members like pension funds on the public market. We're up to 1 up. Billions. The need for investment for the next ten years and then the pension commitments we will have to pay in the decades to come are considerable funds. There are other things we need to do. There's been big words here to say that there's an increase in money cutbacks to senior and disability pensioners. Of course, they can say that there is never too much work to be done there. However, we have failed despite repeated efforts for many, many years, called after a committee to jump up and change social security laws. We haven't been able to get together with the simple improvement system, combine eulogy classes of sensibilities, and replace with microenergy assessments, which is a great interest in disability. We won't talk about it. We do not discuss that despite all of that, the social security improvements will be 17.1% higher at the start of the next year than they were at the beginning of 2014, at the same time as the prices have been increased by 7.1%. There are groups, including scarring, which are extremely difficult. We must ask ourselves, " How can it be that our expensive complex system cannot hold onto our arms and ensure that those who have fallen in good standing? ' The time comes when the system is broken, it's defective. You see, this is not always about putting extra money on litigation classes. It's about how money is used and how the guidelines are. They're defective. The General has failed despite repeated attempts to change this system, which everyone agrees is a defect. We can't simplify it, make it useful. Maybe the experiment that's now going into the sand, I don't know. I hope not. I personally participate in the work of that committee. In the fall, I had hope that we would be able to get along with all the major parties. Sadly, it has not worked out, but there is no hope. There are other assignments that we are facing. We need to reorganize our health system. We need to reorganize how to make sure that all the people of the country have access to the best health care at any given time, regardless of their economic situation and their home, as possible. We need to look longer than one year at a time. We cannot rely on ourselves to make a decision, for example, to give certain funds to fight the diabetes B, the acquired diabetes. This would lead to marvelous savings if we were to reduce the number of diabetes. It would result in several hundred million savings for a government fund every year in the form of medical expenses, that I do not talk about things that cannot be measured that are the quality of life to those who gain relief from their illness. But because we always look ahead and refuse to look longer, we are not able to do this. We need to consider that when it comes to financing health care, we are likely to be wrong at work, especially when it comes to financing hospitals, and especially the Hospital and the Akureyri Hospital, which are the vertebral systems of the Icelandic Health Organization. It is very special to give all the responsibilities laid down in the Land Hospital and then plan to care for them on the basis of regular financial resources each year. I challenge it. Councilmen starting a discussion on how to change the level of funding in the medical system, especially when it is time for the National Hospital and Hospital in Akureyri. In the following year, people can come in with an invitation to proclaim several billion more to Land Hospital, but that will not solve the underlying problem. The basic problem lies in our system; the funding and how we stand for the finance is wrong. We need to adopt a system that is based on processes, i.e. to have a part of the budget for the Hospital in the form of a fixed budget, but only to be under the head of the hospital, under property and other fixed costs, but to have everything else on the basis of a contract between Iceland's Hospital and Medical Insurance, where there is an agreement on careers. It may be that one year, I'm not smart at how many of them are every year, but I say they're a thousand, and they're paid under a thousand hearts contract. The next year, they may be 1,500. According to our system now, the hospital is a problem. He needs to care for these patients, but the financial crisis that the funds have created makes him virtually impregnable unless in some other way he is affected by the hospital. What happens also if we pick up funding, financing on the basis of the contract between Iceland's Medical Insurance and the Land Hospital, the cost is on the surface. We'll know how much things cost. This will make it easier for the funds to make decisions accordingly. In this context, when it comes to health care, we need to pay attention to health care. Sadly, for many years health care, especially in the capital area, has met with considerable rest. Thousands of capital cities, more precise numbers, are not available, but there are most likely 30 thousand without a family physician. These individuals in dire need to approach either the medical staff or, more often, the Hospital. This adds to the pressures and costs of the land hospital and provides the most expensive means of caring for the needs of individuals in need of health care. Similarly, it is clear that much of the land hospital's problems today is the fact that when it comes to the building of nursing homes and home services for the elderly, we have not done well. This adds to the pressures of the Land Hospital, resulting in an even greater cost for the Hospital. I think a great deal of the problem of the Land Hospital is because the basic supplies, including Health care is not what it should be. In the ups and downs, that's what we need to do, i.e. to build up our health - care providers, of course, should we take advantage of the examples we have. The examples we have do not need to go far. All we have to do is get up to Kopavog. We need to go to school for the good of a good person, former health minister, Jón Kristjánsson's son, and learn from his efforts to ensure that a new health care was opened in Salavagi. The results of this business are exemplary, since the service is unique, the satisfaction of the population is far superior to that of others, and the cost of health care is much lower than in similar places. In fact, it can be said that if you did as well in business and in the service at all other clinics and have managed with the medical clinic in Sala County, we will soon be able to afford to open up new health care facilities because such is the waste of the system. Before I begin a list of health care systems, it is worth considering also a major matter of justice. Senators need to work alone. They're implementing a health care system. It cannot be seen that individuals who suffer from chronic illness need to go into enormous expense, as we have known, hundreds and even millions of dollars. It's not working. We need to introduce an investment system similar to that of the drug system and try to avoid financial difficulties in individuals. This was in the mind of late Senator Blöndalur Björn, one of the greatest cases of justice a congregation could ever achieve. It would be appropriate for humans not to amplify this assembly without taking at least the first steps in this direction. I'm gonna go over some housing business, too. We place a huge amount of money on a house - to - house matter. When it comes to housing, they are making significant initial announcements. At least I have some concerns ahead of time. There is going to be an increase in the amount of money in the apartment loans in the coming year. It's supposed to be under 7 billion on interest. There's supposed to be a good deal of rent money, 1.5 billion, if I remember correctly. We must begin to wonder about this. Since the year 2000, since the turn of the century, the government budget has set 242 measures. Millions in housing; 60 billion were to prevent the bankruptcy of the apartment loans. There will be 80 billion who entered the debt correction that not all are happy about. Let it be between parts. So over the 15 years, we've put 242 yous on. Millions in housing. Even so, many families have lost their homes. Despite this, many people face economic difficulties because of their shopping at an apartment house. We must ask ourselves, " Wait, how can it be with all this money that the situation is so that you have to use 80 sets? ' How Would You Answer? Clearly, there is a political conflict about whether we run a special policy or a lease. As part of the United States, we are clearly concerned that we should disappear from our special policy and go to our rented policies. I disagree because specialism is the best way to ensure financial independence from individuals, who must be a special issue of government at any given time. It has been shown that during retirement, rent policy will tie people and catch them in a poverty trap. So it's a great interest, and if we don't secure the progress of the Special Policy then I'm predicting that there is a large increase in the expense of social security here in the coming years and decades because people didn't take over and secure financial independence from individuals. How could we have used the 242 yous? Millions in a more reasonable way? We could've delivered you 40. Family 20% budget 30 million. K. Possession. In other words, if your family has about 10%, 3 million, to 30 million. K. An apartment is 30% instead of 10%. So it's already a table for a table. This is of utmost importance to these people because in the near future they increase their resources when they do not have to pay off as much as anyone else's. I think we should talk about this, at least. When it's low. A body of laws that have been submitted or put forward after years, on housing matters, are discussed by the World Translation, for this is an enormous interest. This is what I believe we should discuss thoroughly in this chamber. I heard part of a talk coming from you. paritaprevir The Árni of Páll the son of Árnason, president of the United States, last night. It was as expected. Hv. A senator works hard at the political auction market. It's normal, I don't make comments about it. However, many people must pause at the threats of the chairman of the United Nations for a considerable amount of tax increases in the years to come, when the United States has something to say how society will be shaped, where income taxes of individuals are to be renewed, and then other taxes, especially in companies. At least he's not going to look at our experience when we made the decision to reduce corporate income taxation from 50% to 18%, and the government's tax from income tax grew completely, from 0.9% of GDP to 1.5%. The lesson I learned from this is that moderation in the tax system leads to increased income. I don't understand. The same can be said of all the tax reductions in the 1990's. When taxes were dropped, and some even took away, the total pay of the State increased. How nice it would be to do that, but not always be in the budget! At expenses, we place about 13 measures. Millions in the coming year to checkout agencies. Of course, it is the cost of employment and individuals, but it is not the only cost that comes from the activities of these institutions, many of which, of course, are doing a lot of work and an important job. The direct cost of Icelandic enterprises due to official surveillance is estimated not to be less than 20 billion a year. Then I rely on a report made by the National Institute of Economics in 2004 that has taken into account the changes that have taken place. It's probably a little underestimated. This means we have an annual direct cost from a surveillance facility of 240 yous. K. to each family of four. This is followed by indirect costs, less competitiveness, etc. We're getting out of the ashes to the fire when it comes to this. I've had a good time getting numbers together sometimes. When I compare numbers, they reflect that it's better now. We all have a better perspective when listening to talks. Senators. Still, we are brighter, and this gives us the opportunity to do more. I've been counseling men to take on the necessary tasks. Of course, it must be noted that if we compare in 2009 with the 2016 program, according to the development of a greater proportion of legal committees, we will see that the government's taxes will be 70% higher in the coming year than they were in 2009. At least 60% of the population's income taxes will be higher than that year, and companies will pay more than 120% in income taxes. Insurance costs will be 87% higher, etc. When you see these numbers, you must stop and say, "Wait, don't you think there's room to lower taxes a little? Of course, that has been done in part. I myself say we should have gone further. I see the dominant attitude, at least ... ina smallerpartofthecommittee. When you talk about changes in the income tax system, you say so. paritaprevir St Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir, Brynhi: The Kingdom Fund will be of 5.5 billion. It is like a government fund that only earns the income that individuals earn. Then, in view of a smaller percentage of the budgets under 2016, a significant loss in income will be due to tax reform, as compared to 2015. So the kingdom will miss this. I say, the kingdom is most likely to allow people to keep their financial resources on the increase, and this is a time for rejoicing. It is also quite clear that increasing the scope of the increase in income has been used in order to increase the rate of government spending. We see that social assistance is now 60% higher in centenarian than already a whale. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Osse and Pension Insurance, 73% and 49% higher, respectively.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u178	Do you have...?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u179	Of course it's... [[...in the Ministry of State?]] Hv. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson has got to promise me I'll come back and we'll talk. Of course, there are many areas in which we need to improve. We need to place extra money on our health. How else can it be when you watch that the contribution made to the health - care fund dropped by 28 billion between 2009 and 2012? Of course, such cuts have to be made up. He may be explained by people, who were cut. It's been over and over again. During those years, the number of hospitals dropped by 6.9 billion, including 4.3 to the Hospital. Last year, however, the figure was 1.2 billion higher than in 2012 and 5.5 billion higher in real value than 2010 and is still increasing in this year and in the following. They're giving in many places. It is true that we need to reevaluate things. Among other things, I took steps to finance the medical system as a means to provide financial resources. I don't think we're on the right track. I am convinced that it does not serve our interests in Iceland that the fund is only one year old when it comes to health care and has fixed health care supplies. This needs to be changed. It's gonna be a complicated project, but it's not simple, but it's been done at the Land Hospital by picking up and developing an DRG system that is the basis for setting up a budget, to-do or to-do with what you want to call it, even I'll say that money follows a patient who's probably a mortal sin to mention in this council-- that money follows the patient, of course, means that we're making sure of each and one of the necessary services when it comes to health care. There's a lot to do with that stuff, tops. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u180	President. Thank you. A senator for a fine speech. In many ways, I agreed with his content, i.e. how he wants to take the discussion of budgeting, the vision of the future, even though I have disagreed with him about many ways in which he wanted to do so. You see, that's what's been missing here in general about the budget, not just this time, but over the years, i.e. To look to the future and to realize where we're going with the budgets of each year, and then a solid financial system, which is where the policy is. The situation today is that the minister of finance and the government hopes that next year the state's budget will be fired on a couple, almost at zero, with 10 billion dollars. euver, of 700 billion bucks. Let's take. That's right drooling percentages plus side, i.e. The rest, 10 billion left over. That's right, it's a 1 percent drooling. Two years ago, a government fund was returned to the current rulers at 732 million dollars. minus, i.e. on zero according to GPA, at zero and also in 2014 and 2015. Today, less than three years later, there is hope of singing in the same print, i.e. To hope that the government funds will be fired at zero-fourth year in a row. I want to ask you why. A senator: Does the senator feel that this results in an acceptable success of 700 billion dollars? income, over 100 billion dollars. More of a provision than the last government had when she had the right, to give up her state funds next year, perhaps at zero, and needed to rely on interest from the Bank of Lands? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u181	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Björn Valur, son of Gíslason, I'm not going to say warm words to me, but it was possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u182	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u183	But I'll agree with that, of course, the rest would have to be considerably greater, especially when we're looking at the state's debt status. That's the way it went. A senator is going to go out there to raise the rest of the state funds, if I can right, he'll correct me here, increase taxes. However, I say, we are to take the lead in defending the government's resources in a slightly more reasonable way than we now do. We are to adopt the principle that it is the obligation of the financier to finance the basic State's obligations before considering other projects, and it does not matter whether it is a Kingdom TV or something else, even when it comes to sponsoring a considerable number of professional lifes. I agree that, of course, the rest would need to be more. It should be noted, though, that the element is reasonably good. The problem, if we can say so, is interest payments of 52 or 53 billion, if I remember correctly, but the bridge is about 70 billion. Of course, there are funds that we could have used to strengthen our health and social security and to reduce taxes. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u184	A respectable president. Yes, I was kissing my ass. A senator earlier. I was pleased with the material, i.e. when you want to discuss the big movie that's coming up with what's going on here. I repeat the question. In 2009, we cleared the state budget of about 57 billion, 2010 about 50 billion, 2011 about 38 billion, and we returned it in 2013 and you are still floundering. You're still floundering, hoping to turn in the fourth year in a row to zero, and having to rely on the bank's interest to pay. Good and joyful conservatives, the independents of this city would only a few years ago have been covered with shame because they were offering such financial contributions. They would have been returning a budget bill with at least 50 billion leftovers. Instead, this fine category of Independence, which at least knows about money and gives the financial bill here at zero. [[The president calls.]] Fourth year in a row. When will it end? I reiterate the question, "Easy." This is an acceptable success for a state of affairs under the rule of the highest government. The secretary of fjármálaráðherra for Bjarni Bengoreth, that the situation is just like this? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u185	Mr. President. I thought I had now answered the inquiry fairly clearly. I would've preferred there was more money left in the state fund. That's right. I think it would have been possible, but, of course, it's very difficult to stand on the brakes when the requirement is always for increased expenses. But I'm going to take less of it. Of course, a senator was such that a major loss on government expenses was the foundation of much tax increase. [[Up front.]] Yeah, and you want us to... [[Up front.]] That's what I'm talking about. Senator Björn Valur Gíslason to suggest that the government now undergo a marvelous cuts? [[Up front.]] Is it that way... Yeah, right. That could be it. Let's just send the bill to the poor taxpayer, and it's getting a little strange that the taxpayer doesn't seem to have anything to say in this chamber except one or two. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u186	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a good speech and told him that the taxpayers have a complete friend in me, too. When I am badly treated with tax money, I think it is important that when we quarrel with money, it be done in a transparent way, and that it is an equalizing state, that's why I have criticized a very peculiar change proposal for the more part. I'd like to ask you what. A senator only into the penitentiary. I'm very opposed to that operation. I noticed in the discussion of the debt breakdown that there were three independents who spoke and spoke against the breakdown. So spoke the case, which was the highest. Secretary of finance, of course not against it. Others stood back, yet they supported this budget when it came to a vote. I'd like to know if there's anything I can do. In view of the fact that the independent party now speaks for the individual responsibility and that humans are responsible for commitments, a member of the body feels that it is a good provision for public funds to place 80 billion plus in deportation to those who took in security loans. I don't think it's in the spirit of the Independence Party that speaks of responsibilities in government matters, though there may be more to say than on tape, I don't know. I'd love to hear what you're talking about. A senator will think of this. If he was here on the vote, I guess he'd be out of Congress, would he be with me on the red button when it was time to settle 15.5 billion for this operation?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u187	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir's spirit for this question. There are, of course, statements being made here. I'll bet you I didn't approve of going along the way that had already come to the debt correction called. I felt that there were other reasonable ways to go that would improve the use of more and more society. I think I have considered it in my speech earlier, how I believe we have a new government budget, 242 billion dollars. since the turn of the century, in the wrong way. If we are to put 242 billion in housing, we will make reasonable housing arrangements so that we can help the people who are struggling to get their first apartment and thus build up the special policy. Of course, that's the way it is, and it knows why. A senator, that when it comes to politics and cooperation, they support one another and make compromises. Of course, if it were for me to be at the Senate Hall, I would support the government in this case; otherwise, I would be completely irresponsible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u188	A respectable president. I agreed with some of them. In his speech, a senator said that we need to change, that we have a variety of systems that we need to change. I'm amazed at how hard it is for us to get into these systems. I agree with what. Senator I hope we have the best chance to get into the payment system as well. paritaprevir Blöndal H. The Volunteer worked hard - if not, it would be disappointing. I have also wondered at the Hall of Congress that we senators are not used when it comes to molding policies or participating in some project like this, of course not in the order of this. But talking about health - care systems is a real challenge in many places. Why are projects always stuck in the plot? Why do we not try to achieve a greater prerogative for a future with which all of us are responsible? We're here because we have opinions, but we just sit in our seats and wait for things to come, and then we're voting. I'd like to make more use of the council. I want to hear what you're doing. A senator feels that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u189	Mr. President. Let's talk about it. A senator is like a music made of Skavetum to my ears, either by Eyþór Stefánsson or by Geirmundur Valtýsson. I couldn't agree with you more. A senator said that the problem is the problem we have with the system or with the system. I don't know any better than that. paritaprevir and president of the budget board, Hauksdóttir Hauksdotttir, and vice president of the budget board, why. paritaprevir Gulsome Þórðarson, in fact, pointed out that the system defends itself by its amazing nature and, in fact, sometimes assumes the power of the money to be here. [[Up front.]] It's supposed to be a common debate for all reason. Councilmen taking over the power back and establishing their policies here, but not in state institutions, and not councils, etc. It's supposed to be a joint project, and I'm ready for this journey, huh? paritaprevir Brynhildur Pétursdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u190	Mr. President. Unlike a number of discourses that have been given, why? A senator was a pivotal problem. Until then, I would have been willing to support him from a series of independent men to lead a financial committee and even as a minister of finance as well. But here, the previous spokesman in the Northern Hemisphere spoke for the so-called voodoo economics. No one takes that cause anymore except why. Senator. He used an example. He claims to remember the time when this was the government of an independent party that I was in, in fact, in fact, sitting in and paying taxes on companies and promoting various tax reductions, which resulted in a tremendous improvement in the quality of the company. [[Up front.]] [[Taken to: noticed...]] [[Up front.]] During my last term I also sat in the government, but then I raised taxes, and then began the longest economic growth in the history of Iceland. What should we conclude from this? We must not choose such specific examples in history to end our life. I don't think I'm against this opinion at all. Senator. But I appreciate his opinion. I think he's got a good will. I'd like to ask him about his position on how it's going here? Hv. A senator spoke of the surveillance industry and referred to a report that, in fact, contained a period in which his band was in power, he spoke of 1,3,000 million going into it. Yes, you're right, it's way too much, but this year, under the Head of Independence Party, it's 7,700,700,800 million more. What does it say? A senator of that? Is Independence Taking the Lead? Hv. A senator spoke of the system being swollen. Yeah, we're going for it. A senator to view it as irresponsible of himself if he acted according to his convictions, if he were present, and to vote against what he is in his heart against, which are three new institutions, the office of the State Master, the management center of travel, and the embassies I was putting away in savings? The last one, the last three jobs of the government, I ask why. A senator: Does he trust himself to say that he is in his heart to agree with this? [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] If he isn't, would he vote for this? He's gonna be like a boy. þm. The Guðlaugur Þór, who walks the whiphole and votes with what he opposes? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u191	Mr. President. At least I would walk a whip tunnel in the middle of nowhere. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson would have the whip because it would be easy to pass through those whips, easily passing through those whipholes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u192	...never a man.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u193	Well, that's what I'm talking about. Well, that's what I'm talking about. Senator. That's right, I'm sure we can do much better when it comes to the institutions of the state. I think we're adding too much money. I'm convinced of it, but it doesn't change it, and it doesn't know an old, experienced fox in politics, boy. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson and a multitasking minister, of course, are already looking at the big picture. The big picture is that it's getting a hell of a lot of money here, but, of course, there are some things I have to consider. I'm telling you, when it happened. paritaprevir Össur Skarphéðinsson has voted with the budget bill of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir and Steingrímur J. Sigfússon if he didn't agree with every aspect of that bill, but he voted for it. Or is it wrong, or is it wrong? paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Osse, that you have not agreed with all of that, or with all the expenses and all the actions that were in the budget of the Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir's Government. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u194	Mr. President. I was in my heart at odds with many proposals for cutbacks in the last government, but I knew that it was necessary to attack. The talk of the matter at the moment. A senator was saying that in his speech, at least in the part that I listened to, he was saying: "He believes that under the head of the Independence Party, the government is not getting along enough in controlling expenses, not in resisting the formation of new institutions. I agree with him on that, absolutely, but that doesn't mean much to him or to him. paritaprevir The Þór of Thord, the son of Þórðarson, was instructed to come here as white-sized angels, that I would not say as boys going to Sunday school, and would drift away into their own works. These two gentlemen are both going to vote against proposals that will lead to the opening of a embassy that we've closed before, which will be two new institutions, and which will lead to the fact that in a time that has never been as good as ever, the governor of the United States, we're not going to be better off than last year, in terms of the survival of the state's budget. [[The president calls.]] It's probably nothing more than a drop in the test. [[The president calls.]] I have to say exactly as it is, Mr. President, with all due respect. A senator shows that only one financial minister has managed to cut down properly, and that vera Steingrímur J. Sigfugson. [[The president calls.]] They should go to his school. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u195	Mr. President. I thought it was a remarkable statement. A senator and former minister of foreign affairs, the Össur of Skarphéðinsson before. So he followed the course that appeared in budgets year after year in the kingdom of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon. A senator, now, listen, to cut down contributions to the health institutions, to social security, to reduce the improvement to the alco- and disability pensioners, while extra expenses for the surveillance agencies, place hundreds of millions in bellate as well. True, a senator ruled as an army officer until he gave up until then. A senator had to give up and stop the discussion. [[...for ever talking about it...]] [[Yeah.]] [[A general study report.]] [[Taken out to:]] [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] But this is a remarkable statement. [[The president calls.]] I'm going, top dog. President, to keep that statement very productive. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u196	A respectable president. I'm going to start with that, before I go into the budget myself or change, to mention some facts on the subject, on social security, and on the elderly and on the desperate. I'd like to start by reviewing what has been done in the election season. We put the priority on reducing the decline as reformers in the days of the former government. As early as the summer of 2013, the rule was that pension income income lost a shallow pension. Valuable markets for professional pensioners and disability were raised. A money market for a pension fund was raised. A cross-requisition agreement on social insurance benefits and pension funds was extended. The cut-off rate of income insurance was reduced to 38.35% on January 1, 2014. So, as promised, the final government has been completely removed. This means improvement is 7.4 billion. ... higherayear than else would be. What is to be done this year and the next: Farmers will rise by 14.2 billion on January 1, 2016 or by 9.7%. This number contains 3.9 billion which is a retrospective increase due to annual pay development. This is added to 4.3 billion that the elderly and the poor received in January 2014 but not others. A total of 8.2 billion in pay development during 2015. As a result, an increase in older people's quality and disability between January 2015 and January 2016 is a total of 18.5 billion. Together, action will be returned during the season, since next year's improvement will be 26.8 billion higher than it would have been. There are 26.8 billion that go directly to the elderly and poor, a total of 17.1%. The fact is, January 1 raised the elderly and poorer by 3%. That was 4.3 billion. There they were before others. Now, on January 1, 2016, they rise by 9.7%, that is 3.9 billion. That's where they're after someone else. On January 1, 2017, if we assume there will be an 8% increase there, they are there first. The increases in the general market are being implemented in May/June. Public market increases are being carried out in April/Mami, based on the pay number. So let's ask ourselves, " How much higher is the social security gains on January 1, 2016? ' The health benefits of social security will rise by 9.7%, as noted above, under legal advice at 2nd. Previously, they had been suggested to rise by 9.4%. That means singles' benefits will be 246,902k. magazines a month, now 225,060 a.m. per month. The daughters of a person who lives with others will be 212,776 k. per month, which is 193,962 k. per month. This increase will take into account the reevaluation of Iceland's Economic Standards in November of the development of a pay grade that will result in a loss of pay. There is an increase in the average population in both the current year and the next year. This means that the average increase in pay in 2015, beyond 3% in terms of improvement in social security at the beginning of this year, is included in the increase in 2016 budget. If the 3% increase occurs, there is a cumulative increase over the two years of 13%. A cumulative increase of 17.1% is also considered to be 3.6% in 2014. The cumulative increase in prices at the same time is 7.1%. Will benefits be accompanied by minimum wage? The minimum wage increased on May 1, 2015, and is your 245. K. month to May 1, 2016. Therefore, the quality of the social security for singles will be in excess of the minimum labour market wage with an increase of 1 January 2016. [[Up front.]] Why are the benefits increased by 9.7% during the New Year's season? What is behind it? The futures of social security, according to the budget bill, are raised on the basis of page 69.g. Act on social security which is as follows: social security, as well as pay Sixty-three. and sums of money. 22nd But let it be changed annually according to the budget. Their decision should take into account pay development, although it will never increase less than the price of the consumer price. What does this tell us? That this 9.7% has included the increase that others have received this year. So all talk about not improving the elderly and the microorganisms are failing. There's no trick. The numbers speak for themselves. But if we go up to the bill and the adjustment of the proposals, then all we can do is rejoice that once again we have no financial laws. The crown's strength - the famous dollar that some would like to throw into the ocean's eye - gives us over a billion; less inflation one and a half billion. It has to be taken into account that 70 billion interest dollars must play a large part in this equation, whether we're making a lot of money. We can actually draw better numbers if we want to. We can plan some kind of profit from the banks. We can draw it for a behagur start and make it taller. But in fact, we won't profit from it. You'll see. Although we carefully plan to make money, we are not losing any income. He'll still be here. We can draw, as the smaller part does in its bill, add an IRS of 4 billion. We can have some barbiturates. We can use it by drawing something more beautiful. But let's be realistic. Instead, let us be cautious in income management plans and then show how much money we make or improve tax control. There's been a little bit of an improvement in the IRS, so let's just hope that that's all. If we look at the cost side. It is estimated that there is a high level of work to be done in general - many are getting at most as to what is now to be built upon this institution. But there's a bit of striking numbers if we start thinking about it. It's a bit of a big job. There are over 100 people here working outside the council. I think there's over 120 employees here, so it's a pretty big business. It costs up to $3 billion to run this company. There's a small number, and we're paying 12.5 million rent for the house around us a month. Less than 150 million each year go to rent. I was taught that if it was possible, if space were possible, people should try to own their own housing rather than a rented house. I think it must come in that year of goodness that we can build over this institution so that we're not paying hundreds of millions of rent a year. If we just cross the committee's opinion. A financial committee has hosted 42 communities. A financial committee has listened to 42 companies in the fall and received reviews from them and receives more, the Government Accounting, the Habitat, the Union of Icelandic rural society, representatives from the national organisations and members of the United States. I ask: What is a budget board for if it is not to be taken into account by these individuals who are putting in the envelopes and reporting their status? I mean, this bill and these changes are very good for the rural population. If the changes are carried out and largely put into the structure of wood, the bill has to be a genuine base policy. It has to be said that after a collapse and after a great cut in which the previous government went - it did well in it, you can say that there was nothing bad at all - it tells itself that now, as we begin to rise from the wave valley, there is a great gathering need for investment in the interior. So let us not be shocked if the remainder is not so high at first. On page 18. 2 of the committee's opinion says: As to additional privileges, 6th pars. provides more of the general authority for the Scorpio to sell the nonnew land in order to get it ready or to use in a different way. The importance of the source is linked, e.g. Based on the work of the Agency and the Thomson's work on fracture risk based on the Skaftyear crisis, where and in other rural areas there has been evidence of the need for internal improvements. In particular, the distribution system of electricity and communication needs to be improved. The local viewpoint has been just as much to explain the government's policy of the use of the land owned by the official shortage. It has been observed that there is a follow-up of a future programme on earth that is falling out of the packaging and its use. Such uncertainty weakens the future in Thomson, a number of lands owned by the government and when the habitats are not weakened. The majority suggest that some of the resources or products of the earth have to be sold in an effort to reinvest the electrical network and to fix fiber optics. It will be sought to sell land for housing or harmony with other farms after the traditional sales process of government property. Since the earth's trade process is long and its progress is uncertain, the amount of money and the extent of it will not be attacked. It's just a matter of time, it may not be a question whether or not, when it's completely ruined in places like this. With a project like this, you have to believe that if you go to the infrastructure in this area, these soils will be more likely to sell. This is one fine example of the spirit of this bill, which is being nurtured in the scattered regions. As it turned out in this opinion of the Thomson River, communication has become a major factor in the development of the country. Many rural communities visited the Committee discussed the need for communication reform. The majority suggest that an additional proposal in the bill be given a telecommunication fund of 200 million. K. to develop fiber optic systems outside the market area of communication. The 2nd. The budget for 2015 awarded 300 million to the General Assembly. K. a temporary donation for one year to the fund, and this suggests that part of the contribution will be extended. In Western Europe, ring-links were implemented, and Snæfellsnes and the linking of non-connected regional cores according to the current communication programme. The proposal in the bill is now based on the work of the Minister of Ministers on communications improvements, Iceland light-related, and the possibility of completing the building plans that began in 2015. I shared in this work with some difficulty. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, and we've been working on this for almost two years now. So I'm very happy that this project is now being given over half a billion so that people can approach the same situation as here in the Big Reygies. The status of communication is in many ways high in this country and active competition guarantees most market areas options for continuous, more efficient and safer network connections. However, this structure does not cover some 3,300 legal homes and employment facilities in the more remote regions of the country. The structure of rural fiber systems will be limited in terms of market planning. So such an assignment must be given for financial gain. There is an analysis of the extent and cost of the target bioavailability of at least 100 Mb/s network connections available to all independently of the site. If this is achieved, it is a significant step forward. Further implementation and funding for the development of a member of the head of state staff is being implemented into the revised telecommunication program of 2016-226. This has led to a significant improvement in the support of other services and to the fact that the cost of a specific procedure in the construction of a fiber - optic cable has resulted in only about 30% of the original schedule. It must be stressed to support projects that make the most of this possibility possible. The estimated total cost of linking a fiber - optic 3300 home with 99.9% of the nation's population is estimated to be some 5,200 million. K. That cost, however, did not all fall on government funds. Rather, it would result in cooperation with market members and others. It has to be said that, as we say, this project has come on almost a full swag, almost as we say. Farmers have taken over. Communications have taken over. So it's all looking for a better start. This half billion, now involved in this project, will be useful. Coalitions and partnerships. There's been a bit of a debate about being saluting some friends and family. A major factor is that at the beginning of 2016, the government has a body of members who are assigned to review various members of the organization and financial services to them, to cooperate with them, and to the interests of the economy. Good work is being done in the community by members of the various areas of the community that save the country a considerable amount of money. Special attention is given to members of the so - called third sector of well - being. The panel is attentioned to the bill presented by industrial and business secretary, which includes the overall legislation on the function of free partners and expects the greater part of its legislation to achieve significant progress in this field. If we continue to turn on: An increase is being made in the Minjaus Institute, and may I suggest that this highlights a tenth feature of the Committee for the Minjaus Institute, which has been neglected for the past few years. It's a danger to the coast. Is the Minja Office assigned to implement the priorities of this project. It's amazing in many parts of the country, where roads and old structures are just being washed out into the ocean and destroyed, and these monuments are not even being recorded. This is the focus we're sending in there. There's a lot of good stuff to do here, here's Power Institute. It's 10 billion. K. temporary contributions for one year to start technical work on a land base cutoff at the east side of the Rhine spine. According to the United Nations Sea rights Convention, coastal nations automatically have 200 sailors, which are also the outer edge of the economic law. However, many countries, including Iceland, are due to the natural circumstances of vast ocean bottom rights under the terms of the agreement. The project has been prepared to keep the east of the Rhine vertebrae, but this part of the spine was not in Iceland's original report since 2009. Icelandic energy research (ISOR) has done the scientific work and the technical part of the report. The total cost of the project is estimated to be about 35 million. K. There's a lot of energy issues here. Strengthens the build-up of electrical infrastructures. A temporary law of 67 billion is set. K. updating the budget for three years in the operation of electric cars in infrastructure, which is part of a climate application program. The three - year schedule is set up in connection with a 21 - year meeting of the EU climate Treaty in Paris, where a global agreement to reduce greenhouse gas emissions will be reached after 2030. This is one of the many tasks involved. The road structure is suggested by about 75 million. K. increase in contribution to support public transport in the country. A meeting that was made for a new arrangement that included the taking of public transport has led to an increase of more than 50% in the number of passengers in the country. It is a great pleasure to share in the service among the population, but because of a decline in oil reimbursement, the cost of operating has increased a quarter. The project is designed to offset the decline so that the basis for the operation can be met. There is also a suggestion of about 100 million. K. increase in contribution to support public transport in the capital area. Public transport contributions in the capital area have been reduced by 450 billion. K. to pay the price of an agreement on the growth of public transport and to provide support for the loss. This must be practical and beneficial for everyone. In the road industry, there is also a suggestion of 40 million. K. temporary contributions to strengthen the divinity of the Vikings in the Valley of Moriscos. Unfortunately, it's a little late. After that storm that came now, this park went very bad, and maybe we're a year late to bring it. We'd have done this better last year. But those sand baloneys, whom men call there at Viking, surely do what he's supposed to do, i.e. says the sea goes onto the land, destroys land. This park has been gathering sand and increasing it rather than the rest. I expect the next year to be improved and taken to another park that has been drawn in similar places. As I said, building wood is a big deal, and here comes porting. As most people should realize, the first link to using our sea resources is the fishing oceans. If we don't maintain the fishing, I don't know where we're going to make our country. It must be stated at the present time that the income for only European ports - which are traditional industrial seas, where these smaller and medium-sized boats are not exported and where exports are not available - do not depend on normal maintenance. That is why it has been neglected for many years. The rest of it suggests 400 million. K. a temporary contribution to the Redemption Fund for reimbursement on docks and depth in landing teams. The Passage Note note says, with permission of the President: Since 2008, construction has been done little, yet several docks have become hazardous because they have become poor enough to have a long range of supplies. Most often, these are steel pads with an initial partial thickness of 10 mm, but due to to to toes, there is an average thickness of 23/4 mm of palatability to a large surface. This means that the panels are full of holes in sections. This makes it possible that if they are under full stress or if exercise gets on the ground, e.g. Because of an earthquake, they're more likely to give up. Some of these docks are still in full use while others are in limited use, thus being divided into two categories depending on the importance of renewing them to the risk. Table 1 lists the docks considered hazardous and in use. And here's this list, by permission of the President. It's a Rifsa, a 180-mL steel deck that's gonna have to be replaced. Skaga Beach is then 1954, 120 m long. Siglusmur, the Bavours then 1958, 180 m; Akureyri, Torfunesbjörður 190 m. Coalition crew, Black Sculptors, 250 m long. Vindavík, Central Park 130 m. Sandede, South Coast 145 m. In each case, it takes two or three years to do the job, and the purchase takes about six months and accounts for about 25 to 30 percent of the cost. Steel sliding lasts 3 to 5 months; the end of the steel barrier is capable of operating at the end of it. Several more docks have arrived or are about to arrive in time than are listed in Table 1. And so did the construction of stone gardens in the '70s and '80s. Some of these have already been replaced in part. However, it is not considered to be an acute risk of they going away or being seriously damaged at this moment. Table 2 contains docks that are not worth the risk ratio as shown in Table 1. There we can read: Valley of Biludur, Bolungarvík, Hólmavík, sheep early in the year, Akureyri, and C.E. Nine quick treatments: There is a list of docks that can be immediately available on road transport assessments as well as other transport projects or that are known to be financially important to the ports. Here's a table over this hurrying operation. It's Rifsle, Sigludur, Akureyri, Grindavík, Curfjörður, Witchny, Ishjörður, Armouring, Sundjörður, and then the Maintenance Deeps of Stray, Sigurdur, and others. It is estimated that in the years to come, piers and gardens will have to be rebuilt for about 1.5 billion dollars. every year. That is why a billion countries are produced. While some of these docks may be closed, others need to be rebuilt with a deeper depth than currently and at a higher cost of construction. The accompanying list is not exhaustive, e.g. He is not listed by Helguvík. It is suggested that the road structure uses this additional production to speed up projects at its ports so that materials can be united and started in 2016 where possible. The need for a joint offer on a steel deck for these projects is emphasized. Additional funds are suggested as follows: Arctic Rebuilding at Rifsa Harbor, Snæfellsville: 37.2 million in addition to what was estimated at the Road Building or a total of 100 million. Monavour pad in Isafjörg: 22 million U.S.A., Dalau, New York, U.S.A.: 15 million Rebuilding and enlargement of the Black Sea's Black Sculpture: 41 million in addition to what was estimated from the road to its original figure of 212 million. Building Middle-earth in Grindavit: 47 million and deepening at Middle-earth: 56 million Renewing South Coven: 44.3 million Number 7 is a deepening of the freshing grounds of the Green Creek: 14.5 million. The construction of a hedge and a flotation base of the North Sea small boats: 8.4 million This too is an additional donation. Number 9 is the construction of a hedge and a floater's nest and the renewal of steel iron irons at Hólmmevik: 7.5 million. Number 10: Renewing Hafnarfjord on Sigluvær: 80 million National harboring, reinforcing a seaship: 24 million. Early research outside the Hornground: 3 million This is an additional donation. As a memo from Vega's making notes, the estimated need for money for the next few years to get these steel decks and these harbors out of immediate danger - we are adding 400 million to the 212 million, which is 612 million. It says that we need to do more. We need to improve the quality of these harbors. So I wondered, " Can the road be a deal with these harbors? ' It tells itself that these numbers may not match entirely with a particular to-do. I wondered whether the road will be able to negotiate with that particular community or that person's refusal to perform this maintenance, or to complete it over the three years, as we do in this respect, so that these works will be considered as one unit, and the rejections will contribute their share of the cake and the Decades of their share, whether the exchange is the same in this year or not. I don't know exactly how it is compatible with law and order, but it would be most desirable to have it completed in three years. Although the harbors would pay more of those jobs in the first part, they would recover in the three years. At any rate, it is showing a color by adding respect and respect to these mollusks, all of which depend on these harbors. There are more infrastructures, such as airports. There are 400 million temporary contributions to meet the cumulative need to build up airports in the country and international airports. So we can count here for a long time. Hospital - totaled 840 million. K. budget for the next three years because of the initiative to shorten the waiting list for the lens surgery and knee-joint surgery, hip prosthetic surgery and PCI. As noted in other committees, there is a proposal of some 280 million. K. temporary financial permission to address the costs of study treatment projects for hepatitis C. The campaign will last for three years, and the government has agreed to suggest a dose of 280 billion. K. for 2015 and 2016 and 150 million. K. In 2017. All of this is based on the efforts of capable and thoughtful doctors. A group of doctors at the National Hospital has taken the lead in bringing in a campaign project and has been represented by the health secretary to prepare a contract with the Gilead Sciences company. Along with this work, a broad group of professionals, as well as the Ministry, Disease Controllers, U.S.A., and others have been working on the various preparations of the campaign. That's a hell of a move. There is no time to read all the good things that are now ending quickly. There's one thing I have to say. Temporarily 10 billion. K. the three - year budget for the work The National Guide of the European Sea on Emissions, part of a climate - related strategy, is uplifted by a three - year budget. We know that the fishing industry plays a significant role in the release of large amounts of carbon but, fortunately, it has done well in the fishing industry and has not been punched down by high fishing costs, so it has been able to renew its fishing vessels, resulting in the use of new machines and new technologies spending my machines so that carbon emissions are much less in the latest ships. This can remember much of the tugs that spend most oil. They're talking about up to 30% lower oil consumption and the more favorable vessels.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u197	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I'd like to ask him about his settlements. A number of government - based proposals and more parts of it turn to rural areas. We surely share the importance of strengthening our country's settlements. But I think it's a very random and odd arrangement in many places. I want to ask you why. Senator: Why did the government cut down the national parish program that we can talk about as a built-up plan? There is a program of work that brings great pleasure, which includes money and sharing it and setting priorities at home according to a specific procedure. What I don't understand is, why is money just not put in the national parish program as the previous government had planned? Is that not a better way than for more of the items to be set aside, a little like the right, to do some special work?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u198	A respectable president. Yeah, that's right - I don't want to agree that it's just the left. But if we can give it to the right and left, I don't see what's wrong with it. [[Up front.]] However, the committee received 42 rural communities and skunks. The members of the Governing Body must form an opinion of this matter and take the authority to share it with others. Of course, it's more convenient to put it in just some device that disseminates it, but people are willing to take responsibility for it and put it out according to these reviews. All I can say is that men are being conscientious about the comments and visits that humans receive.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u199	A respectable president. There was a reason why humans changed the process; it did not seem to be a professional practice that individual senators were taking over. This is not a matter of merely edifices. There are also a lot of free organizations and also cultural activities to share money. Today, for example, the budget bill covers each Ministry Committee called a binding contract and is talking about how the Ministry's Office should make binding contracts when they leave money on a project to some year's end. I must ask myself, " How can things be guaranteed when this is the case with a financial committee? ' There are no contracts behind it. It's just temporary funding, maybe a year. I'd much rather this thing go through the Ministry, that the types of contracts are contracts. We are then to monitor the demands and to observe that there is an equal situation. But now there are no commitment agreements. It's just temporary financial contributions; a little right like that, maybe after a while.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u200	A respectable president. Yes, it was in the sense of being changed for the better. On page 18. 10 In the opinion of the committee, it says - just like that. A senator is pointing to: The 2016 Council Board of Parliamentary Committee, which has the responsibility of visiting a variety of members and financial organisations, cooperated, and practicalities, feels strongly that the government is responsible for the first - century governing body. Nevertheless, the more part offers suggestions for the individual resources in museum teams. It should be noted that many of the sponsors of each year often remain substantial and may even be dropped by year. In this way all small allowances may be considered to be contained within existing budgets, and much more will take into account in the future. It hasn't been coming out so well. They're establishing members of the committee who have not been happy with the welcome they've been receiving from the officials. Therefore, we suggest that this matter be considered.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u201	Madam President. Among other things, I could ask, " Should it matter who is happy and who is not happy? ' Should those who do not agree to consult with members of the Parliament who have access to members of a financial committee? Is that the job? I was amazed to learn that on page 22 of the chapter entitled Annuity of the greater portion, the figure of 0.2 million shows no change. K. can be brought to Thorberg's house. It's okay. Then there is another, 02-999, with a suggestion of 59 million. K. temporary contributions to various sources. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, since this is 59 million. K. " What's behind her? It's special that funding is broken to 0.2 billion. K. 59 million uninterrupted. I ask the senator if he has seen the dislocation that is behind them and if he feels that the bill is presented in this way, since there is such a big joint and there is no dislocation, at least not as I have seen. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking if he can get me this dislocation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u202	A respectable president. If we're assigned to special teams, it's impossible, and if we let the Ministry pass, it's also impossible. [[Up front.]] I can't quite figure out how to win this thing. We feel that the third sector, as we have seen, is not properly cared for in the scheme. That's why we're pulling in and suggesting that this be over. We saw at a fundraiser this morning that there's money falling down dead and moving between years that haven't been used, just on these types of joints. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] Surely we would agree to have these matters examined.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u203	Madam President. It's not about taking a look. It's disassembled to 0.2 billion. K. The amount is 59 million completely unscrupulous, and we don't know where to go. Sounds like it's coming. A senator does not know either. It was observed earlier that, as they say, there is a sharing of money all over the ground. I ask the senator why certain privileges are chosen in excess of others. Doesn't he think that worth-importing taxes should be dropped, because he referred to a local society meeting that has repeatedly asked for it? That's 75 million here. K. to strengthen public transportation in the region, and we know that this is not enough to correct the entire angle of the country. I'd like to ask you, too. A senator for the docks. The government puts 200 million on docks. The majority contributes to another 400 million. There's no plan. There is no transport plan to support this or a rejection plan to support this. [[The president calls.]] Who decides that this is the highest priority? Is there more of the budget to do that than the Minister of the Interior?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u204	A respectable president. No Stimulating Transport Program? We know that, but she existed. She was smart here. [[Up front.]] Transportation plan was ready to be taken care of last spring. It was the government scene that made it out of the table.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u205	...it was submitted until the last day of the council...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u206	She was put in. The committee had been overrun. So it was just the council... [[A respectable president. You can't talk like that...]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u207	Sólrún in the conference hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u208	It was the lesser part that prevented the development of a transport program, which had been prepared from a committee but was not allowed to cross the government position, estimated that in 2016 the year was about five thousand and fifty-540 million. K. In ports, in Re backservation Fund. [[What the fuck is this? Senator?]] This arrangement and financial resources at Refundment Fund are very close to being in line with the environmental policy that did not go through.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u209	Which doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u210	President. I worked in a town government for a long time in a small village north of the country with progressive men who loved them very much. It was good to work with them, and they were worthy of trust. You can always rely on them. I felt a pain in the politics for them to listen to what they had to say. A senator before trying to defend his stand on leaving disability in the future by exorbitant the percentages and billions of dollars on the top and the percentages and basically saying that they had just received enough bullshit. They wouldn't need any more of those cripples. I'd like to ask you what. A senator. Is this why he refused to let the poor and the elderly last night in a vote for their recoveries? Is this why there have been a series of judicial talks and contracts in the council to confirm that in recent years, there have been a series of treatments for the elderly and the desperate in recent years? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u211	A respectable president. I had to offer the arguments I used with myself when I was at that vote and said no. Hv. A senator stood here earlier today and was shocked by the fact that men were taking sides and had no numbers behind it, and more members of the council came here in a pita and were very careful that we had no numbers. Here I was trying to back up the improvement that comes on January 1, this recovery would have been calculated. It would have been calculated into that number and the compensation for a single man with chores, that after years, she would be higher than the minimum wage of 245. K.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u212	President. How could anyone think of this as the basis for rejecting the elderly and the microloins of recovery, as in other employees? How could anyone even imagine that the last few years had turned out to be so great? A senator is saying, as a matter of fact, confirmed that they had had enough? They'd have had enough. In the United States, the older people and the poor have had enough, in the opinion of the Agency and the senators. That's all they get. That's all they need. There's been enough billions and percent spilling into their mouths. That's what I'm talking about. A senator was saying. [[Up front.]] I would have believed this with some independents, but that the advance should come up here in a speech chair, representing the Future Party, the Old Farmer Party, the Socialism Party, and put it into microns and the elderly, that they've just got enough fucking enough and don't get any more, that's the forward party to shame, and those who have such a reputation. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[Take up the front: Hear, hear]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u213	A respectable president. They can come down here and strike down a knight and strike on the table and try to make my words their own. Those were words. A senator and his language, as famous as he already is, this whale. Senator. What I'm saying, my argument -- I'm not saying that a given group is too happy of these benefits, but when the compensation is higher than the minimum wage, I could accept that... [[Up front.]] The numbers speak for themselves. [[Up front.]] When the cost is higher than the minimum wage, I'd say - let's start to increase the lowest wage. [[Take it up: That's enough.]] [[Up front.]] Let's raise the lowest wage before we make the benefits.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u214	You could have had a meeting with us today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u216	Madam President. Yes, it's about the Northeast standard. Even if it's a serious matter, I'm going to stay calm. I'd like to direct a question to the question. Councilman: Since May 1 of this year, the rate of fishing has been reduced to a level similar to that of the elderly and the desperate. Got it. A senator's regard for the government's priorities is to turn down a fishing fee on the large structure? I will not take it as an answer that it dropped in the smaller and medium-sized outputs because the largest of these types had massive reductions and no need for it, as shown by all profits. In effect, though, we are talking about the same amount of money that the elderly and the poor need from May 1 to be equal to other employees in this country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u217	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the question. It's just not that the rate of hunting has been reduced by 61⁄27 billion. In 2014, 8.1 billion were reported as 9.7 billion, 9.8 billion in 2012, 8.1 billion in 2014, and 8.8 billion in income taxation. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u218	Don't get back together...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u219	6 billion dollars in insurance. [[Up front.]] We can count for a long time. But the hunting fees, I think we agree on that, me and what. A senator, that we can raise the fishing costs of the largest companies, but the SMEs cannot tolerate more than the increase. But we cannot speak in the same talk about raising the fishing costs and also using fishing grounds to build up the country or to support the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u220	Madam President. This sums up the priorities of this right government in behalf of more people, and they left behind as few as they have. Sadly, that is the reality. I'd like to ask you what. A senator into the interest of banks. The plans for the last two years have always been too low. Last year, banks had a budget of about 6 billion and went to 26 billion. Now the next year's plan is about 7 billion. Why is such a discrepancy to this point, which, of course, should flow to the building up and good materials, such as the welfare system and other factors? About the airport, I'd like to ask you a question. A senator. Today, a turnaround of 400 million was made for airports, flying history services, and maintenance of airports. But the budget bill reduces by 516 million in actuality from budgets of the current year. [[The president calls.]] Is it not merely making up for the things that have been cut off? Looks that way. And not that, for 100 million are missing. Is this something to hammer?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u221	A respectable president. Well, there's a government now, and there's a council here. I would've thought what. A senator should be pleased if the council makes up for something that the government is trying to reduce, so much infrastructure. [[Up front.]] So I would have thought she was now to be happy that we only try to scratch the tray. I mean, it's just a plan, and the money's coming whether it's on or not. [[Up front.]] So there is no loss of money. [[Up front.]] We agree on that, it's a very careful estimate. [[Upwards: Very careful.]] Very careful. We progressives are very careful men, and we want to be careful, and then only if it does. [[The president calls.]] It's not going anywhere. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u222	V.E.G. President. For many reasons, discussions about budgeting are very important. First of all, the budget of each government is a form of its declaration of policy. It highlights priorities and the emphasis the government wants. I have found this discussion interesting and has improved as time passes, and people begin to focus on individual institutions and the individual forces of the budget. I'm thinking about what will happen after we agree, which is all evidence that the council makes a new bill of public finance before the council and is waiting to make a final pay. There are a lot fewer people who are critical of that bill than I had planned, I am very, and I think my criticism is reflected in the discussion of the budget as it has been appearing. It said, this morning, I think it was, from the General's side, that he felt that he was going too much into the whole foreign business, and he said: "It's all for the better part of the next year, because then we're going to go through the bigger lines and decide on where to go, how much to go in the health and education, and then on the foreign affairs. He felt this way, and he feels that many members of the Parliament are a major step in progress. I have certain doubts about it because I believe that this is the turn of the umbilical cord that we see between the council and the nation, the institutions of the community and the nation. It's a financial bill that changes in the way the council treats. I think it's the right thing to do. Of course, we would like a professional job in the opening up of a budget bill. But never can a financial bill be so good that it should not be changed when a community view comes along. I want to give you an example of a change that's going on, not a big, big change. She's turning to the University of Innunciation, Iceland's Landing University. Why is he my concern? That's because the school issue came on our board, sitting on the Council Board and Control Committee. As with other institutions, government reviews will report such schools and their financial needs. The report is due to the administration and monitoring committees and to the committees representing the State Reconnaissance, the recruitment of the schools, which are the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Professional Affairs, and the representatives of the school. It turns out that the school is getting under the authority he is looking for from a council, but it turns out that a pot is broken otherwise because while school is getting into the right direction of an excel document, he is no longer fulfilling the duties expected by the community. What happens then? The Parliament considers the matter, so it aims to correct and know how to deal with the budget, providing an adjustment from the budget to make more contribution to this institution. I take this as an example of a living discussion that I think is better and more fruitful in the arrangement that we now have on the budget than I think will be after the government legal action. This is an example of what I believe is of the good. Another example I think is that I need to mention, which is not as good as it is of the office of the emissary of the Generals. It cut down 13 million. K. and the reason has been given that the U.S. agent has entered a less expensive facility. He has been in an expensive rented house, but he is now at the council's premises, and that is why the office can be cut off. It is now that there is a convergence on the administration and monitoring committee to promote certain to-dos of this fundamental office in our democratic society. There are many preemptive activities, we can call, premeditated by the official's office for observation, and it has been shown that it has generally communicated to the general government in general that has benefited. We've missed the Council Board of Directors and Commission that the office can't perform this role as it should. That's why the government has suggested that we become General's emissary to give 15 million. K. In addition to the office. I would like to give this particular consideration to this discussion, as it involves the committee that I give leadership at the council. In this discussion, one factor has been specifically confined, and this is a matter of disability and the elderly. Especially do they look to those who have the lowest value there, those in Iceland who are most difficult to provide, especially the elderly, who do not have their own housing and who have to go to a great deal of medical care. I don't think we should ever stop reminding in this room that the research done, including By Iceland's Cancer Association and the Social Science Agency of the University of Iceland, it has been shown that the most efficient groups and particularly of these groups, from the elderly and the desperate, do not hold back from seeking expensive medical care. At the same time, these same research have shown that now a fifth of the expenses for health care are due to the worst issue. Then there is a justice issue that will allow these smaller groups to live under the same arrangement as in the country's paying conditions for employment rights. Hence, a proposal was made on the side of the government at the expense that we gave 6.5 billion dollars. In retrospective improvements, in the middle of this year, for these groups. Then there is the government situation with adjustments that assume that these groups will achieve comparable increases to paid people in the coming year. I think there's a reason to stop this part specifically because it's a matter of justice. For those who give less for righteousness than more for profit, this is very sensible; this is a reasonable economic arrangement. The equal society, or equation, in society results in a much more healthy economy than does it become in an indiscriminate society. The increase in the level of subsidies within the country exceeds the rate of failure, simply because the underpayers buy newspapers, books, and maybe go to the movies and theaters, want to take part in life, but the high-priority workers and those at the top of the trolls are likely to take their money out, buy expensive cars, go to expensive giants, and so on the streets. So equal measures benefit the economy. I'd like to talk to you about the State Radio. I haven't always been happy with the State Radio even though I feel very warm about it, and I guess it applies to all of us that sometimes we're happy, and sometimes we don't like each other. However, the State Radio plays a very important role in our community. There's a certain democracy mail, we can call it, and we also have a cultural function. That is why we need to protect it. Many people have been speaking about the issue of advertising. Would I be there? No, I wouldn't. Would I consider it a more fun radio to do without advertising and be better for the other market media? Yeah, definitely. But we must never forget that we are only 330,000, and we cannot compare ourselves with the BBC or the big national radio station abroad. If we're going to give away our advertising revenues, we're either gonna have to cut down heavily on the Agency or raise a significant amount of pay on it, and you don't hear that there's any particular staging about doing that. This is the reality we must look to. On the other hand, I am available to set some more strict rules on advertising in the State Radio and try, for example. To avoid any advantage to a program that has been a bad custom for far too long. I would like to appeal to the government section to show fairness in budgets to the RUS. And what do I mean, fair? It seems now to whom it is, but I look at what I think is a general attitude in the community. I think the public in Iceland, that the people in general want to be comfortable with the State Radio. I'm well pleased with other media too, but I believe that there's a central area, a type of fixture in the media that we're supposed to protect and encourage the administrative part to accept additional contributions to State Radio. I've also spoken of strengthening the police, which means the law of the country. In the wake of the collapse, there was a dramatic decline, and we must not forget that the cut-off in general business to a variety of key institutions in our society took place between 20 and 25% in real value. This was true of law enforcement, and it meant that a contribution to it was dropped on a yearly basis by less than 3 billion, less than 3 percent. A million. K. and, of course, it hit her hard. Toward the end of the season, when the sun rose, we agreed at this hall that we would do all we could to promote the procreation of the law - enforcement force. I look until the whole of the country, to Reykjavík and the urban area, as well as to the scattered, because in many lands police have been made to travel a long distance and sometimes on their own, alone to carry out difficult tasks when there is much more to be done. This is what we have to do, and we're supposed to look at what we agreed to, I think it was in April 2013 that we were going to deal with the general law enforcement budget. I realize that it's not a single step, but we need to take more specific steps than we do now. This government is not particularly environmentally friendly, but it is environmentally friendly in that it has reused a contribution made during its last terms to its advantage when it strikes up to 500 million. K. extra cash has been put to the police. The fact is, in part, 200 million. K. had entered the last term, of course, as a payment but kept in mind, and then came 300 million. K. Then some additional money is being put in, but it is not enough because the law - enforcement work is fundamental, and getting good people to work in the police department is of enormous importance. We have a lot of good police officers, but we need to improve the police work environment and we're supposed to strengthen that role, not get a weak police gun. That's a tricky way. In fact, it has been observed, and I find it enjoyable to discuss these last few days that governments do not want to use the police to the full extent that they have been, and that's a good thing. I think it's very important that we establish our agreement at the council, and I think that after a discussion that happened the other day, the situation was clarified, and that's fine. But it's after we get together to improve the interests of the police. There are many ways of carrying it down. However, there is something specific that I would like to mention, and it turns toward road and transportation. I think we've gone too far in recent years to focus on major projects. There are tunnels and major projects that have been involved when we should have made the relative financial contribution to the road and general public service of the road system. Our roads criticized us during the last term for not going along that way but because of too much effort, I think that criticism was in many respects correct. There is something else that we need to consider when it comes to the road. Now it is that most of her projects are offered out. There are contractors involved. I do not, in effect, criticize it. However, there must be a core, nuclear knowledge, nuclear groups with knowledge and experience that can easily be lost in the fallen world of workers. I take, for example, that when the MiG took the bridge just east of the east in the summer of 2011, the Road Building built a new temporary bridge in one week. It took her one week. This would not have happened anywhere else because there is no greater knowledge in trade than in Iceland and that knowledge is available in Vega. There have been two specialized groups in such projects; one has been located in the Vikings and the other in the Hampstan. It was close to the fact that these groups had been sent away, all exposed to the greatest hardships of the Roadmaker's making, when the funds were directed unreservedly, but less likely to see the inner strength of the road itself. I would like to call the Senate's attention to the fact that this is an aspect that we need to consider. We need to watch this. I can't stop discussing budget programs without getting involved with the health issues that I feel have always been found to be the case. I was chairman of the BSRB in the 1920's, over 20 years, and I have often reported that when I considered what was most important in the struggle, whether it was the salary or the welfare system, or any other factor, I always mentioned the medical service, that men had access to the conditional health care system. That's what matters when something goes wrong with us in life. I think we're already agreed on this. There is no one here who feels differently about this. We do, however, know the best way to plan. And I'm very critical of the tendency that I feel now to be careful with the present government. I have severely critically criticized the advance party for not keeping ties to the Independence Party, which is extremely dangerous for health matters and market addictions that the pack has to the most dangerous extent. I think we're about to witness this right now, not necessarily that everything is an exasperated document, but leading one by one. Then things happen in such a way as to cut down, the health - care facilities are reduced in order to carry out their ministry, and then the channel is opened to experts at the market, and they take up their assignments. That's what happens. Today I discussed a case of public health care and of Domus Medical. I know it's always fragile when committees are some institutions or companies that are then taken up by men, thinking that you're finding the Agency all the way to the ground, but that's not what I'm doing, I'm talking about the arrangement in general. When patients were sent to visit the Lands Hospital, up to Landakoti for a long time, contributions to the operation were so limited that the Agency could not handle this. The waits started and she couldn't take care of it. Then the patient was sent up to Domus Medical. With it, money went. The money then gradually accumulated, making it possible for humans in Domus to buy predators, far more expensive and perfect than what the hospitals could buy. What happened there was that the money, that thought to the money of a patient which I see, of course, may in some cases have certain advantages, I can see it, began to control the course. When the case is taken up, there is a greater problem because money begins to take control, control, and control of the market. [[For example, consider: It's the patient who controls it.]] Yes, it's the patient who controls, but so I take an example of myself, a patient who was sent to an x-ray and found it difficult for me to resist being sent up to Domus and to tell the doctor that he was not only making a health decision but that I wanted to go there. It would have been written in the ledger to remind them next time. In the end, I can't control it because it's cut down into the system so much that it can't handle it. It is not that simple that the patient is determined to do so. Not at all. This depends on the circumstances, depending on the ability of the institutions to carry out their ministry and to respond to demand. Then there are some factors to be considered specifically, e.g. the rural area. There are few who want to calm down there, and experience from abroad has shown that in poor communities, this is a challenge more difficult than in rich towns or rural areas. This is the thing that we need to consider and discuss and go over thoroughly. It should not be possible to happen, as we read on the front page of the News News magazine today, that the main source of opinion on the decision of health care in Reykjavík to go on a market inducer course was who? That was the head of the Contestant Board. It wasn't a surgeon, it was the director of the Contestance Board because it was supposed to be this way, then this story was understood and understood by this party's declaration a year ago when he was selected as director of the health care department. The same could be understood at the highest. Last week, a health minister on television when he arranged for the nation to see that this was just what woke him up. He would be ready to adopt the matter at a council if someone would consider discussing it with him there. I've declared it that I'm more than ready to do it and I think it's very important to do it. Those who have the conviction that they have a good cause can hardly fear such a discussion. It's only about Land Hospital. In the same way that social security expenditures are viewed in the form of contributions for the elderly and the poor alike, they often look to him for support and help to support development of the environment. The land hospital does not live in an unchanging environment. It takes constant changes. Thus, the number of people served by the hospital grows constantly. I've seen the figures, like, 1.5 to 2% a year. And what does that mean? That means if you move it into a dollar and a buck about 800 million. K. or less than a billion each year, as I'm told. Now, I'm no specialist in the financial affairs of the hospital, I have to be well acquainted with these studies in order to talk about them with some precision, but, of course, we listen to parties such as mentioned in the News of the Kingdom News today, where a news report or article published in the morning newspaper from the professor's Chief of Professors, I believe that it was promised, where he said that 3 billion people in need to hold the Land Hospital in order to keep the business in an open mind. I think we need to look into this and not let it happen to us who happened with the University of Innunna to be watched only by the excel, not the duties laid on the Agency. I could tell at the beginning that there is effort in the bill now on the part of the Gaming Committee to fix it, and it's good, I'm glad. But we should do the same with other institutions, where we feel that there is evidence that more money is needed. I recall that in the post-mortem cut, which was very high, and also in the health - care field, there was a drop in the Land Hospital by 500 standards. It's not a small thing. Of course, in large institutions, there is a rise, reorganization, etc., but it was much more than that. I'm aware of this, and I know it only very well from close association, that in a ward of specialized medicine, there should be four active doctors last month only one active person. I know a doctor who asks himself: " How long will I last? We're supposed to listen to things like this, and we're supposed to look to what happens, for example. Now in connection with this sad situation, this court case, a court case that was being smelled today, a good sound in a positive tone, I think, is very happy about it. All are considering their responsibilities, and do we not need to do the same? We need to do the same. We need to ask if there may be a systematic problem in the hospital that results from a lack of funds. We need to examine it, and we need to ask ourselves seriously such questions. So I come back to the beginning of my case, I think the debate that is developing now is good, very good, especially when people begin to take up individual organizations, individual activities. This is what I fear will be lost when we have entered the new arrangement where we put it at an early stage discussing the big lines, how much to go in education, health, foreign affairs, and never put the focus on the small things. Since my talk is about to begin soon, I want to respond to one aspect that many would consider very small, but I don't feel that it is, and it turns to older people in high school. It was a policy to put these people out of their shoes and to point them into a different channel, and they certainly have many people in a private market, a wide range of schools and courses, and a re-education, and so on the streets, but there are groups that went out of the school system and have wanted to get back into it. This may have been one of the biggest revolutions in the 1970's when social views were corrosive in the community. One of the events at that time was that the system was open in various fields, including In the schools and colleges. At that time, congregations of elders called in some places where people in their 30's, even over 25 years of age, were reassigned to school. This was a political decision to dismiss these people, saying: "We have limited financial resources, and we need to set priorities for younger ones, those entitled to go to school. But is that the course of wisdom? Could it not be that we should let more money slip into this school instead of turning these people into predators of private solutions? I think so. I think we're taking steps back, but not forward, and I'm allowing myself to encourage both the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Education to revise their policy in this respect and to follow the Parliament's budget to do the same. I didn't mean to believe it when it originally came up that people put emphasis on getting older people out of school, but this is a reality that we need to revise. This discussion has been widely covered by revenues to finance the changes we make in our government situation. Then I return to say that we are talking about 5 billion for disability and the elderly to pass their share next year. We are talking about 3 billion to the Land Hospital, which would respond to the call made by the hospital officials who claim that they need that money to keep the hospital working properly. We add additional funds to the road structure, both for maintenance and for the implementation of 1.4 billion, I think it is, and we want to protect the State Radio. Not all of us have proposed a change, nor do I mention the police in particular, but I refer to the solidarity formed at the council that was rumored here at the end of the last term. I said again to that discussion I always said: Yes, let's get into this fight goal, but let's watch this may take some time, we need to take these steps systematically. It's not being done, it's not. We should plan a progressive contribution to law enforcement, where the goal was to achieve first the right angle that followed the collapse of less than 3 billion years. and then better because we have to live with good law enforcement in the country, we need good people, we need well - educated police officers. Of course, there are many who do work, but we need to care much more for law enforcement in this country than we've been doing for some time. There I am not accusing this government of any major crime in that regard. I'm looking at an evolution that was especially the result of the collapse in that area, like so many others, where we need to take our hands off and handle things right. I will not give up in supporting such practical suggestions from the top of the board of directors.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u223	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The count of Jónasson's son for his speech. It was extensive and good, and most of all I agree with the senator in what he went over, mostly not everything. He spoke of health care and the hospital and that some in the hospital still need money for business. I remind you that there was an agreement here to put 30 million into the budget to make a joint assessment and an opinion of the hospital, which is a cause for joy. I just want to ask the senator about this, because he spoke of 500 members in the hospital having lost their jobs in the last term or after the collapse, and the senator was a health minister in a new government after the election of 2009: Can you do that? In a few words, a senator considered what assignments he was facing when the cutting requirements were performed that this government has been improving? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u224	V.E.G. President. In our priorities for hospitals and health care, we put one thing first, and that was the cost of medicine. We changed the regulations and regulations involved in the pharmaceutical matter. I wish I had those numbers in front of me, but there was some significant benefit that we had made of a new arrangement without any patient involvement. It contains the natural numbers and the same is true now when we are receiving this contract with a foreign pharmaceutical company for massive deletion at the expense of hepatitis C medicinal products, which I consider to be a historical event. I was surprised at how the media minimized those factors when it was reported, for these are enormous interests on the natural world scene regardless of decisions made in this hall. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u225	A respectable president. It's hard to give a good answer when there's so little time. I wish. A senator is happy to celebrate the contract for hepatitis C. I don't think I've heard any government senator say he's happy about it. I agree with the senator and have pointed out that the media do not take much interest in this agreement. The big issue about the medicinal products is to change the public shopping law so that we can be in a boat with the other northern nations buying medication, so that it is said here. But I'm interested in knowing one thing and hoping that the senator can answer that question. The hospital went down by 20% during the last term. It was concluded with the Land Hospital that if it remained within a set budget for three years, it would be lost, as it was, from the first year on. What were the priorities of the earlier government for the cutting down of the Land Hospital, which this government is now improving?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u226	V.E.G. President. When a deal about hepatitis C was made, I wrote on my website a fistula under the title Congratulations to Iceland because it's something we all get. There's a huge benefit to the natural population that's being maintained on this disease, you see, it's a big deal. But a lot of money comes in, of course, it's good that the Ministry of Health and the Supreme Ministry. Health Minister has joined this contract, but this is regardless of the general budget. I have to say, we are now to look to the fact that there is a limit of 3 billion, in view of the most skilled experts in the Land Hospital I believe, so that the hospital can be maintained properly. No matter what happened before, after the greatest financial collapse of Iceland and the disaster that happened to us then, the reality is that we're on our way up, we're returning the rest of the money and we're supposed to make more money to the Hospital, this fixture in the Icelandic medical system. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u227	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I've been studying and giving a lot of thought to the arts involved in museums and other things, and I thought it was a very good step to be taken during their last term when they were moved to the Ministry and even into such a fund system where organizations and people were applying for it. I don't think it's good to be taking these teams back into the budget and that the council -- we can quite put it into words so that the council may be involved, but it really just six people. I see why. A member of the council feels that such matters, some individual organization, and so forth, are good. But I'd like more explanation because I think that's why. A senator would like to have a professional practice. How does he feel that we should do this? Was it not the right step during the last term to transfer this into the Ministry?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u228	V.E.G. President. Yes, there are benefits and defects in all systems. There are also active people, individuals, and so are those in this situation. The difference is that what happens here is everything openly open. There is a general discussion, and that is what counts. I'm a follower of professional practices. For example, I find that funding goes to the Slurpee Fund of rural society, where local societies then come to disintegration and set rules for themselves. I'm on it. But most of all, I want open discussion and open practice. I fear that if all the decisions are made under the so - called professional umbrella of the advisers, it will drift away from the media and thus drift away from the nation. That's what I'm worried about.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u229	A respectable president. I can, in some ways, take it for granted. A senator will then be concerned about how to connect with the Ministry, of course, there are also people, but it is that we are to monitor the problems of counsel, and all their activities are valid for future administrative procedures. But otherwise. We have been critical of what it is like to distribute money to rural areas. I've been very fond of national parishion Plans, in the work being done there. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agreed with me that it would have been much happier to put large sums of money into the national parish program and leave the local people after setting priorities and sharing money instead of in some case being the northwestern committee to make decisions, I don't know what it was like to do, and then it's also being put on the market? At least I haven't seen the logic to support it, so I consider it a little random.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u230	V.E.G. President. I reiterate my general view that I am accompanied by the sharing of funds into a professional fair course, which includes the transport program that we will discuss at a council in which we take a few factors to consider. What I'm simply saying is that if we make all the decisions so far, we've been taken here slowly and we're moving it into the Ministry, we're moving this far away from the council. Then, when it comes to building some professionally so-called committee with discriminators to monitor the council for certain that we are about to be made that we must take only this high percentage of loans, etc., we have come out in very high ways. I'm surprised the Council is going to accept that law. [[The president calls.]] I'm surprised.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u231	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir The 100 - year - old son of Jónasson for a very good speech, I say a good speech because it is the basis for further reasoning. In this, I allow myself to say a short answer, I can't come in on all the things I would have wanted to ask why. A senator around, but the first throw was damp. A senator who is also president of the court. The management and monitoring committee, a committee with any special status, a process that has to face the University of Agriculture and how to get it a professional way to the council and the legal committee and how it comes into the budget. Hv. A senator was concerned that such things would not be possible to become a legal law on public financial matters. Well, maybe. A senator explains more clearly how this cannot happen?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u232	V.E.G. President. What I'm concerned about is that the emphasis is primarily on the money side. You see, there are two kinds of laws that must be looked upon by the General Assembly and by the Member States. Another involves the money as such and the rest of the responsibilities we have placed on our shoulders with various laws on the rights of patients, the rights of health care professionals, etc. That's my head review on it. I mean, about the other show as big as yours. A senator raises the issue, whether the public financial law prevents a process of the kind that I traced to the Hawkon University and to the College of Agriculture - no, I'm not gonna say anything about it, and I'm sure we're going to find ways in the future to develop it. On the other hand, I think that the fact that we're putting ourselves on government financial laws that are tailored to the International Bank is not a suitable cover for the development process. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u233	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. Since I'm overall at peace with this government bill, most of it is about increasing discipline and better planning, I'm sure that I will keep this example in mind. I think it's a very good example. A senator whom he mentioned about the professional process and the speciality. The management and monitoring committee has to deal with the reports of the National Re-evaluation and how this discussion can continue in the professional process. Here, in the second instance, an answer, because I know that it is. For example, in the case of so - called privatization in the health system, I would like to ask myself, " Where do I find the boundaries? ' Is it within the framework of the question? A senator is referring to the privatization of the health - care system? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u234	V.E.G. President. What I believe is that in these programs, health clinics, such as health care centers, competition is a first - level alone competition. When the company is originally invited out, there will be some competition for who is expected to be the most appropriate host. And then time goes by. The license, if I predict, will never be taken from the team that will exist. The competition will move to phase two. It's about to compete for the patients. Now we hear from the health care department in Reykjavík that it is time to take the step of having the clinic compete for patients. Each comment is made on the front page of the newsletter today other than the director of the Contestant Board, not by the surgeon, but by the director of the Contestant Board, speaks of exciting motivations, benefits that are forming in the health service. [[The president calls.]] Can't people see what's happening?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u235	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The count of Jónasson's son for a very good speech. I agree with most of the things he said, not quite everything, but it comes as no surprise to me that I agree with him because I know that Ögmundur is deep down, although he is uncomfortable to the left often in unique matters. It is as if it can be forgiven. What I would like to ask him about, and he came in is the operation of the Kingdom News. He warned of a cutout there and of the fact that RUSB would go out of a commercial market. I agree with that, and I've declared that it should not be cut too much down at the RUS, but it can certainly be manipulated there considerably. That's why I'd like to take advantage of this opportunity and ask why. paritaprevir Do you think that Jónasson's son might not feel the same way? That he may be manipulated in the RUSH business. Alternatively, e.g. Not selling Channel 2? [[The president calls.]] What about giving in to TV entertainment and maintaining culture? [[The president calls.]] And most importantly, whether he believes that the change in the government to the official community has been successful. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u236	V.E.G. President. That change did not succeed. It was a very mistaken step that we spoke many against for a long time in this room. In fact, we were able to set the bill substantially from what originally appeared, but it was very defective. Experience has shown that this was a bad path. With regard to Channel 2 sales, we have to look for advertising revenues to run into the whole agency. If we take this source of income from the Public Radio, there is a choice of cutting down or raising the payoffs. Is the second likely to be done? No. We must look at this whole thing and try to preserve the resources of income this institution has. [[The president calls.]] Whether to change the emphasis on entertainment on the state television - I agree. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u237	A respectable president. It would be nice to continue this discussion. However, there is another matter that I would like to discuss with you. A senator about. It is health issues that he placed in detail. Today, contributions to Hospitals in the 2016 budget have increased by 30% from 2013's budgets, by 34.6% to the medical facility by 27.2%, and to the aging institutions by 25%, i.e. in three years. We know that the health system sucks big money. We all want good health. We prefer to have it so that we don't have to pay for it as users or patients. The question, however, is, What do we as a small nation have to do with putting much of the cookie we have divided into this system? We know that we face problems similar to those of other nations in this regard. [[The president calls.]] We can't put on the system forever. Surely, then, we need to consider how we see this system in 10 years and 15 years. [[The president calls.]] We can't afford the same system today. [[The president calls.]] I'm gonna ask you what. A senator whether he agrees.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u238	V.E.G. President. I think we can afford to spend more time in health care in the country. We can afford to do that. That way, I want to look at the income gate, too, and the less used income stocks. I look at the fishing fee, and I look at the resources that could give a lot more money in a common fund than they do. This was one of the first things that the present government cut down by billions. We've been there, like, tens of billions. [[Up front.]] For example, energy taxes are being imposed here. I know there's a different kind of taxation in that area, but that's what we're going to be doing with a lot of money, too. So we have the chance to give money from our common resources to make the health services of the country equipped to carry out their assignments in a way that I think we all want. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Let us not forget, when we see the collapse, the terrible collapse, that in its contingency, even during the years of prosperity, land hospital, and health care, had been severely impaired. [[The president calls.]] We must not forget that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u239	A respectable president. As the president serves me, a few discussions were made earlier in the meeting what the president's plan was for the evening. Now that the clock is about midnight, it is only natural to call for how long the president intends to continue a meeting this evening. Committee meeting is scheduled in the morning. Knowing that, the leading body of money committees screwed up with microgamy and the elderly because she did not trust herself to meet them tonight but has delayed it until the morning. It is also necessary for members of the body to prepare for that meeting, and therefore it is called for an explanation from the president on how long a meeting will be planned for tonight.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u240	A respectable president. I believe it is the least that can be done to members of Congress before going to Congress this morning. It is not as if we were allowed to rest for six hours before going to committees tomorrow. It is impossible for senators to submit to laws other than other people when it comes to them. I think there is good reason to review when we finish this meeting, and it might be advisable to do it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u241	A respectable president. It's been a long time tonight. They're still here for the first few speeches. If you have a view of the now long - held Interpretation Index, there are men in first speeches, quite a few, ahead of you. I don't think it's easy to offer the discussion that people are giving their first talks in the middle of the night and late at the end of the hall. It will not be appropriate, the discussion will not be natural as it needs to be when it is expressed in such matters as the laws of the law that have a very heavy and highly political foundation. There is no question that people are being made that they are not allowed to give their first talks as long as the Senate is up and talking about their speeches, their answers, and so forth.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u242	Mr. President. We voted here earlier today for the duration of a council meeting. It was almost there. There, the president arranged for us to meet until evening. It wasn't for them in their dealings with the president how long the meeting continued, but the Convention is very long and it is clear that this discussion has been well established in a considerable way in the country. In the morning, three panel meetings are scheduled, one at the time. 8:30 and two o'clock. 9 and then there's a planned meeting with micro-agers and elderly members of a budget board at lunchtime, and it's expected that members of the Committee will have time to prepare for this meeting. I'm asking, Mr. President, how long is it planned to continue this assembly meeting? Of course, we want to make it a point that there is a superiority so that people are not giving their first talk in the middle of the night. I'm asking the President to grant the peaceful wish to inform the council of their plans.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u243	A respectable president. Why do people always have to act like fools at this time of the year, go to some ◯polisplay; to us senators about when a Senate meeting ends, threaten us to stay here until the morning? And what are we going to get out of this other than the fact that this place is running into chaos? Why can't we talk like people? Why can't the Speaker of the Council just tell us: This is the box, and we go home by 2 p.m. Twelve or one or what? Why does this need to be so? It's weird, and it's just gonna be weird. Little wonder that people don't climb up or down in this council, and they don't connect with them at all because these things don't come out, they don't interact anywhere else. And setting a clear frame here on how long this discussion should last, it would show us respect, the members of the body, and the administrative part would also be showing a measure of honor to themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u244	A respectable president. Clearly, there are different types of foods that people place on time. That's what it said. paritaprevir At the beginning of this discussion, Hjörvar's Helgi, that it was beginning to be at midnight. It is a little after 10:30 in the evening, and it is a little early for how long we sat at meetings during our last term, where we spoke until four and five at night. But it's just that they're complaining at the highest level of government in the last terms. I understand very well that the newcomers here at the council find it odd to take maybe one night, but people may be getting older, I don't know, they may not have as much pressure to be here at night meetings. But I can tell you, a respectable president, that during the last term, a council assembly was spoken from this platform until dawn, and was unappreciative. Then there was no disrespect for anyone or anyone.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u245	President. I think it's kind of insulting that the last administration is being referred to, and this, I wasn't here, the pyramids weren't here, there's a lot of new people here. [[Up front.]] There are a lot of good research on how to work under stress and fatigue, and this does not result in good results and good work. We have a law on rest time, I don't know if they're relevant here, but I'd like to hear an opinion about it. People are supposed to be at work in the morning - if someone's a lawyer about what time rules apply to us here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u246	A respectable president. Yeah, that's right, newcomers talking, getting old too, that's right. But in another way, I'm fine. [[Up front.]] However, I would like to encourage the president to continue this discussion until the night and not be cutting off this meeting too soon. The first talk is said to be so late in the evening. Should we give the first talk between 9 and 5, which is the latest? It's true that this discussion goes quite far into the country. Since there are many on the rosary, it is necessary to make use of the time we have, both now and even to the night and the next few days and to the evening also, as well as then, as possible. I encourage the president to continue this meeting and not end it too soon.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u247	V.E.G. President. I don't know if this is to be called censoral - and how we make up literature, ritual, or custom - all of us who have been present during this election period during the council and in the previous councils and in the previous councils. Since the President sits heavy and silent while we desire to get it out of him for how long to enter the evening. Today, senators in charge of the left movement stated to the United States that they did not in themselves comment on the fact that something would continue during the evening of a discussion on the budget, before but would like to know how long it would be. They were not responding to this, members of Parliament, and they were now required for half an hour, 45 minutes, on the matter, and did not detract from the president and then vote on the matter. Now this is going to happen again and again, I predict, after every speech, until these answers are available. Do not have to revise the process and may be at the highest level. Is that not the case with the president of the Generals?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u248	No one escapes the notice that a seated president is a heavyweight man, but he appreciates it. A senator would have raised this issue.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u249	V.E.G. President. It was a solid agreement at the General Assembly to change the General Assembly Assembly in order that the Council would meet on another Tuesday in September to facilitate legal management. But what happened was the second. has been repeatedly suspended, leaving very many conflicting stories about how the problems in the administrative sector were involved. Now it's 2nd over. and there are many who want to express themselves. We in the United States support a meeting until midnight, but we don't support a night meeting. There's no reason, there's nothing that needs to be done at the council except the financial bill and the income bill, and we have plenty of time to do that. There are a few days ahead that we can do in this discussion. [[The president calls.]] There's nothing going on. Let us keep our braces well, but let us give it to ourselves and show the pedestrians the respect that when we discuss it, we are reasonably asleep.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u250	Mr. President. I agree, the wish was, in fact, knowing about a time, not that it couldn't be found, but just the timing. It is true that from the memory of the section, it was said that it was okay to meet until midnight. But it would also be good to have it confirmed. We've got two members of the board on the rosary that I'd like to be able to reach, at least one of them at midnight, and the other maybe around 1:30 if we keep going, and that's the best thing to do. But I'd like to know if I'd be here until the morning and then go straight to the General and Education Committee or whether we'll be up until 12, 1 or 2. Just getting some timing. I'm confident that the president who is now visiting has some tips on it. There must have been something discussed on the part of the Commission and the president when the Council is to be concluded, and I reiterate the requests presented here for a time to come. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u251	A respectable president. If the chairman of the financier wants to go to the last season, I'm sure there'll be a few talks on the President's Conference Board and the duration of a meeting and a witness to them. But I thought we had put this habit on the shelf, and the nightly meetings were heard, and I'm surprised if the president intends to continue the meeting into the night. Of course, it will remove the stone when the chairman of a legal committee allows himself to come here and be presumptuous toward members of the Parliament, for this council was hurried over a period of three weeks to give a legal committee more than enough time to turn the case into the Assembly Hall. And there is the chairman of the budget board, Vigdís Hauksdóttir, which brings it nearly two weeks late because it has been carrying billions of subjugations that were totally rejected by the government and its advisers. Its pointless conflict makes us need to stand here, and some are even supposed to enter the night because the work at the leading financial committees was completely unrealistic and not in any way in harmony with the Congress's work programme. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u252	President. Hv. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson encouraged the highest force. A president to keep a meeting too early. This stinged me up a little, don't finish a conference too early. What does that even mean? All I can think of is that Karl Garðarsson even and that when I think any other member of the board knows how long the meeting should be. In fact, I don't feel that all members of the council are not told how long the meeting should be until night or night. I simply challenge those in charge who know something about that matter, unless I'm wrong that they know when the meeting is over, to inform us about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u253	So the president aims to talk to the senator about other senators as respectful.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u254	A respectable president. What workplace in the country would be as effective as they plan to work night and night without knowing the time limit? What is the purpose of a drama showing such a spirit of authority that we cannot be aware of how long we are meant to stay awake and stay here? V.E.G. President. People now have lives, families, children waiting at home, birthdays, there's something else going on in people's lives. It's not as if we at the government stand, we're afraid to stay here and do our job, we just want to know if there's any room for life during those hours. [[The president calls.]] This is the beginning of the second. [[The president calls.]] It's so ridiculous to be taking nights to finish your first speeches. [[The president calls.]] Paying for this financial discussion has not been in the position of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u255	A respectable president. I'd like to agree with the people who've been here. We don't wave about standing here talking. However, we wish to know when people will finish the discussion. That's incredibly lame. Somehow, it's like the kid on the school floor who says, "Nanana, boom, boom, I know when we finish, but not you -- trying to keep us on our toes over something. " This is so embarrassing. It's a film that's not supposed to be at the General Assembly of the Icelanders. We should take things seriously, we should set a clear frame, and we should be able to talk about when we finish. [[Up front.]] Even if it's time. two or two o'clock. Let's just say three, and we'll decide. A respectable president. You see, it is true. paritaprevir Þorvarðardóttir Þordaindóttir says that what makes this job unattractive for those who think about going into politics is the unpredictable reality. [[The president calls.]] We can work long, we can work hard, but we need to anticipate something. [[The president calls.]] Some of us even have guys at home that we're a little shot in and we want to make plans. [[The president calls.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u256	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson indicated earlier that I knew when this assembly should be completed or planned to complete it. That's not true, I have no idea, I haven't asked that. But he can stay until 3, 4 or 5 this night because of me. [[Up front.]] It is true that the Senate work involves unpredictableness, such as fraught with revulsion. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir called, but we do the same when we do this job. This job is unpredictable. [[Up front.]] We don't have much to do with timing of this job. Since I started this job three years ago, there have been no dates at all or at all, and most of the administrative parts have been to blame in most cases.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u257	President. Just like this to clear the situation we're in, nobody's talking about us not supposed to continue the meeting. They're asking, "When are the President planning to complete the meeting? " Is it complicated? [[For example: Do you have many questions to ask?]] Until we get an answer. You see, usually in human relationships, people ask, and even an answer comes, and when so many have asked them, the person is very pleased to give such an answer. That is why I would conclude that it was time for the president to answer that question when she has come up here in different editions from different members of the council. This is mostly very stupid and very old-fashioned. What is this all about? Is this all about the President or the administrative part showing its power or something? Is that what this is about? The eight president and the other part of the government may not be saving time with this because our government situation is quite clear as to the fact that this approach and treatment of power is old - fashioned, it is missing, and it is not something that we are willing to do. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's just not like that. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u258	V.E.G. President. I'm going to come over here, and I'm going to have another government opponent and I'm going to ask him, "When will the President complete this meeting? I hear my associates are very splint and they don't want to stay in here into the night. I'm going to say for the part that the budget is a policy debate for the government at any given time, and in that discussion, we're going to come up with the big lines on our political agenda. I now prefer to participate in such discussions during normal waking hours and to ask that we not be at night in this discussion. I think it's strange, I don't think it's a disrespect for politics that we don't take them more seriously than we think it's normal to be here at some night's party discussing the cost of the Icelandic state of about 700 billion dollars.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u259	Mr. President. Now words are spoken into my mouth from a hall that I will not take. I'm sure when a meeting is extended to the end of the evening or night... that we senators get to know at the beginning that there should be a meeting, for example, at the end of the week. 2 after midnight. We'll just know, or 3 or 4. What form of shyness is not giving up at first? It's like you're having some excitement, and then there's a meeting board. It's always the same. I wonder if we're having senators working for our money, they've just been up and up again, and now they're going to have senators earn their money. But I'll make that claim, chief. President, that all members of Congress must be at this workplace working for their money and stay here until work is over. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] I'll ask them to the highest. The president calling them all members of Congress so that we are not just a member of the council here. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u260	A respectable president. I'd like to ask you when the Senate will be completed. Although the habit was bad for years, like the wind. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson said that this is an unpredictable recording of all, important for all, I would think, especially young people at the General Meeting who own children at home, to know pretty much what to expect. Although it's night coming, for example, I'm expected at home. I know it's the highest. The president doesn't want babies crying into the night because they don't get to drink at their mother's, but they don't get it if I don't know when the meeting's over because I have to make arrangements about when I'm going home. [[The president calls.]] It's just like that, so I'd like to know when a meeting is over.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u261	A respectable president. There's a lot of people here on the rosary. Most of them are government opposers, most of whom were supposed to speak - respectful presidents. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] There's so much turmoil in the room. - Most of them are senators who planned to talk, but there are still some left. You talk about old-fashioned and you're out of practice. Of course, I'm not going to let anyone here think that the government's in some sort of chess game or anything like that. There are many people on the rosary, and we need to let them talk. I urge the president to continue this meeting so that we can listen to the many talks ahead. They have been interesting, and this has been an interesting exchange today. I hope that they will remain, and I encourage a president who sits heavy, yet lightly on the edge to continue this meeting as long as possible. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u262	Mr. President. I like that theory anyway. paritaprevir Our associate, Skarphéðinsson's son, drinks that there will be no able - bodied senator here until he has stayed up one night and saw the sun rising out of this window. But we are at the critical time of the year. I wonder if the sunrise is late in the tenth hour tomorrow morning and it would be quite working. True, it was once a meeting in the upper ward until ten o'clock in the morning that they had been standing for less than 24 hours, but it sounds to me that no one misses them at that time. The situation at the General Assembly is that of December 9, soon 10. There's going to be a budget to be done, there's going to be reimburse income videoworm, that's going to be a payment on the budget itself, and a prospective financial bill, expected to be several years - related matters. [[Up front.]] The reality will soon dawn before the administrative point that it is in his interest to have a good spirit of cooperation at the council if it is to be properly completed by Christmas. That's why it's a good thing for a president not to let time go into something like this. He can quickly publish it whenever he plans to stop tonight or night and even if that would be said at 2 p.m. 1 or 2 that we would have done quite well, if we knew it would immediately change a great deal, Mr. President. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u263	It is still quite a moment until midnight, and it is not too tired to see any man.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u264	Mr. President. It seems to me that it's particularly us that we have the longest track in the field that's got the most endurance. I must admit after listening to talks. Senators it seems to me that the younger ones are less quick and mobile than the rest of us, perhaps longer than we would like to recall at that hour. V.E.G. The president knows how I feel about the Senate, and I love it here, and I'm in no better place than here, even if I could say the same thing. paritaprevir Ólafsdóttir, that they were waiting for me at home, that doesn't happen too seldom. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] But I agree with what. Councilmen who have pointed out that there is much unrest in the hall. What creates uncertainty in people stirs riots, and I ask nothing else at the highest. But that he makes known whether he intends to make an appointment later in that night.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u265	As the president said before, there is still much time until midnight and there is no fatigue to see at any man, so the president intends to continue a meeting here for a while.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u266	President. At the beginning of my talk here, and so on, I plan to discuss the opinion of the greater section and the budget bill as such. I save it for a later time, either later in my speech or in my next talk, and further on the superiority of the budget, the financial debate as it has been reflected in society, and to us who have not participated in the discussion, or have been in the field of budget within the council. In my opinion, there are a number of codices with what has been heard and seen in many literature that are now considered to be literature. In fact, the world literature is filled with stories of a wide variety of people telling fairy tales of themselves or seeing the world differently from most people. That's the story of Don Kíkóti. He read of knights' stories, was confused, and actually read them badly, and lost his guts, as the story says about him, and followed a global trip with the goal of doing good, gaining an eternal reputation for heroism and chivalry. As a result, he accompanied his assistant, Sansjó Pansa, who cared for his master and made sure that he would not be killed by himself or anyone else. In Don Kíkóti's mind, the world was sometimes meant to change into everything and more than others could see. Thus, windmills became great giants and scary ones, thus becoming groups of sheep to enemy armies and farmers, thus turning into beautiful princesses. Naturally, all of this could involve untold problems and misunderstandings, resulting in some consequences and certainly not all predictable. At that time, it was good to have an assistant who had the primary role of correcting his master, i.e. trying to explain to others what he was talking about and what he was saying and doing because he was not completely aware of what he said and did. There are also stories of Münchhausen Baron. They are as interesting and interesting in many ways as they are, without any doubt, among the most famous and amusing of lying, exaggeration, and conceited stories that have ever been written. True, they are attributed to German barons, who were supposed to have enjoyed telling stories about themselves, exploits and achievements, and amazing dangers that he often faced while traveling around the world. For fun, I'm going to recall one brief story about the Münhause Münchhausen that he said of himself when an ugly wolf attacked him and was going to eat it. And with President's permission, she reads: One time, a frightened wolf attacked me so quickly and so hard, it was all for pushing his fist into his wide-open tweezle. To be sure, I pressed and pushed afterwards until his arm was all in his mouth to his shoulder. But then the trouble started with how to get out of it. I was not particularly comfortable in this trouble, looking into the face of a wolf, and there were no eyes of love against each other. If I were to lower my arm, he'd know to rush me even more crazy than before his eyes were shining. It's the shortest from saying that I took my hand with my hand in his tail, turned it to the end like a mitling, and threw it down the suburbs and left it there. That's how Münchhausen described his struggle with the wolf, and there are other fascinating stories about the Münchhausen, but he solved most pains with great calmness and manhood, as the story of the bad wolf shows. Similarly, there are many accounts in Jón the Árnason's son's legends that compare interesting people with Münchhausen, or even Don Kíkóti, in fairy tales. So it is said of one man, who, after hunting on the north side of the natural world, rode the ship, the next day, when men came to fish, that the deep streaming after him was seen all the while. So determined and so firm that for a long time, the surface of the ocean was smoldering. In other words, it is enough to take along when it comes to hero and fairy tales and lying stories, and it seems that people are often ready to tell stories of themselves and that in their own words often have little insurmountation when it comes to looking better, only rarely to be destroying a good story with the truth. In time, there are countless stories of adventures and experiences of Icelandic businessmen who regularly spread stories about themselves and amazing achievements in foreign lands, often closer. That is how Icelandic businessmen told stories about how they conquered the world with special business models and a strong mixture of their own understanding and abilities. They conquered the world and taught the nations new customs, and they previously went on unable to do business with them. Even nations with centuries of business history were told to have been taken by Icelandic businessmen and taught a lesson for them. The Icelandic politicians are not a submerged, and especially members of the government, the right party now sitting at the council, and must now be counted among the nation's leading historians of hero and achievement, even lying stories in the spirit of Münchhausen and Don Kíkóta. Thus, they hardly tell stories about themselves unless almost something world history has happened, and everything that is done is more and less struggling with unknown forces that no one sees and even comes from another world. Thus, the prime minister may tell stories about himself, that he was exposed to various forces that prevented him from reaching his own way. Or he is struggling with the value of bad beings that no one else sees. Or the threat of being eaten by wicked and foul wolves would come to him if he gave up in his endless struggle against them. An example of this is an interview received over a month ago by the Prime Minister of the Wolf. During the interview, the player asks: Here are some things that don't want to escape the insurance. Do you feel these forces? And prime minister answers: Yes, yes. You bet your ass I did. And the reporter again asks, "Are these forces connected to the Independence Party or to the banks? " Then the prime minister does not want to answer or hang this on certain categories, but when he was joined, he admitted that there was certainly a part of the Independence Party. During a front - page interview with DV a few weeks ago, a prime minister was similar to that of abductor in the bank farm of the old bank. Then the minister, among other things, says: ▪ I know that certain people who wanted to influence the discussion over the media were planning to spread stories about me, with the intention of trying to reduce my credibility and damage my chances of being involved. And speaking of blackmail and threats, I've even been threatened by them. When asked further on the subject, the minister becomes mysterious, even speaking of him and others who are not mentioned at all as threats. As to the threats, the minister of the DV interview tells us by permission of the President: ▪ [They were] that the government was acting in such a way to these stakes that we would be allowed to pay it, and we would continue to follow this course. They would be in a position to harm us greatly. Come on, he says: ▪ It is very dangerous for politics if it has become a struggle to fall into personality persecution and threaten, believing it to be the best way to achieve its own ends. Yet, it has never been reported who threatened the prime minister, what threatened him, or who else was threatened, whether he saw a reason to do something with these threats, even charges against the police because threatening people is serious. I most likely feel that the end of these stories was in the spirit of Münchhausens, where he thrust his arm against the shoulders of the wolf and turned its suburbs and then threw it away dead next to him. I don't know anything about that. Yet, from members of Congress, I feel that I take the lead among the peers of the Gaming Committees. However, the head of the committee is more forward than ever, although I often feel that it is hardly possible to do so. In this way, the vice president of the budget board describes work as making budgets in the pursuit of hard labor as a last resort to government savings by any means available. In an interview with the Morning daily newspaper, the vice president said the following, with the permission of a president: It's hard to save from institutions. The system will defend itself by any means necessary. There is a lack of understanding of the importance of maintaining financial security and in this case having a simple and efficient surveillance system. This is the total cost of taxpayers, and this is also a major indirect cost of employment and the people of the country, as everyone knows... The budget is inexplicable, and smaller issues are likely to be involved instead of discussing big things. The vice president says that the law of incorruption is extremely strong. To address these issues, there must be an interaction between the European Commission and the Parliament. It seems that while men are prepared to make adjustments, they lack to do so, the vice president of a legal committee said. The effects of Don Kíkóta, the effects of wrestling with something that no one else sees. It doesn't specifically explain what the system is. The system's fighting. It's hard to control the system, it defends itself. The enemy is not light. It's not visible to anyone except the one who tells the story. Also, there is no attempt to define anything in particular the priorities described by the vice president or the inconsistencies of the law. However, men are said to be ready, and they lack the ability to implement change. What is so hard, and who are these men? This mantra has been repeated in talks here today. It's so hard, it's so twisted because some men and some system is defending themselves. Are these government officials? Is this staff advice? Are these government officials? Are these Ministers? Are these the founders of institutions, hospitals, schools, the Roadmaker even, the university, high school? Actually, you're right next door. I'm afraid the vice president of the budget is not sufficiently understandable, i.e. To the point that it can be difficult to grasp large issues, as he mentioned, and members of the council as well as others, including the one here, to be guilty of frequently forgetting smaller matters and not to look to the long term future. Let's find out a little bit more later. In the fall of 2014, the chairman of the legal committee claimed that large amounts of money had been placed in the Land Hospital or 10 billion dollars. which would have been, by word of mouth, by permission of the president, separated it into the land hospital that the left welfare government cut down to the national hospital. This was well measured, as expected, and no more than in the account of the annual wages that were seen on the fjord the day after the coolness of the country. But what about those involved? Those on the scene do they agree with the chairman of a financial committee? Did they agree that with the 10 billion people who were supposed to have been put in the Land Hospital, the chairman of the Board's Fundament Committee was improved from the collapse before the hospital? Regarding this, the president of the Land Hospital in his fistula on the home page of the Land Hospital, with the permission of a president: A radio interview this morning was conducted with the board and discussed contributions to the National Hospital on the requested bill and on the budgets of the previous one. She was persuaded that about 10 billion were given to the hospital by means of budgeting 2014 and bill until 2015, and the cutoffs of the last few years were equal. Better if it was true. In order for that to happen, there would have been 16 billion new donations to the hospital. However, the cumulative increase in the hospital management base during the specified period is 3.5 billion, as well as a new contribution to the target cost of about 2.8 billion, which has been granted a total of 6.3 billion dollars. to the hospital for the next two years. This is quite far from the 10 billion mentioned by the chairman. The pay and price benefits the hospital has received may be referred to. However, it is misleading to consider correction due to the increase in salary and prices as an increase in contribution to the function, as this is calculated to all Member States. In general, awards are provided to all the institutions of the EU to support the prices such as the collective agreements the government has made with its employees and other changes in prices in the country. In fact, at the end of the fistula, Páll Matthíasson, director of the Land Hospital, adds that it is important for the Agency to have an upbuilding conversation with the financial authority on the hospital's projects and financing. The proverb, with the permission of the president, ends the manager in these words: ▪ That conversation must be based on facts rather than on statements that do not pass an opinion and that do not continue to carry out the discussion. A land hospital is always ready for such a total. Thus, the declarations and claims of the chairman of the budget board failed to meet a basic test. They turned out to be some sort of mixture or mix of exaggeration stories or hero novels without privacy, where different objects were stirred together, and the result could never be more than nonsense. The latest examples of the false and unscrupulous statements made by the chairman of the legal committee can be found in the media today. There Tómas the Guðbjartsson of Thomson, a surgeon at the Land Hospital, finds the Chairman's misdirection in her a few times. Tómas, for example, said that the chairman of a legal committee felt that he and her were making a lot of money buying at the Land Hospital, e.g. ... andsomething else. The fact is, however, that the United States escaped unbelievably cheap from these sideworks. Privates have prepared and saved matters with a priceless contribution. He says: So the latest feathers of the Land Hospital are at the expense of private but not public - even though Vigdís and Þór try to persuade people to believe otherwise. According to Dr. Tómas, when more of the legal committee decided that the hospital would not receive extra funds on funds to ensure the hospital's basic services and housing reforms, the staff of the hospital was greatly disappointed. To that decision, Dr. Vigdís Hauksdóttir and Guðlaugur, Þór Þórðarson, thought of Tómas the son of Guðbjartsson, a surgeon of the Land Hospital. So it's the same place. There is no stone standing upon the hearing of the commissions of the money committees, and what they say is hardly a mark. It's almost as if they don't know the difference between right and wrong, and they just can't help telling modest hero stories of themselves and presenting their own achievements that are out of control in real life, as is theirs in the case of Münchhausen. Earlier in this discussion, the chairman of the budget committee explained that a greater proportion of the legal committees and the government groups were on health level in terms of their priorities and that they were being given money as never before. Thus, the chairman also describes the media cases a few days ago that the health issues were now in a pretty good place, considering what had been done during the last term. It adds that in the past, the Landspians received a large amount of money, but no money is specifically meant to do so on the next budget. But this is how it is? Does everybody agree on this? What do those who are in the field say? As to these statements, the president of the Hospital in a fistula on the hospital website, with the permission of a president, says: The amount of money we receive in the budget is not expected to increase, so the hospital actually receives 1.7% of savings per year and all the funds we receive will actually start with the added stress. Thus, it has become a case of germination, which is difficult to unwind unless the facts are faced with the facts. ... The cost will not be less if you plan it lower. And on with the President's permission: This morning, along with the secretary - general of finance, I was invited to a meeting of the General Assembly to inform us about our concern and our evaluation of the situation. There we explained that despite the financial resources that have come to the hospital for the past two years and we appreciate it, the fact is that the hospital's funding is still running out of place. The conduct of the management committee and the lack of understanding of the basic services for the public at the hospital disappointed me. Disappointments in view of the importance and scope of the seminary and the clear will of the nation shown by poll analysis; that there should be priorities in the interests of health care above anything else. It is still not a stone upon stone in the declarations of the presidents and spokesmen of the budget committee, and worse, the experiences of the Director of the Land Hospital are that neither the chairman of the Commission nor the vice president of the Committee understand the basic services provided by the National Hospital and are therefore not likely to gain the benefit of the hospital. Their attitude is so reflected in the way they treat the hospital and staff directors. Hv. The chairman of the budget committee describes 2nd. One day, two days ago, there was a huge increase in prison terms, 45 million on budgets, and 45 million on next year's budgets on the budget. From her words, it is reasonable to assume that the prison cases are on the straight path, not too much to complain. But what do those who are in the field who have something to say about this party? For this reason, Páll Winkel, director of the branch office, made this observation, in an interview with a news reporter VOLV, that the Agency is forced to close prisons and reduce the number of prisoners to make changes to a greater part of the financial committee. The Agency has reached its breadth, and it is appropriate to stress that this is the same adjustment proposal as the chairman of the legal committee described almost to solve the problems of the country's prisons. On the contrary, the president's permission report continues: In fact, after considering 11 million, the increase is said to be more Páll Winkel million. K. required. According to a special emergency program carried out by the branch office of the State Department of Prison at the request of the Ministry of Internal care, notice - the office said it would take at least 80 million. K. increase next year And he goes on to say: And then I'm not talking about, and I'm highlighting it, some list or pet project or something in that style, but a minimum amount to run the system safely. - Minimum amount to run the system safely. Páll goes on, with president's permission: Look, we've closed prisons, we've reduced the number of prison guards, we've reduced service to prisoners, less visits to prisoners, children can only come on week-to-day visits, less access to study. Anything that costs money, my outdoors and so forth and so forth. Only every two, every three years do we run a prison school. All we have to do and we can get away, so we'll get away. Except it's something you can only do for a certain amount of time. And further on, Páll Winkel says: Since we have closed one prison, the situation is that we cannot have as many prisoners in the next year as we do today. It's very simple, our missions are prisoners, and we have to reduce the number of projects, and it's only about to reduce the number of prisoners. It is still evident at the beginning of the study and at the first response that there is nothing to be said to the head of the legal committee. It's not real. There's no basis for that. The committee's leaders will also be talking about their accomplishments in the budget, as it is difficult, hard - to - understand ordinary people, an endless battle with the system, and some humans, and some incontrovertial law. But as usual, they usually report on changes to the budget board, i.e. to the budget bill on 2nd. Um... like some historic event. It is usually discussed by major changes after a great deal of struggles with various forces, from this world as well as from the rest of it, and extraordinary pressures and pressures, but it has been achieved to produce changes that mattered immensely. What, though, are the facts already being considered? What changes will be made in budgets since they are submitted and made as law? Normally, the budget changes very little in terms of the council and the legal committee. In fact, all of the biggest changes are due to an update to the income plan or budget by the latest information reported since the work of the bill in late summer. As an example of this, for example, in the amendment of the budget because of the bill on this subject, there is a proposal to raise the income to more than 4 billion, 4.2 billion if I recall correctly, due to the changes in presupervision. Most of it is an increase in tax revenue, most of which are worth tax taxes, up to 5.5 billion, which is based on data on the pressures of sum taxes. Other changes are largely explained by changes in growth. The increase in expenses, as measured by the changes in the share, is nearly 9 billion. This is largely explained by the pay of collective contracts. Other changes are insignificant, as is the case with funding a budget for each year. As an example, the changes in the budget of this year's budget are 0.6% on the income side and 1.3% on the pay button. For 2015's budget, adjustments were made for 2nd. 1.4% on the income side and equal on the pay gate. In 2014, it was 4% on the remuneration side and 4% on the income side, and this had been specifically discussed at the beginning, when the bill was submitted, that the change was made because it was not finished. Those who remember it asked the government for time to put in the bill because they weren't ready for it - 2013, 1.5% on both sides, income gate, and payback gate, 2012, 0.3% on the income gate and the pay gate. So changes in terms of the council, from the time the bills are submitted to the law, are very small, and can be explained to the vast majority of the calculated sizes and updates on the income gate and better collections on income, farm contracts, etc. On average, there are changes in budgets from the first time it is submitted to the law, about 1% on the pay and income side. The bad thing about the adjustment of the budget committee at this time is that the initial balance of the budget is reduced, i.e. This reduces the provision, the difference between income and pay. There's less business left to pay off debt, reduce debt, and pay off interest, but when the bill was canceled. It hurts. In fact, because of the budgets of the current year, changes in budgets also reduced the balance of budgets. This year, however, I think it's about 8%. The adjustment results in a reduction of about 8% of the expected equation in the year 1st. The bill when it was submitted. According to the budget bill, the third in a row on the right of the board, there is strong hope that government funds will be fired on the right side of zero next year. The budget was for the first time removed from collapse to the 2013 budget after an enormous amount of action, as it were, in earning money and reducing expenses and turning a lost position to victory, which we did. Every year after a collapse, the improvement of tens of billions of dollars in government affairs, 57 billion in 2009, 50 billion in 2010, and so on until four years after the collapse, we turned back to victory, and gave up a trust fund at zeros in the right government that took here in the spring of 2013. There they are today. At exactly the same place they started in the spring of 2013, struggling to keep state funds on zero, swindling in the same print. Worse still, they cannot rely on the government's underlying business to settle into government business next year. Rather, they intend to rely on bank funds to do so. This is mine to know so adventurous mismanagement of the government that I think there is a search for something like, at least in later years, if not from a republic institute, so ambitious, powerless, and sleazy financial bill is presented. Of 700 billion bucks. Let's take it to return 10 billion leftovers, just over 1% of income and have to go to the National Bank to get it. They can't do that from government business. In my opinion, this is both a disgrace and a disgrace and an inexplicable lack of ambition for the government and those who support this government here at the council Hall and are going to run this bill through. That in the third year, the right administration, led by the financial minister of the Independence Party, will be in charge of the Ministry and Justice Committee, who claims to know and know all how to do anything, will go to the same place, in the third year in a row. All old - fashioned and good conservatives would have given back this treasure now, considering what they got four years ago, with 50 billion bucks. leftover. I'm sure of it. Good and conservatives would shamefully sit down with a bill of the kind here. This is the situation. This is the fight they're up to right now; after three years we're stuck at zero and we'll get money out at Lands Bank, hopefully. The worst thing about this inadequacy and failure of the government section is that it undermines the credibility of government funds and weakens the wealth of state to cope with the slightest swings ahead. And they will come. They'll come someday. By the same continuation of this budget bill, a government fund will have been planted, so within it, it will be fully prepared to cope with the slightest down cycle, at the slightest shock. When the income stocks are growing and growing, and the job is growing, under those circumstances, they can't return state funds to zero except by going to the bank. They will not be able to cope with minimal decline over the years. A government government government that does this in this way for the third year will not be able to protect the welfare system, the health system, the hospitals, or the schools at the time of a downturn. She's coming, I promise you, that's the way it's always been. As I have traced in this speech, due to a budget bill of 2015, most of the cases of stone are standing on every case in the comments and declarations of the heads of the administrations here at the council or in the government. This is just as true in financial matters as it is in other matters. They don't know much about themselves, and they're struggling to tell hero stories and monuments of themselves, which no one knows or sees, and no one can testify about but themselves, as I traced back to this day. I have also demonstrated this lack of ambition, this tremendous lack of ambition, and then the independence party remains of all things, which have often spoken as if he had little understanding of financial matters, especially government matters. Not even being able to run a government fund now, three years after they got it to zero, so they can start paying off debts. They haven't started yet. The largest part of the Committee shows that it will not be started next year, either. More than that, the committee's list clearly states that there is still some land to begin subsiding debt and interest costs. That's because they can't. They've destroyed the income trails. During this election period, they have turned aside income, at the end of it, to nearly 100 billion dollars. And they still have more than 100 billion dollars in their hands today. More to be done than the government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir had ended the last terms. We returned the budget at zero. How on earth do you do this? How can humans really be so irresponsible about government affairs? Hv. The vice president of the legal committee requested that men discuss the big picture that is drawn up in the budget. I agree with him about that. We need to talk about it. We need to discuss the big film that is drawn up in the budgets of each year and when each year's budget is checked together and when it begins to stick together and be drawn up. What, then, is the picture of the budget that this evil right government is putting here by means of a financial bill? The picture of the budget of the right categories becomes clearer each year. This is a picture of an inequities in which the cost of the material things is more efficient. Since the wealthiest are spared from paying to the community and where the largest of the companies are shot under community responsibility at the expense of health, health, and education. The big picture is deconstructing a wealth tax and an increase in food tax. The big picture is of a billions of drop in hunting costs and from a hospital where patients live in corridors, coffee rooms, or equipment rooms. The big picture is of a bank manager who describes a gooder one than a poorest land hospital or a student who has been evicted from school. The big picture is of the senators and ministers and the elderly and the microplies who the same senators and ministers took away the natural compensations of yesterday's vote; where the "no" team, the management team, opposed it. The big picture is of the sleek home of the National Hospital, a miserable situation that the hospital's managers and doctors have been describing in recent days, and recently lost on the other hand, while plans for building at the General Assembly, according to the 100 - year - old architect's drawing, to satisfy the need for prime ministers and their interest in old buildings. Let's talk about this big picture. That's what we're supposed to do, and the big things that the budget shows us. But then let's build it up a conversation, and I'll witness again to the heads of the Land Hospital, on facts, not on statements that fail to hold their minds and bring nothing forward, as the director would like to receive from the Council of Congress, but have not received. Let us discuss it correctly and base it on facts rather than on myths that have no real support. We don't need hero stories. We just need facts. Then this large image is drawn up by the budget of the right government, the third budget in a row, that they can't afford to run a government fund in order to be a waste in the same place as they took over spring 2013, and no plans upstairs to start subsidies that were held here at the last term by the same people; how important it would now be to take on the government; how necessary it was, and I completely agree to make money, to pay off debt, pay off money, pay off interest, increase in hospitals, schools, welfare. Where, though, are we? With a request for a share of the budget committees and management committees who wish to do so, hoping that government funds will land on the right side of zero next year, the fourth year in a row. But in order to do so, they need to go to the Bank of Lands and get some money because they don't get him into the government's business. It's a political oracle, in my opinion, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u267	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir In many respects, a fine talk is presented by a young man Björn Gíslason Gíslúlsson. He was told of Münchhausen's lying Münchhausens and quoted extensively from the various presidents of state, which usually surface in the last two months of each year and demand more money. There's nothing new. This has happened as long as the oldest humans remember. He specifically discussed contributions to health care, suggesting that this government was in no way successful in this regard. It is to be noted that in the past three years, contributions to the hospital have increased by 30.1%, to hospitals by 34.6%, to health care by 27.2%. The change in donations to health during the last three years is 34 billion. I claim that nowhere, almost nowhere based, health - care contributions have increased as much in the past three years as in Iceland. Gonna go for it. paritaprevir Björn Valur Gíslason's brother, fighting for those numbers? Are they wrong? What does he want us to do in order to make him happy? Although we add 3 billion, as requested today, it will not be enough to keep the system going compared with what the Director of Hospital says. That will show the demands for the other 3 billion and then the other 3 billion. We know this, and this is what everyone knows. Why not start looking at the numbers and stop arguing that in three years we have made contributions to a land hospital? Gonna go for it. A senator arguing for that?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u268	President. I wasn't arguing for anything, not for anything. It's not about making me happy. It's not about that, though it was much better. I agree with what. paritaprevir The armoury of the son of Níelsson is far better that all of us are happy, including me. But that's not what it's all about. I wasn't arguing that there was money in the Land Hospital. But let me think about it with a bang. A senator told us that in 2009, we and the Land Hospital went bankrupt with $3 billion. extremity. Then, the director of the Land Hospital described the facility so that the hospital would not have been paid or drugs, and it would have concealed it from the staff. She would have informed her superior, but she would have tried to hide from the staff the economic situation of the Land Hospital. At the 2008/2009 season, there was 3 billion dollars. possible. That was the time. Healthcare Minister should do no longer over a long period of time. I'm not arguing that money was put in the Land Hospital, that's what it's been done. But I'm pointing out that it is wrong to assume that the heads of the government here at the council, in particular at the head of the budget board, were placed in the hospital to recover from the collapse, and it's all come back on a branding trip. No one would agree with that, except the chairman of the budget board and then what. Senator. No one else speaks that way. None of the health sector, none of the Land Hospital, no director of any single agency ever talks like that. I quoted the words, because I want to be clear of the sources, the people in which the matter is concerned, and there's no way you can agree on what you say, even though money has been placed in the Land hospital in recent years. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u269	A respectable president. In fact, no one mentioned 2008◯2009 except why. Senator. He's right. There's more money to be put in the Land Hospital. No amount of money can be placed into the hospital. We've made a huge amount of contributions to the Land Hospital, and that's a fact. It's something else. A senator came in was that he complained that there was not enough money left on the budget. I completely agree with that. There could be much more left over and would have to be so that we could pay off our debts. On the other hand, we have decided to place money in the foundation of society, including health care, including the increase in wages. We have put money in certain things to keep this society going and to rebuild it after what happened in 2008. Shouldn't we have? We could have done more. However, the government has spoken in a very different way in the last year. There has been a demand that money be put into it, this, and this, endless demands that more is placed on almost every sort of case. [[Up front.]] At the same time, they complain that there is not enough left over. What does it want? paritaprevir Björn Valur Gíslason? He wants more cuts? I don't think he'll come up here after this and say, "No, I don't want to. I want you to get more money to all those who have more money. We cannot go in the pockets of these people forever. That's the fact.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u270	A respectable president. You can put an endless amount of money into the hospital. That's right, but no one's talking about it. I'm pointing out what people say who run the Land Hospital. I'm pointing out what patients say. I'm pointing out what employees say. This isn't working anymore. It is not enough money to run the hospital if patients must be kept in a garage. It is not enough money to run the Land Hospital, says the president of the Land Hospital. The prison system cannot be run, says the head of the prison facility. Isn't that clear? Are these men lying? Do they tell the truth? It is wrong that there is no more money left because it has been placed so much in the welfare system and that society is being built up. That's exactly wrong. There is so little left over the government business this year and last year, and it will be next year because people have refused to earn money. I went over this earlier, through hunting fees, fiscal taxes, a decrease in energy tax, income tax, etc. that will be about 100 billion. in this termstance of the right government, which does not enter the box because it is the way they have it. They didn't want to. The candidates come here and say: These people cannot go into their pockets forever. What people are they talking about? Where have people been lowering taxes? It is a wealth tax of 1.5% of pure property, 100 million or whatever it was, 75 or whatever it was. You can't go in the pockets of these people forever. Others must pay. This is exactly what I'm pointing at. They have refused income, broke down their income, and are now unable to run state funds unless they have a right to zero as long as they walk to the Bank of Lands and get their money.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u271	V.E.G. President. I like to thank you for the custom. A speaker before the talk and sees what you can reason on, which is certainly a few points. I thought why. But a senator, if I am to be honest, spends a full amount of time in his former occupations, including On a financial committee, in view of the judicial committee, for the purpose of going straight to the man who is swift. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, chairman of the budget board, and why. paritaprevir Guðleur Þórðarson, vice president of the budget board. Words were used, such as lack of understanding and declaration, and then we were different. Senators will be at the head of the greater part of the world in time. A senator spoke of ambition, lack of understanding, and shame. So I don't know exactly where to reason with this. But I want to come up and say that I don't agree with anything at all. A senator because I think this is a good budget. Here is the third year in a row, and exactly as the dog. A senator came on, being running a state fund with leftovers. It had to turn this battle against six years before so that we will be on our way to cover debt and interest costs. Hv. A senator must agree that one of the priorities of the budget is reaching out for the third highest budget of the budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u272	A respectable president. I reasoned, using direct quotations to all the people I was talking about. I went to the man only to argue that the government's declarations about what was being done do not measure up; they do not hold their minds. No one agrees with them. No one agrees with what they do outside these two categories. I don't read any analysis of their actions in terms of financial contributions or human support. On the contrary, if not the same day within two, three days, almost all is again regularly. That's when everything has been reassigned. I repeat, it is a disgrace and shame to bring in the fourth year in a row, in the same place. On zero. That's not supposed to happen. No one ever thought about being in the spring of 2013 at the election then, in the year when the government bill was first submitted after the collapse of zero. Did it ever occur to someone that we were standing here discussing 2016's budget in exactly the same place, hoping for a zero operation? It's not right for us to run a government fund with leftovers this year or the next year. We need to make money to do so. We need to rely on irregular incomes. We hope that they will return to the treasure of the Kingdom, thus sliding over the zero. I completely agree with the senator that it is necessary to reduce debt. It was one of our primary objectives all the last terms to try to master the terms of government to get us on the right side of zero and then to continue to pay off debts and reduce interest costs. But the majority of the committees show that even next year it will not be done. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-09-50.u273	V.E.G. President. I'm going to thank you. paritaprevir A good answer to Björn Valur Gíslason. We agree. We are on the right way to be on hand to cover the debt of the state's funds, and we continue to take on the budget that is due interest. It is our shared assignment, and on this occasion I will allow myself to commend myself. It's a legal committee. It's, like, cot. A senator entered his talk, a great pressure on a budget board. They know why. A senator of his former profession. I feel that the whole committee, and especially the committee leaders, has been very successful under difficult circumstances. It had been a huge, long - term cut that was important. Hv. A senator suggested that the collective agreements reflect much of the budget. That is correct, but there had to be an effort to improve the salary in the country. It was done. We can see that in these words. Similarly, there was a need to continue improving our basic service. Hv. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson was opposed to these figures and reviewed them well to develop a health care professional. I mean, we're on the right track with the budget and, in that respect, about basic services and being on the move to pay off debt. I'm going to agree with you. A senator said that we would have liked to have more money, and we originally walked on the estimated 15 billion, which has reached a total of 10 billion. [[The president calls.]] But this budget, with the remainder of the third year in a row, provides reason to do better in the coming years.
