ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u1	Borist has a letter from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs asking for deadlines to give a written answer to a letter on the spell. 165, for environmental purposes in public shopping, from the Svandís's Svavarsdóttir. A letter has also been received from the Ministry of Health where request is made in order to give a written answer to a request for this request. 152, on the right of parents to support the loss of a child, from Brynhildur S. Björnsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u2	A respectable president. It has now been reported that Glitnis's demands have been planned to invite the state of Iceland to meet the stability conditions. This adjustment to the claimant stand is to be welcomed. The conclusion that the state is taking over Iceland seems to be better than what was previously offered. Their first suggestion included the possibility that foreign people would own the bank. At that time, a large portion of the bank's sales value and its remuneration would likely have left the country, creating more long - term pressure on payment. If this works out, it will probably mean that there will be a remuneration effect on the next few years, and these potential profits will be replaced by a government fund at the time of the bank. It also means that the potential value of the bank's future sales will flow to the state, not to demands. That is the benefit of both for the Kingdom. Of course, this suggestion is to be considered better, but at first glance here appears to be a better option on the table than it was in the summer. [[In the spirit of the former government.]] If this is the case, it is important that everything involved in business and the bank's future sales process be handled professionally. Governments have not changed from the objective that was introduced in spring when the study program was made public. The purpose of this programme is to clear the seas without risking economic stability, which is to address the national labour problems due to the break-up of the swollen population. Thus it is not in itself the goal of making money for a government fund or to punish the worn - out farms for their share in the collapse of the bank.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u3	A respectable president. It is true that there is much news in today's demands of Glimtis. It puts us on rich obligations if the Bank of Iceland moves to the State, especially when the government of Iceland's classes, perhaps Europe record or world record, are involved in corruption at the sale of state banks. The problem with this implementation is, of course, that the state is now shouldering a higher risk of domestic banking, and our story tells us that this is not a risky business. Of course, the value of this item is uncertain, and the risk is that in order to sell it properly, future buyers need to be granted a license to an Icelandic company and to the European public indefinitely. It is no joke to take on the task of selling two parts of property in two banks and one to the full in public property when the banking system is, as we all know, blown out, and way too big. Then we will explain why Iceland's government is like an expedient dog skin all over the ground of chasing foreign demands to help them get rid of the stable tax that would give the public hundreds of billions of dollars more than its stability proposals if it did. At the beginning of her career, the government promised that it would provide a bill on key laws that would allow people to get rid of debt and return their keys. Now it is clear that only those who are allowed to pass these keys are foreign workers. They get to leave their risks in the hands of the Icelanders and the Icelandic State and go out with their money.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u4	V.E.G. President. When I began preparing for yesterday to give this public talk today, I covered some talks I gave in the campaign in 2013. I talked about the insurance policy at every meeting and how important it would be for the country's home to be taken away from consumer loans. That was my conviction then, and that is my conviction today. In fact, the media held several meetings that specifically dealt with the insurance and its delinquency. They were well attended, and the advance party won a wonderful election. Our focus in the fight was primarily the correction of the mutant housing bar and the removal of insurance insurance on consumer loans. So all I can do is interpret our victory in the campaign as support for many Icelanders in this campaign. According to the conclusion of the last category of the advance party, the candidates want insurance on consumer loans to be taken away. Then, by permission of the president, the government covenant stated: The consumer loans and reorganisation of the Homlock market will be organized in the first days of a new government and will be replaced before the next year. That government policy was followed by a judicial decree in June 2013. The group was formed and returned a smaller and majority aluminium party. They disputed the best way to go, but they agreed on the goal, i.e. ... thatyou can cancel your insurance policy. A respectable president. The government's plan has continued so far. Our time has not passed, but it will if we do not keep our cards in good condition for weeks and months. Now the project is at the highest level. Secretary of finance, I trust he will do well and look forward to seeing the bill when it appears to us.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u5	A respectable president. Now that the season is half over, it is important to keep the promise of national payment on the dribbling of Iceland's application into the European Union. The possible involvement in the relationship, the currency alliance, is undoubtedly the nation's largest and most important interests for decades. Putting the application on ice will delay for many years to achieve the choice of the country of currency and money. Iceland's lot must continue to be passengers in Europe's cooperation with other countries through the EEA Convention and all the non-violence induction of the ships with no influence and democratic access to litigation and legislation or potential for the uptake of euro or connection to euro. The future will be postponed, and if you look at it, you will wait until the next election to make a decision to complete your talks on Iceland's involvement in the European Union and take the contract as national law. The future will be delayed for many years, and the big issue is still unsolved. The best thing to do is to let the democracy do it, and there is every reason to use this opportunity here at the General Assembly and challenge the U.S.R. to promote the matter by giving a national hearing fee. It has been pointedly stated in surveys that much more is involved in completing Memberal discussions and completing a national contract. It is wrong for the General to take counsel from the public who obviously want to see the results of their discussions and vote for the future of the country when available. Pálsson, a former prime minister, recently called attention to the unacceptable facilities available between ordinary workers and many non - Israelite companies who make up foreign coins and have access to capitals of much lower terms. The largest interest in Icelandic households is access to the same farms, consistently low interest rates without insurance. [[The president calls.]] Let us settle the matter with the nation's direct attention to the continuation of conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u6	Mr. President. On April 1, I was last invited to a meeting on the part of the government. That morning, however, I read on the front page of the magazine that governments had decided on specific matters, such as building a local language. On that day, the meeting was tried to discuss what I had already read. Yesterday, I received an invitation to attend a meeting of the release of a demon, and then I turned on the radio this morning, as a woman does. There was Sigmar Guðmundsson, a radioman who told me that I was going to a meeting that Glitnis's demanding crews wanted to deposit Iceland banks as part of their stability. I only thank Sigmar Guðmundsson for the discussion, for it certainly wasn't the government that had any consultation, although this was long called after a meeting in the Commission on Emissions, both from the Hall of Congress and from letters from the chairman of the government groups. Then there was no reason to call for such a meeting until, in reality, everything that had to be said on the news had already been published. To this, I make a significant observation, Mr. President. This government, which has taught itself in cooperation and consultation, seems completely incapable of actually practicing it and has usually issued a press release on what should be discussed before the meetings are held. Now, however, we need to review the situation in the stability process. I would like to use this opportunity here and remind you as representatives of the smaller economic and commercial sector pointed out that these issues were handled in spring, when there were both ways in which stability taxes or insituities and insurrection agreements were handled, that the defect with the latter course is precisely a lack of transparency. Therefore, it should be the ambition of the government to ensure that this will be the most opening up and the most beneficial discussion so that the public in the country can understand what this is all about. This is at stake with huge interests that will become the interests of the entire country. [[The president calls.]] My name is for everybody. Councilmen that they take the time to learn what these proposals are for stability now so that this will truly be an informed decision for the public of the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u7	A respectable president. Glitnis's proposal to return the stocks in the bank makes it clear that the food of foreign requirements means that the stable tax is legitimate and maintains. Then we must ask: Why, then, should hundreds of billions of demands be paid from the stable tax? It is clear that the stable tax will not only deliver much higher money than the agreements the government has been making against the demands. And since it is the estimate of the demands, and they present one bid after another in an effort to obtain a discount from this stable tax, we must also ask, Why give discounts on banks other than Glits? Thus, the fragmentation regime of the old Land Bank shows that the stable tax that is to be paid to the volume of 146 billion is to be paid. That's what they say on August 5th. On October 2, U.S.R., the state radio in its news has the authority to suggest that the breakup regime has contributed 14 billion in stability. A respectable president. Does this mean that stretchers should receive 90% off from the stable tax? Or should the council crews keep the shares in Arion's bank? We say again and again that this is the subject of information and assembly and nation to explain what is being handled here in the back rooms and what material reasoning is for providing the big discount on the stable tax that is obviously being worked on, especially when it is clearly viewed as the food of the foreign requirements, as well as the proposal for overnight, that the stable tax should be kept, and therefore, with all means they try to obtain from him a discount. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u8	Mr. President. There is now more than a complete disintegration of the government and its axis with demands behind closed doors - which is revealed in some findings on the Ministry of finance website at the time. Four o'clock at night, like this, highlighting how close this is -- which is causing concern at this time and questions about where Iceland is going. I wonder if there's quite a bad taste in the mouth of men after the sale of Arion's bank in the stock market in Shimanium for their good friends. Doesn't that remind you of things we didn't think should be repeated in Iceland? And what's on the news now? That the pension fund sells nearly tens of billions of assets with no advertisements, without anyone else having a chance to offer them, and who's under and over and around? He's not just on the whole side of the table, he's on top of it and under it too. It's Anion Bank. Anion bank has a share in the seller. Anion bank has a share in the buyer. Anion bank, or his corporate adviser, financed the sale and Aion bank. Will it be more perfect than this? And I have to say, just as it is, one's got the creeps in which this situation is going. This is no better than 2007-synthesis, which is falling behind us on a full voyage, and the government is there, with its practices behind closed doors, leaving there for those men who probably had the largest word of all in the Republic's history on the importance of transparency here in this hall during the last term. If there's something like this that really makes us think about them, then it's not too much later for us to separate business banking and investment banking. The banks, or Anion Bank in this case, are abusing the ability to land with both the property and the holdings that they have in their hands, to run business advice, and to be such a businessman, and to finance this kind of business. This is truly annoying, and the government is now on hand to do something about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u9	A respectable president. Transport includes health, education, welfare, employment, environment, culture, and this is how we might continue. For the same reason, public transport is important, part of ensuring social justice across the country and the development of communities, such as the building up of tourism. But what is the policy in these matters? In 2012, development projects began in public transportation. The Parliament made a deal with the National Continental Association on the development of services with a specific financial support and on the way to receive certain special releases from the Road Building. Sadly, since contracts were made, there has been a prerequisite failure, since reimbursement of oil charge for public transport has been dropped into steps and patents, the private right to drive on certain routes has not been held in court. This has led to the collection of the national part of the rural community on the basis of the project or to the cessation of the development without developing a whole system. In retrospect, it appears that the criteria set out in the State for the division of capital or the definition of the minimum service criteria have not been initialized. While it is wise to hide local inhabitants in each area to oversee public transportation on land, we must have a full view of the work. For example, is it a priority to associate land, air, and sea transport with one another? Or do we want to set some minimum standards, such as that it is possible to get around the country by means of public transportation that cannot be done today? Is by integrating with other services an inexpensive search for less solutions? Do we want to set some environmental goals? To continue the project, we must at least set goals, ensure that the environment supports the service, and set the budget for the distribution of funds to the project in accordance with our goals.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u10	Mr. President. In view of reports of the affairs of refugees and refugees in the last days, I feel compelled to discuss the foreign - language organization in this field. A news story appeared yesterday, saying, with president's permission: The Director of the National Institutes of Iceland says that the decision to provide Albanian, on the other hand, is not going to be a home in this country. It is not necessary to revise decisions based on law established by the Council. This must be considered a strange statement. It is now well - known that the decision of the National Institute of Iceland and its first conclusions on independence are changed. V.E.G. The Minister of State has made it clear from the General's symposium that refugees are not guaranteed to return to Greece, and it is incredibly petty, the interpretation of the National Institute of Iceland to indicate that because the Syrian family has returned to Greece, it is acceptable to send it back. We all know what the situation is in Greece now. Then the chairman of the General Board has, what? paritaprevir Unnur Konráðsdóttir Konásdótttir, who said that he believed only that the matter would be examined. The question arises: Is the Foreign Institute simply deliberately challenging the Supreme Court? Ministers and elected representatives and somehow try to prove that they are in charge in this regard. I believe that there is good reason for the Council to address these surprising claims by the head of the Foreign Institute of Iceland to see if it is not necessary to resupply the Agency and change the work programme that exists there.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u11	A respectable president. I'd like to direct the discussion only away from stable taxation and banking and to come to another important matter, a health care unit. The need for them has increased tremendously over the past few years. As we all know, the average age of the nation is rising rapidly. Thus, it is important to respond as soon as possible and already have been built as a nursing home in many parts of the country, but the need is still great and is highest in Aarnes County and the capital area. According to the figures I got from the Board of Education and Health before the weekend, there are 18 people waiting for nurses in Aarnes County, two are waiting for shelters, and 29 people are waiting for rest. So there is a great need for space. What may be most interesting in these numbers is a large number of individuals waiting to enter a resting - place. In each year, only five rest periods are defined, and there are only seven of them in the whole medical field, of which there is no room for resuscitation. It is important to note that nursing is an expensive means of care, so it is important to look for ways to improve support services that can help people stay at home and save for the community, except for people who feel much better at home than in institutions. So large - scale home care needs to be considered at urban values, supporting and encouraging rural society to provide social services at night and on weekends. There is a need to increase the number of Sabbaths and to provide room recovery. I believe that by doing so, we could greatly reduce the growing need for medical care throughout the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u12	V.E.G. President. I'm going to start my speech by reading a brief text from the Government Treaty of the Ministry of Propulsion and Independence Party, which says, by permission of the President: ▪ It is important that judicial cases and other conflicts involving individual and business debt receive as rapidly as possible treatment. Uncertainty of the borrower's status against loan institutions must be stopped. At the 2013 summer convention, a ten - team resolution was adopted, which became the debt problem of the Icelandic home due to the collapse of the autumn of 2008. The fifth point of the proposal means that prompt treatment of judicial cases related to domestic debt issues and having to deal with the legal issue of binding property with the interests of foreign currency or index. The bill of this material was adopted at the 2013 summer Summit. What I want to reflect on with this discussion is what causes, for example. For more than three years now, domestic interests have had to stand on lawsuits because of legal insurance. What causes the matter to fail to receive prompt treatment? This big case has taken way too long. Then I come to the next subject of my decommissioned insurance speech. The sixth point of the proposal adopted at the 2013 Summer Summit includes setting up an expert team for decommissioning insurance from consumer loans. The proposed and timed schedule is established at the end of 2013. The government appointed a team of experts, who produced suggestions and were given a majority opinion and opinion. There was a debate about the best course of action, but everyone agreed on the goal, i.e. disintegration insurance. Now, the insurance business is on the table at the highest. Financial and economic ministers. Now we need to know what the next step should be, and it is important that they be dated in the next few days.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u13	V.E.G. President. I've been in the National Church most of my life, thinking that the church is one of the cornerstones of the society we live in. That is why it has made me very sad over the past few weeks to hear that there are a group of people whom the church does not welcome as well as others who use so - called freedom of conscience. There I am discussing homosexual couples, which several clergymen of the National Church have taken a permit to refuse to marry together in holy marriages. Church ministers are not merely church ministers; they are government officials. It is contrary to both constitution and administrative law to discrimination in government practices. I think it's a good idea here that the other day in an article after a fine deputy of the green left Andrés Ingi Jónsson, as he reviewed this case. Now, according to some polls, it seems that this is a very small number of clergymen who do not rely on marriage mates. So I refer to the Bishop, the prayer and wish, that if it is so that these fine priests do not trust them to fulfill these conditions, they will simply find another place for themselves. I think it would also be good for them to read verses 40 from Matthew chapter 25 by permission of the president: Verily I say unto you, That whatsoever ye did unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye did it unto me.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u14	President. In a national vote for the proposal of the Council of Government on October 20, 2012, 73,408 people, or about two thirds of those who chose, voted by a bill of government law were proposed to establish a new constitution. There is a higher proportion of votes than the current government has for its administration. Among other things, in Pirata's basic policy, is written, by permission of presidents: To participate in a democratic society, it is a legal right of individuals. Those who choose not to give up their authority of choice. Thus, the number of subjects is less important than the relative result in elections. There is no doubt that if more people were to participate, the relative outcome would be the same. Therefore, the conclusion of the election on October 20 is clear, and it is my personal opinion that any changes made in the bill of the Constitution - in view of the high proportion of voters who agreed to present it to the core - or its individual articles, must be chosen as an option against the original text of the bill for a new constitution. For example, if a council wants to add to its main thresholds, voters must be allowed to decide whether or not they want to change. In the 20th October National Bank on whether a constitution should include a provision for appeal to the nation, there is no threshold for involvement. And if the resource directive is to be said in a way other than the board's proposal that a new constitution must be given the opportunity to reject these changes. You see, options are important, questions must be clear, and there must be clear and clear information about the outcome for each subject, of or on, before the election, so that we do not have to experience an interpretation of the results of the election. Let us therefore respect the process made and allow the nation to rule.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u15	A respectable president. Lately there have been more news on economic issues, banks, personal interest in banks, bank ownership, strikes, inflation, insurance, as well as insurance. Residents are talking more and more about this, especially with the highest order. Secretary of finance, probably because they want these matters back on the surface and discuss them fully. I must say for myself that as I think more of these matters, and as I experience more in the matter of these matters, I always come to the same conclusion that a dollar is basically a faulty currency in the sense that he's a tiny economy that can't hold on to such a small currency without a very serious advantage we know from decades of experience such as the highest degree. A financial minister correctly pointed out the other day. It is not merely that a dollar generates instability; it moves forward; it makes needed all sorts of unpleasant tools. I don't know a more polite word to say about it, a respectable president, a certain piece of shit like insurance that afflicts our community and is among the most controversial issues of the day, and rightly. It contains another lesson that is that a dollar complicates things. It makes it a relatively indiscreet economic theories - I say relatively, in a certain irony - that is not correct here. We can't use classical economics here to predict what happens, for example, at the elevation of the sectoral growth of the UN Bank, i.e. when the dollar is not in the head. The crown makes it necessary for us to think in seas and insurance and some voodoo cashiers that have an impact we don't know in advance. This is the experience of the collapse in my opinion. No matter how much we feel about the European Union, we have to deal with the problem of $1.9. If they are determined to hold on to it, they are responsible to explain exactly how they will do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u16	V.E.G. President. When considering many issues that have come from the General Assembly, the conduct of various institutions can also be considered, e.g. A number of foreign agencies indicate that there is insufficient voice in the case of government and of the Generals. Of course, the first thing to do is that governments and councils are better equipped to get immigrants'voices to the table. There are also other things that can be done and can be done there, e.g. watch the immigrants'social and stakeholders. Here in Iceland, we have 34 immigrant social and stakeholders. These are the communities of people of certain backgrounds, the communities of people who speak a certain language, the organizations that work on specific goals, e.g. Mother's lesson. It's a lot of fools, a lot of good work that's going on there. An organization, such as Project Polska and the Association of Women of Foreign descent and many other good societies, can be identified. As an example of a good project in one such organization, on the website of Project Polska, a Polish - born group of people, there is a button that can be pressed and announced if people have experienced discrimination, poor manners, or bad things. That's where the people are provided with counselling and the possible actions to take. It's all a very good and important job. But in Iceland, unlike most of the countries we compare ourselves to, we are not active today on the global interest and interest network of immigrants. Such an organization could play a vital role when it comes to government policies and practices. You can, for example. Imagine that such an organization could be an extremely important source of information here at the General Assembly, where other organizations have access very easily. [[The president calls.]] So I call for such an organization to be established and urged to finance such an organization in its own time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u17	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to a new overall layer of surrogacy, for the benefit of surrogacy. On January 18, 2012, at the General Assembly of Congress, a resolution on surrogacy was adopted. The General concluded that the Minister of Health was to appoint a task force to prepare a bill as a home of surrogacy for the sake of well - being. The bill presented here is made up of a group of members appointed in September 2012, in accordance with the above church resolution. The bill was submitted to the last legislature but could not succeed. During the preparation of the bill, the task force sought to test the objectives of the Generals as they appear in the synopsis and its legal data, along with the implementation of local standards in the best interests of the Icelandic legal environment. The service group consulted data and information from a wide variety of sources, received visitors, and arranged for a meeting of norse specialists on surrogates. The staff introduced the bill films to meetings with stakeholders and to the World Health Committee. He also had an open discussion procedure at my request at the end of 2014. A verbal report on the subject was also given last January at the General Assembly. The objective of the bill is to contribute to the careful implementation of surrogate services in order to ensure the benefit and right of a child born from a surrogacy, right, autonomy, and the well - being of a surrogate mother and her family, and the success of future parents. According to the bill, there is a surrogate approach when assisted reproduction techniques are carried out in a surrogate mother who has agreed to walk with her child for certain prospective parents, while she intends to give her child a future parent after his birth, and the prospective parents have made a commitment to apply for parental transfer. A special surrogate committee is proposed to be set up for a good use, which serves to provide permission for local transportation. According to the bill, there may be no rights for a more favorable approach unless it is shown that the results and circumstances of the surrogate and her partner and prospective parents indicate that mental and physical health, financial status, and social status of all are good and that the child who makes it possible to live under developmental conditions. For good reasons, a committee of surrogate services has been designed to determine whether a child's interests are guaranteed and all the conditions of surrogacy are met in a sense of well - being. The Commission also has the responsibility to ensure that those applying for local access have access to professional advice from specialists, such as lawyers and social professionals or psychiatrists, but in the bill it is assumed that candidates will be obliged to seek advice before granting permission for local transportation where they will be provided with detailed information on the medical, ethical, and social effects that might be obtained by a surrogate. The committee also has the responsibility to determine the parental status of a child born in line with a foreign law on surrogacy. It is assumed that when it comes to bringing a child or bringing him to a land born under a foreign law on surrogacy, a case would be referred to the local church committee for a good parental decision. The bill presents specific conditions that a surrogate mother and her spouse and the prospective parents must meet in order to obtain permission for a benefit from local transportation. The requirement for a surrogate and after her partner's experiences is that a surrogate mother and her partner are subject to a legal agreement, a surrogate not having a legal home, and that they have stayed on the country for the last five years before applying and that they have permission or other authority for permanent living. To cope with the pressures of localization, the pregnancy, and the birth of a child, a mother needs mental and physical performance and adequate health. She should be in her early 20's, with her normal pregnancy and birth at least one child, and with a minimum of two years from her birth. Hence, a local mother and her mate must not be a sister or a brother or relative directly related to a parent who suggests the sex cell. If a surrogate mother or her partner has lost a child, it should have been at least two years since the death of the child. In the bill, prospective parents are expected to be married men and women with at least three years of living together. Future parents need to be legal, have a legal home in Iceland, and have had a continuous legal stay here in the country for the last five years before application. It is required that they have a permit or other authority for permanent living. A consent and commitment should be made to apply for a parental transfer, a prospective parent should be in the age of 25 to 45 years, and a child should not be kept under the age of two. It is also a requirement that prospective parents cannot cope for medical reasons with the pressures of pregnancy and the birth of a baby or for biological reasons that pregnancy is excluded. Single people may be allowed to have local transportation, if specifically and unequivocally indicates that their child's interests are guaranteed and medically or biologically excluded from pregnancy. The bill assumes that the woman who gives birth to a child is the mother and is in accordance with Generalis's will not to interfere with the basic understanding of the law of motherhood, as is shown in the law of exposés with Congress resolution of surrogacy. So the bill expects a surrogate mother to become the mother of a child, and her partner to be the father or parent of a child from its birth until parenthood transfers. According to the bill, the parenthood position of a child is passed by a businessman or courts at first two months after the birth of a child. In general, the transfer is expected to become valid when verifying the businessman. It is assumed that cases and cases where people refuse to accept a transfer to parental status will be resolved at court. If so, then, a judge would want to lay the basis for the outcome that is best for a child. If a parenthood transfer is agreed, the child will be born from the same court with prospective parents and their relatives as if it were their own child, and from the same time, the law will fall down with her and her spouse. According to the bill, a child is guaranteed the right to know his origin in the wake of a surrogate barrier. It is the parents'duty to inform a child no later than it becomes six years old to be born as a surrogate mother. The child may request access to the conduct of localisations at the age of 16. From which sex cells come and information about sex cell donors. The bill suggests changes in assisted reproductive technology laws, which are expected to eliminate anonymous sex - cell donors. It is time to make these adjustments in accordance with the United Nations Convention on Child Rights, which was legalized here by law No. 19/2013 and guarantees children the right to know their origin. The bill forbids local transportation, which is contrary to the goals and conditions of the law and thereby forbids surrogacy for profit. However, expectant parents must be allowed to repay a surrogate for the cost directly related to the application procedure, in vitro fertilisation, pregnancy, or the birth of a baby. The bill also suggests that the search for or arrangements in this country are not to be undertaken in the countries that do not meet the requirements of the law. The bill suggests changes in other laws needed to be a surrogate barrier for the well - being of the bill. Changes must be made to seven layers, i.e. the law of children, the law on birth and parent code, the technical legislation, the national and public registration laws, the human names, genetics and the law on Icelandic citizen's rights. A respectable president. The bill is now presented in accordance with Generalis's conclusion on surrogacy from January 18, 2012. The bill emphasizes that for the first time the child's interests and rights are guaranteed, secondly, right, self - control and the well - being of the surrogate mother and her family, and third, the success of the prospective parents. I have now explained the principles of the bill and have allowed me to suggest that it be referred to. The welfare committee and the 2nd Environment Committee. as a discussion about it ends here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u18	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Pre-historic minister. In a short answer, a man doesn't come in much, but I'd like to ask a minister in particular to chapter 6. which deals with a committee on surrogacy for a good reason. A lawyer who is supposed to be chairman of the Committee is to be a doctor and then a psychologist or social worker. It amazed me, in view of social, ethical, and medical evaluations, why a lawyer was brought to lead the committee, not a psychiatrist, to form. So I want to ask about that point. I'd like to ask about 33. which must be prohibited from looking for or taking steps in this country to use surrogates in foreign countries that do not meet the requirements of these laws. Then there's the penalty, I don't know exactly how to do it. I'm not going to do it here, but I'm going to ask: If someone has sought a surrogate in a foreign country that is considered illegal according to this legislation, does the relevant transfer of parental status to the Committee even though he has been found guilty of criminal activity?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u19	A respectable president. First of all, it's about what it's like. A senator makes a subject here, about the commission of the Committee, which in itself I can accept as a matter of course. A senator makes such a point. They are perfectly normal and understandable and are actually in my mind reason for the committee to discuss in their actions on the bill. I hereby declare that I can totally agree with those views. I took the option to present the bill in this picture, as it comes from the working group, with no tendency at all. The other point, which means to ask why. A senator of about 33. Gr., it is also very understandable in itself because it is quite complicated. Today's situation is that surrogates are not allowed in this country. The bill assumes that it will be permitted to perform surrogacy in a sense of well - being, and the Commission for a good conduct has the authority to confirm and make changes in the parental status of children, if this is done in the production of Icelandic law. They're opening up the door and paying the way for children who come into existence in this way. On the other hand, if the committee finds that locality does not meet Icelandic law, I assume it has no choice but to deny a change of parental status there and that case will be passed before court. That would be the way I could see this going.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u20	V.E.G. President. Thanks for the answer. There will continue to be great uncertainty about children from abroad, obviously. But as for her committee and management, it stabbed me right away when I read the bill that a lawyer should lead this committee. But when I read down in the article and saw that the role of the committee was also to determine the parenthood of a child who is born in line with a foreign law on local transportation, according to 26. ... thentwo masks began to fall on me. Then I wondered that perhaps it was really so that it should be the main project of the committee to deal with these situations. Because I'm a great opponent of this case, I don't like how the bill seems to make other threads around solving the tremendous moral problems and the problems that arise for the children who come into existence under these circumstances. V.E.G. A minister was a good judge of how this matter came about. This is a matter of Congress, which was then adopted here at the General and sent to the minister to contribute. This is a controversial subject involving deeply moral questions. So I wanted to ask if a minister would back it up.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u21	A respectable president. I don't think it's as if the bill's introduction is that the main mission of a judicial committee on surrogacy is to work in this foreign part of the country. I think the setup is much closer to making the best preparation and implementation of a system of conduct for good and for the best possible purpose, and then to follow through. That's how I understand the committee's main project. Another factor that falls outside the task area of the Committee, which leads to a failure to meet the Icelandic court order, is a direct route to the courts. When it is claimed here that this matter is in some way growing in the way that it is difficult to accept the fact that it is difficult to perceive in the council, which I understand well and understand, I would like to stress that the case is being worked very closely according to the pretext that the synopsis predicted. I believe that the group of people and all the work involved in this case have been placed in a very good position and the formula the council provided for them. When asked if I am a follower of this case, I will answer yes, I am accompanied by legislation on the provision of a surrogate in this country. In terms of whether this is the right conclusion, I'm not stating that this is the only proper approach. I have full confidence in the council to make needed changes to the bill presented here, and I do not have a presupposed opinion on the outcome of the welfare committee that enters the council for release. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But I reiterate that I am a very strict spokesman for developing legislation on these topics in Iceland. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u22	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you very much. Minister of health for the tour earlier. I'd like to be a little in the same address as the highest. Ministers and make clear how important it is for us Icelanders to set standards of surrogacy, especially for children who are born with a foreign surrogate. In our work at the General Assembly, we often get on board our own affairs about children who will be created by a foreign surrogate, coming from countries and countries where there is a law on this and that is allowed. The power of a foreign country helps parents or the surrogate mother to tell her about the child, and she has no right to give her baby any longer, and then the new parents take their child home. When it comes here, the children are really out of the air, for they have no legal connections with the place longer or the mother. I think it is very important that we examine this factor and whether it can be worked together or more emphasised on that point. We cannot ban local deportation, but we must be prepared to address the arrival of these children in some way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u23	V.E.G. President. We're here discussing a bill to correct a surrogate approach for a benefit. First, I'd like to say that we have laws on surrogacy, it's banned in Iceland. This is clearly stated in the legislation on assisted reproduction techniques. I would have liked to see in this work how we deal with people in an illegal way, moving abroad, instead of legalizing it here. There's a big case underneath here. Here's a whole child underneath, here's our moral approach to the gift of fathering a child and how we're going to treat it. This is for people who cannot have children for some reason, and there are deep feelings on both sides. Here are people who are totally in favor of the case, people who are totally opposed to the case, and people who want to look at it from other sides. It is a big bill, and a great deal of work is behind it by means of a well - directed tour, these 92 pages. I've read it all over, but I've admitted that I'll read it even better in the next few days when we get it covered on a welfare committee. Reading this subject raises very big questions. One of them is the one I'm going to take here as an example. It involves when prospective parents commit, signing a document that they commit to apply for parental application in accordance with the requirements of child law, which we are also changing here. In a report on Article 9. The bill on this says, by permission of the President: ▪ The commitment of prospective parents to apply the translocation of their child's parental status is important to try to avoid situations that arise that no one wants to care for a mother and mother. This commitment is morally, not legally, and is a stricter requirement to prospective parents than to a surrogate who does not have to make a commitment to give to a child she gives birth, since it is prospective parents who initiate the surrogate process. So there is a moral obligation rather than a legal obligation, and how to resolve all the many issues that may arise in regard to the birth of a child is very unclear. Everyone knows that childbearing, pregnancy, and parenthood are involved in very complex things, spiritual and social factors, as well as physical or physical effects on the mother. Thereafter, children may experience some consequences. Actually, we're setting up legislation on a whole child, but it looks like everything is supposed to be open. We are there with an uncertain area, and we can imagine that it may be those children who need a lot of care and affection for parents who land in this worthless land. What a thrill it will be to discuss how we will handle it! I used, for example, one of the questions that have already arisen in me and that do not arouse in me good emotions, to put it mildly. I would have thought it normal that we were just steadfast in our legislation. Childlessness is a serious matter, and we lawgivers have tried to find ways to help children have children with ARTs, in vitro fertilisers, adoptions, and so on. Well, then we'd have to go over it. They need money, and they need more work. I think it would be possible to unite about it, I think we would be ready to go in it with full force. But we have the problem that this is where parents bring children who are conceived abroad, that is, those cases that have come before courts. This discussion is a matter of how we as a community are going to cope with it. Four articles discuss children and parents from abroad. It's in 6. on a four - year - old committee of surrogate services, which receives enormous power. There is a lawyer leading the committee, and there will be a very legal assessment of national legislation regarding local administration. In India, for example, there is no law code, but it is allowed if it is for profit. I guess that wouldn't fit in here, because it's in total opposition to Iceland and it's done well in the report how different countries manage it. There are many ways in which the arrangement is set, and there is no consistent policy. So there is a very complex legal question. So the question is, Can a committee like this have such a different and two - part role, since these are entirely separate assignments? Twenty-six. discusses the parenthood of a child born under a foreign law on permanence. It explains how the committee should state that if she refuses a parental status, she should inform the child of the child's circumstances in a district where the child is staying. We may not accept them a changed parental status or transfer of parental status by law in other countries. Then the child has parents somewhere else, and it needs to be determined whether to send the baby back or to bring it to an unborn child and adopt someone else in Iceland. It is an assignment to handle the committee, the doctor, the psychologist, or the sociologist, and the lawyer who leads the committee. Thirty-three. is then spoken of surrogacy over cross-border. It is not permitted to take steps in this country to take advantage of a surrogate in a foreign country that does not meet the requirements of these laws and that it is forbidden to have been introduced here in a foreign country through a foreign passage. Then you've crossed the penalty frame, which can be a fine from 500 you. K. Up to three years in prison, according to Article 34. Then we're also changing the Civil Rights Act. If the committee allows a parental transfer, children in Iceland are the second parent or both parents in Iceland. The bill has a good point on this subject. I have to say to my share that I feel that these two separate issues are not clearly addressed to the problem that we are facing right now, but we have a large set of legislation on how we are going to provide a more generous standard of living. We'll have the case with the Committee. I suppose there are differences in viewpoints, and we will treat the matter with the same professionalism and other matters that we receive on the committee. But it is obvious that there will be many reports and much discussion about the matter. I just wanted to come up with the factors that concern the situation abroad, and I didn't come into other people's houses. I made it clear that what happens to a child is unclear, since prospective parents do not accept their moral commitment. The number of such questions arises as you read this bill. I want a body of Congress to realize that if the bill becomes a law, we are offering some young women an invitation to answer the question of people they care about and are close to and even known for the rest of their lives: Do you want to bring a child for me? I am now in my old age that I will positively never have to answer that question. I hope we don't put Icelandic women in the position of having to answer that question. I'm not going to do any further on this subject until 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u24	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's talk and trusted her completely to take this to the committee and discuss it there. I want to take advantage of this opportunity and try to understand it as fast as possible. A senator went over and on her opinion of the subject, e.g. in regard to what is found in Icelandic law and morality, which is often mentioned in this context, to form in terms of the assistance available today. If a woman has a uterus in her womb, she can have a donor egg, and even a sperm from an unknown person, to have it fertilized, but if a woman has a damaged uterus and an egg is okay, she cannot get help, e.g. by freezing your own eggs for future use. Then there is where moral values really go. So it's okay for a woman to get a donor egg from another woman and have a biological child as long as she keeps it. It's in the law today. But as soon as she was about to bring her child's biological mother, he has become a violation of the law and perhaps the potentially high moral code. What does it look like? A senator of this difference? Where should a divorce be? This is what we're talking about. So I'd like to reiterate that in this bill, there's talk of a complete march, not of this traditional locality, i.e. a full surrogate pregnancy by means of in vitro fertilisation and the eggs of a prospective mother is fertilized with the seed of a prospective father. However, using the couple's sex cells does not give them a right to the body of the surrogate mother or to the baby born.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u25	V.E.G. President. These were big questions. Regarding a complete standard, what if a woman carried a child who is not her eggs and obviously not her sperms? I have read articles that however, there is a biological child of this woman in some way, since blood exchange and all that happens while the baby is growing in the womb has DNA from the mother who carried it. But this is where I'm on a stage that's not my field of expertise. When it comes to questions about exactly where we're going to draw the line, I'm not absolutely convinced where to draw them because it's always complicated. I believe we should review that in Iceland homes of donor eggs and donor seeds without knowing where they came from, but the law says that children have the right to know their origin. Some children do not do this according to the fact that something is causing it. We cannot legally take this right from children, but we also know that it will become harder to receive a donor seed under these circumstances. However, there are sperm banks where children can be told who their father is at 18 years of age, but they have no legal obligations on the subject. I do not fully answer the questions, but we must always look for the interests of the mother, and the child is, of course, the top priority in this matter. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u26	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the record. That's exactly what I came in on, i.e. Help available today. How should we, the legislative authority, decide to help one person rather than another, to help the woman who has a uterus and who is able to obtain a donor, not one who is not at home, but has an egg? What's the difference? When should moral things be considered in the process? Even if a woman wishes to use a donor egg from another woman, her child, despite blood exchange and other factors, will have a biological bearing. A senator came in, who I don't quite know, but it can be true, so she needs to describe herself to a pregnant mother as soon as she gives the baby to her biological mother. People are going so far in this business, and we see examples of this. Counts 'em out. A senator says that this can be discussed in the Committee as soon as the whole bill will be discussed?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u27	V.E.G. President. Yeah, I think that's normal. I'm absolutely convinced, and I'll make sure that comes up for discussion. But then there are things in human society. There are some things that you can meet; otherwise you may not be able to meet. It is not that although it is possible to meet one group, we must meet all groups. But we should seek to find ways, as when it comes to childlessness, so there is a general desire to find a way. I think it's hard to find someone who's not ready to find ways to make it easier. Then we come to the question, How moral defender is going a long way in this regard? I took here an example of a donor egg and a donor seed whose name is absolute, and a child is prevented by the law of searching for its source. That's what makes me feel like a lot of energy. It went through the council in its own time. It was very controversial, and we who have legalized the United Nations Children's Covenant should, in fact, revise that law. That's why I don't trust myself, especially in this part of the discussion, in order to draw a line that says where we can go and where we can't go. It is important that we exercise caution in these matters. What many fear is that by setting this country's legislation, the pressures and the demand for children to be drawn to other places, even where local transportation is really a gross industry where children are protected. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u28	President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I stopped at the committee for the sake of surrogacy, even as it were. A senator had a word about the minister here with the story, and he pondered its role. Now it appears to be a twofold, as it is stated here, and whisk. A senator wondered if the design was natural. If you look at these projects a little more carefully, they're so different that tools are about it in my opinion. I think it's something the committee needs to consider. I hope this case will never be resolved from the Council, to say so. We are referring, on the one hand, to the fact that the Committee grants permission for a good standing, it is a national issue under the law, that those applying for a professional advisory, etc. so that everything will be done as best we can. But then it's a huge project, this huge project on which the entire globe is on, when it comes to evaluating parents and determining the status of a child born in accordance with some foreign laws on surrogacy, according to 26. ..... evaluating whether they fall into the law here and then moving the case forward. If the law does not fall, the child in that area needs to be informed by the child that there is an angry child, and then on a child - welfare committee, to decide what options to take into account whether or not the child is secure in this country. [[The president calls.]] I'm just asking, a respectable president, asking why. Senator: Isn't it here creating a completely new problem that these laws don't handle?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u29	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for the answer. It's a three-man committee - with a doctor and a psychologist or a social worker, who I think is very comfortable at home there; I would also want to see her ethics and this one lawyer - and they're supposed to have access to expert advice. They are dealing with very different assignments and, in effect, related tasks unless both have a surrogate approach. These two roles, however, differ enormously. I would have liked to see unchanged legislation here, but a approach to how we deal with the fact that this is a case with children conceived abroad by a surrogate mother. They're making some kind of law, but it's not clear in any way, because it's no different from today. If the committee said: 'Yes, this child is conceived abroad, and there were all other laws, there are no laws, and there can be done for profit, as in India, where there is a terrible situation in this case, and we are not going to authorize this transfer on parenthood, it goes to courts just as it is today. It's not being changed in any way. What should have been a major project is left largely unsolved.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u30	President. Thank you. The senator's answer. This is something the committee will take a closer look at. It is obvious that, if the legislation succeeds in meeting the current bill, the definition of what is considered a global rule in Iceland is expanding. There is some way that a general rule applies to local passage, i.e. Icelandic legislation embraces a surrogate in its arms, but it wants to evaluate the occurrences of the law and who does not. In the situation as it is today, the universal rule of Iceland's people is that surrogateism is simply not allowed, it is not considered. You have wondered, " Do I simply not have this tendency to increase the number of problems instead of reducing them? ' I agree with it. One senator says, there is good reason to control it in some way in Icelandic legislation how to deal with such situations. Now it is at the hands of Iceland's National and Foreign Institutes to take sides on government and housing and the like, and it is Roman in many ways that the law has to be prepared and that it needs to be considered in particular. But that princely finger, i.e. By the time localization has become recognized by Icelandic legislation, we are getting closer because it is considered acceptable to a husband or a couple to reach their own goals by using a person's body to do so. Then, as mentioned earlier, it has become a matter of valuation and a gray area. I wish the Chairmans well enough to get to the bottom of this, but I don't feel that this bill is a failure to simplify it in any way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u31	V.E.G. President. Yes, that's exactly right, it's actually being extended to bring children back to the country. Here's a chapter going over this, the difference between countries. I've mentioned India, but in Ukraine, in a state now in great trouble - there's a lot of trouble in Ukraine -- there's a world's standard walk-by, and there's no such thing. The child's prospective parents are registered by birth certificate, and the child is not given Ukrainian citizenship at birth. There are no limits to payment between parties. Suppose people went to Ukraine and then came here for the committee - there is no law that is in harmony with Icelandic law, as is true of people who have been bringing children and who have gone to court. Will the committee permit this? I don't think it's obvious. For example, if she did not permit it, the child - protection authorities will find that the child's birth certificate is the best place for parents. Doesn't that mean there's a requirement, because no one's going to be able to find a surrogate in Iceland, that there's going to be room enough for parents to go before committees and courts? I'm afraid so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u32	Mr. President. I think very much about the way this case is going on. I'm kind of asking myself, "What's the seat we're here for? So it was a series of events that somehow got out of control, and then people are almost committed to walking some street that they do not necessarily have too good conviction? I ask myself when I consider how this matter has come about. This is a administrative bill, the highest level. A health minister makes a second donation based on a synonym that originally appeared in the fall of 2010. But the matter goes beyond that. In my opinion, that decree was highly flawed because it gave its conclusions in advance and set the matter in advance. Then, of course, the work and the difficult work and all that was to be done, but the conclusion was given in advance. It was to allow a surrogate approach. In this case, such a step taken in the middle of a very delicate process is not a good start in my opinion. As the executives of the bill reasonably state, in preparation for the case, there has been an attempt to test the objectives of the Generals as they appear in the Senate arrangement since January 18, 2012, at which time a re-communicative resolution was made. What was her background? Among other things, it was that this matter had already been planned and discussed, and then a minister appointed in January 2009 a team of professionals to examine ethical, legal, and medical matters regarding surrogacy and whether to allow surrogate services in Iceland should be allowed, not to be allowed either. This assigned group of professionals will come to their conclusions on a large process, open up a meeting, and bring it back on 7 June 2010. There is a key argument, that this can be a successful solution to the problem of couples or persons with infertility problems and a tenth evidence against surrogateism. They say that there is a danger of being viewed as a surrogate mother hosting a baby and that the woman is mashed into her reproductive organs. It is suggested that in view of the fact that there is no room for profit, general agreements would have been very difficult to prevent if it is allowed and that there is always the possibility that women will be oppressed to sell all of their bodies in a whole new way and at the risk of being well or better mismanage their situation against those who are neglected. This too is in effect taking children for sale. The work force reached the conclusion of June 7, 2010, of which the reference points to the above does not indicate the time for the work force to allow a surrogate at this time. This is the clear conclusion of a professional team of working men but, as early as November of that year, a group of senators submits a synonym that is contrary to the conclusion of this group. I'm sorry, but that's what the Council's going to do. On the contrary, the results of the group are still presented with a synoptic proposal to allow a surrogate approach. I think this merits some attention, a respectable president, as it is following the reimbursement accepted on January 18, 2012, which puts the matter into the direction we are now in. I believe the General should leave it to them to rewind. This is a new assembly, a new election season, and we are not bound in one way or another by the council arrangement as much as we would like. Therefore, we can come back to the conclusion that the 2010 work force was right and that situation remains largely unchanged, for the evidence that was part of it, referred to the way these cases are in other countries, all stand. The attitude of the northern nations has not changed. There is unchanged legislation in other parts of the North, a part of a very recent legislation designed to block and block up a surrogate barrier, such as Finland, which stopped 2007 into holes that were once in legislation. How much solidarity is now in this issue? The 2009 service committee pointed out, among other things, that before local surrogacy would be permitted in this country, it would be necessary, in any case, to achieve a general social reconciliation of the matter and the framework set for local administration, this would be a matter of order in order to be a problem of work and to achieve a general social reconciliation. Did they get it? Has she been in the middle of this case? No, the Parliament's committee developed a threesome. There were a wide variety of opinions on this and reviews that pleased a great many health - related professionals and social and ethically related professionals; there is no evidence that there was a solid basis for a solid agreement on this road. She hasn't been caught yet. The Parliamentary Committee split three times, and members of the Parliament split in all directions. True, much more was achieved at a council meeting before the proposal. [[Foregrounds: Naum?]] - 33 senators, yes, few more things at council, 33 instead of 32, which is less mathematical, the least possible share at the Council, at least This is what it takes for a government to function with distrust, 13 with votes in return, four without votes, five with alibi, and eight were away. You can't say that there was someone very narrow or very supportive in this case at the General Assembly. The General Assembly was completely cross-crossed in all directions. Now it's a new assembly and a new election season. This background is a lot of thought to me, Mr. President, when such a course is made. Granted, this bill has built various fences. I'm not bringing down the work of this fine group, but it has much to do, and it has many reports that he had his hands tied, and they had orders to write laws to allow surrogateism. [[Is it from the Council?]] - Yes, it is from the Council, but the Council can change their mind. The General Assembly is to reconsider their mind. The general council should never rush into anything that would be unconcerned or unconcerned. This is a serious matter, an extremely delicate matter. If there is somewhere where you really need to be careful and work together, that's what this is about. There was a special debate between certain members of Congress, and certainly both sides were warm emotions, also very much support. But it has to be told that story as it is, there are certain circumstances that were used at the council to force the release of this matter. That is a reality we know of many here who were in the field. That's all there is to it. How Iceland is prepared, in view of its background and how different opinions are on the side of the council, in the community and among the professionals, to clear up the path and take the steps the other northern nations have not trusted in, to have had this planned, and to include their professional moral advisers, etc.? However, the conclusion is that localisation is prohibited for profit in Norway, Sweden, Denmark and Finland, and elsewhere in the states of the north and abroad, it is also forbidden to conduct assisted reproductive technology according to the requirements of the legislation so that de lfacto is prohibited in all other northern countries. Although there was an opinion, and to see if there is anything to change from that course, the findings in every part of the world have been not doing so at all. Much of the moral code and of other such persons have opposed any change in these laws. They are relatively recent. The legislation forbids localization date from 1987 in Norway, 1988, Sweden, 1997, Denmark, and 2007 in Finland. In other words, Iceland would be going in a very different direction than the Norwegian states. I allow myself, with all due respect to ourselves, to question the wisdom in this case. I have no feelings of inadequacy about Iceland breaking up the path if it's a good progress case, but there's not one thing in this case and it's not. We could be getting into a lot of trouble. If we look to Europe as a whole, it would be an exception rather than a rule that a surrogacy is permitted. It is permitted in a very few countries. It is banned in most lands. I believe that some examples, such as those in Ukraine, are not particularly of particular interest to those in Greece. It does not have to go all the way to India or California to see sad experiences in these subjects. What problem is being solved, and what other means are there to cope? I don't want to minimize the misfortune of those who can't bear children. There are many advantages, such as adoptions, ARTs, and so on. The events we might be discussing here could be very few. Someone talks about 101⁄215, but others may say three or five or something like that. Then there's a bit of an attack on such delicate human rights and moral issues that women sell access to their bodies in this way. I give little for the chapters the separating of surrogates for profit or benefit. For good reason, there is a trend toward the possibility that prospective parents who accept their child will still pay for all expenses. Depending on their cost, it can be easier. How do you plan to monitor the lack of contracts under the board, e.g. Already in poor foreign countries? It is all open to the fact that Icelandic parents can take advantage of a foreign march and are about to move specific regulations about changing the law of citizens' rights to pay for it. There is much to consider. There are so many opinions, and many free ones still end up in this law, even though humans have tried to do things. For example, what does it mean that a declaration of will that humans have signed cannot be fully or fulfill? Well to mark, if I understand this correctly, this is expected to go further than anywhere else in these materials, where local transportation may be permitted, except only in India or California or somewhere where it's wide open and seen as a bisness. There's supposed to be a binding agreement between parties in advance. It's not usually gone that far elsewhere. True, it is not possible to be moved, according to this, but the figures that can arise are so numerous when something comes up, such as when the surrogate mother changes her mind, if circumstances change on either side, if illness or genetic defects are detected, etc. That's fine for what. Senators reading the section of the bill that turns to a change in child law, if I recall correctly. A number of other laws need to be changed, showing how complicated this is. In chapter V of the bill, there is a long list of tapeworms that need to be changed to a whole range of laws and end up changing the law of Icelandic citizen rights. You read 40 str. about child law changes - how often a court of opinion ends, if a parent dies, if suddenly either prospective parents do not wish to transfer their parents, there is a difference? Courts, courts, courts in one line. Is this exciting? Are they absolutely convinced that they are going on a mission that they provide at the end of it? I doubt that. But finally, a respectable president, I am opposed to this ideological and moral principle. I can't bear the fact that we share such a woman's body, and we are going to take away women from their mother's womb and life, which are somehow producing and trying to remove themselves, for they have nothing to do with what is happening there. I think it's a approach that's going to have a lot of trouble if we lay down cultural, moral, and ideological standards on this and then the other interests have to go away. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u33	V.E.G. President. I'm just trying to figure out why. Senators on this bill. In part, the synopsis states that firm laws, strict conditions, and clear rules of action are laid down. This bill aims to correct what was set out in a recent report. Then we'll discuss it. For the conditions of the surrogate mother, the rules for adoption and the legislation on reproduction techniques and the relevant regulations should be taken into account. You can read more about each condition in your bill's report. It is also strongly suggested that the situation of prospective parents should be similar to that of other children in the community, yet it should be clearly stated that a surrogate mother has full self - control during pregnancy. So we can't talk about going to women, for no agreement can take from a woman the truth of control over her own body; she decides whether she will accept certain treatments during her pregnancy; whether she will go out first in this respect; whether she will have an abortion if anything comes up; whether she will be able to pursue her own life. Controversy is not expected to be determined, since it has complete self - control. I have full faith in that. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon knows Norwegian legislation, since he only mentioned comparing it with this case. During this discussion, I would like to ask why. A senator, who speaks of some options being added in the bill, thinks that the bill was not added.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u34	Mr. President. In itself, this is not a perfectly reasonable question to a man who is not wondering whether the bill has been worked well enough to allow it, since I am opposed and if I were to believe that men have done even more loose ends in the legislation. I don't think this is the right ideological and moral thing. It doesn't matter to me entirely in this matter, in terms of my basic delinquency, whether more or fewer holes are left, more or fewer, end of the bill, but there are others. With a quick lecture on it, you see in many places that despite best efforts, ends are free. There's nothing that's going on if anything of the kind is mentioned in my case. Partial foothold, i.e. when, in fact, humans are offering some of the DNA, it is natural that both editions are carried out by a large number of questions, including full surrogates. Let's not forget one thing I didn't have time to come in on my talk, that's the children. They are trying to make a statement that, however, they have a right to know what they are like, that it should preferably be before six years of age to make them aware of how they have come into the world, and then they themselves have the right to access data at 16 years of age. A child's presence may be strange, as it were, to realize that her womb, or her genetic mother, sold her body to wear it in any trial or disaster, if so. I think this case is much deeper than that. I don't mind answering questions. A senator on technical matters and whether the end of this or the other has been well provided, but this is not likely to change my basic stand. I don't think the approach at first is correct. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u35	V.E.G. President. We're here discussing a bill for a system of judicious surrogates, a case that has been often discussed in the General Assembly, all the roads since 2010, I would think. I suppose the beginning is, as mentioned earlier, in January 2009, when the then health minister, Gullifier Þórðarson, ordered a committee that started the case and gave the opinion quoted above. Then, in 2010, a Senate resolution proposal was made, but it did not pass through. It ended with an approved synonym, and 33 members of the council agreed to accept it, 13 elected votes in return, 4 did not vote, 5 had absence, and 8 were away. That's why I couldn't wait to give a talk. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon son of earlier, when he spoke of the lack of a better portion for the approved proposal. I don't think the more things have been available. There were 33 generals who said yes to this council resolution, or 20 more, than they said no. I believe this to be a definitive conclusion and clear will by Generalis, what was presented there. I deeply respect the opinions of those who did not agree with this proposal then and apparently do not agree with the bill, and I also wish that those members of the Parliament will respect my opinion. As I said in my speech in October 2011 - when the case was presented, I had a seat on a medical committee, as her name was then, for one or two years - visitors came to a medical committee meeting and said something about the fact that they did not particularly enjoy attending a committee of generals to describe their belief that they wanted to have children or to bring up children as many as possible but that they could not, among other things, for biological reasons. I said it then, and I'll say again, that I liked the presentation of those who came before the committee so good that I began to study the matter much more. As a result, I was a member of the proposal at the beginning of a council in 2011 and was one of the 33 who accepted the proposal that was then accepted, which led to the beginning of the bill to the highest degree. A minister is moving here now, and I'm going to do better in the latter part of my speech. I remember that when they were working on this proposal that led to approval, there was a lot of work going on. It was a representative of all groups who were trying their best to make a suggestion that would be accepted by most people and that would require it. There were strict conditions that many would prefer to enter, which included the statement of yes, but only 13 no. It seems to me that there were agents of all categories who said yes, and there were people from all classes who said no. That's just how things turn out sometimes. I do not hesitate to argue that much more of the Generals have agreed to the Senate resolution that the welfare minister has appointed a team to prepare a bill to act as a suitable home of surrogates. I'd like, with President's permission, to read out the proposal because it's very important: ▪ At work, emphasis will be placed on making sure that, first of all, the child's interests and rights, second of all, the right, self - control, and the well - being of the surrogate and her family, and third, the success of the prospective parents. A solid law frame, strict conditions, and clear rules of action will be set up in the implementation and monitoring of surrogate services, as well as the best way to contribute to the informed discussion of surrogacy in the community. At work professional assessments and knowledge, international research, and the experience of other Western nations will be fundamental. It was said that the bill would be submitted as quickly as possible. I think the bill we see here and the highest. A minister has taken action on all these matters that the Council concluded on January 18, 2012. Of course, there may still be opinions among members of Congress. That's why I say for my part: I am the sponsor of this bill as it is here. However, I have always the advance that at the professional committee, we may present a point or a set of adjustments that we need to consider and, of course, leave me the right to do more work. It has also been made here to talk about why us Icelanders, falling into a nation of 200 thousand people in the next few weeks or months, are doing this when larger countries around us, which we sometimes compare with, are not doing so. Then I can say, and I also said in a speech in 2011 when that case was given, that I included a long and good conversation with Professor Tómas Geirsson, the head of the women's field, who thought that it might be possible in the minority - his proposal while working this case on the committee was, of course, putting this committee, as discussed in one of the legal procedures, and that it would go through every single point, discussing individuals, and decided whether a surmountation would be permitted. In other words, I think there's a small person's advantage in this regard. I also said in my talk at that time, just looking at a picture from India regarding local transportation, that I would rather allow this here at home and then under strict supervision than see the following countries going to the countries that have led to the consequences. There was no remarkable picture that was drawn up in this television picture by a surrogate in India, and in short, it was what made me become more familiar with the subject and became its supporters. I'm not going to criticize that it took a long time. It may be normal for this to take a long time, it's a big, important case and a lot of opinions that surface. The professional work of the Committee may reveal something that needs to be considered, a natural process of billing before it becomes legal. It seems to me that the first lecture of the bill was taken into account by all the viewpoints introduced into the Senate itself. Many came to her, members of all classes were members of the Committee, while we were trying to get it done and to treat it at the council, which was approved on January 18, 2012. The staff sought all the time to test these objectives, to improve the quality of surrogate practices as best cared for the Icelandic legal environment, and to arrange for this meeting, received visitors, met up with North American experts on local surrogacy, introduced the pioneers at a meeting of WHO stakeholders and welfare committees, and conducted an open review procedure at the end of 2014. Then a verbal report was given here at the General Assembly in January 2014 and discussed. I think the objective of the bill is to ensure the benefit and right of a child born from a surrogate approach, right, self - control and the well - being of a surrogate and her family, and most least of all, the success of future parents. All of these laws are attributed, and in the bill, there are six or seven layers of law to change. So I have to say just as it is, I reiterate it, that I feel that I have been working very professionally on this project and that all those to whom it has come should be thanked for taking these views into consideration and enforcing them into the bill for the law presented here. I'm not going to 1st. to take better care of the situation. I don't feel that I need to participate in a discussion about trying to persuade members of Congress or get them to change their view of the bill or, rather, against surrogacy. It's none of my business. It's a matter of opinion among members of Congress, and it's just fine. We're here to discuss it openly at the General Assembly, whether it's at 1st. Um.....two. or 3. .., go through this and make the best of it so that we can all be proud of it. But I finally reiterate that my attitude changed greatly with these visits to the medical committee during those years when this issue was being discussed with the people who are naive and unable to have children in a natural way, how they described their views. I felt free to participate in this discussion, agree to the Parliament's resolution, urged that the bill be accepted, and that it would come in here to the Generals, and we would discuss it. Finally, the Council would apply to that vote and to a greater part of the Generals, if he were available, for the approval of the bill, make it legal then. I don't care if we're the first ones in the North. We've broken the path in many controversial cases here in Iceland and I think we can only be proud of it, more dignified President. As it is with me now, I am a sponsor of the bill and thanking all who have come to negotiate it for a good job. I have the right to monitor the work of the Committee and any suggestions there may be made before the case comes to final payment at the General Assembly. I believe that more than a part of the Generals would like to accept a more favorable surrogate approach, would like to be careful that we set good laws here that other nations can even take into account.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u36	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator's speech. I feel the same way. A senator, this discussion is designed, not to change anyone's views, but to cover the bill. I also agree with him that the current situation in which people go outside and take advantage of a means of payment is not working, so I want to participate in today's discussion. The bill includes the fact that an agreement is not binding between a surrogate mother and a prospective parent. It is because of an unprovable woman's right to control her own body. Nothing can take from a woman the right to be called the mother of a child with whom she is carrying and gives birth, nor does it matter if other people's sex cells have been used, nor does it give the right to the body of a surrogate or to the baby born. I think it's very welcome to the standard mother's rights in the bill. The importance of putting the interests of a child above the interests of prospective parents is also high. My question to the senator, who has been following this issue since the initial discussion, is whether women have the right to control their own body. Women must make their own decision to take a substitute, and they rule completely from start to end, during pregnancy, and at the birth of their baby.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u37	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir for this brief answer to my talk on the subject we are discussing. To answer those questions as a matter of course. A senator directs to me, I believe, all the details she lists are in the hands of this committee. I'm going to have no idea how this committee is set up at this stage, whether or not she's set up as a firm, like there, three men, with a lawyer as president and without an ethic on the committee. But, of course, I encourage the committee to go through it, and there the reporters will give their opinion. This is one of the factors that always appear. So I'll tell you what. A senator directly feels that this is fundamental to me. That's what I quoted, the professor I discussed earlier. The committee, which reviews these points, discussed with localist and prospective parents and all of them, is being checked for all the factors. It's the professional preparation I think it's far easier for us to go through because of a small one than it is in big countries. I hope this answers that question as a question. A senator turned to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u38	Mr. President. There are some questions raised on this major subject that is on our table with members of the Parliament. Hv. A senator came to see that the situation of a surrogate, for example, in India would be affected by these laws. The opening point is that we can go abroad and take advantage of a surrogate approach there. What is it exactly in this law that ensures the right of the Indian woman and that people do not take advantage of her as poor, socially difficult, and pressure to become a surrogate mother where she profits from it? What is the exact nature of the legislation that we can follow so that Indian women are treated in the same way as we believe, according to the legislation, not to guarantee the right women who could possibly be surrogates in Iceland? I'd like to ask you what. A senator's personal questions: Does he believe that women are inherently an manufacturing tool? Can he view the woman as a modern natural resource? I feel so unusual about the woman's body, as if it were a host, though I certainly respect the view that it is a disaster not to be able to have children.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u39	V.E.G. President. In answer to that as a dog. A senator asks me, and I want to answer - I make it clear that I would rather not use those words as used, and therefore I do not want to answer that question - this bill forbids a surrogate barrier that is out of harmony with the objectives and conditions of the bill, the articles, and thereby a profit - benefit - gain march. At the same time, it suggests that the search for or arrangements are not to be taken in our country to take advantage of surrogates in foreign lands that do not meet the requirements of the law we set. In this way I view illegal activities, e.g. In India, would not fall under this. What I said back then is that I'd rather put laws here, allow substantiate laws, and set strict laws to prevent some of our countrymen from going to India, and be able to have a child there, under the circumstances that we saw in the controlled image that I made as a subject of the past. If it could, I think it's quite a victory with such legislation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u40	Mr. President. This just shows that there are many aspects of the case and that it is difficult to discuss. It's hard to use words that we still have to use because we're human beings, we're not machines. That is why we need to speak English in this matter. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Congress: If he sees women in Iceland going on to become surrogates for reasons other than social pressure, will some woman decide one day that she is ready to become a surrogate mother for one parent in Iceland, regardless of everything else? If not due to a measure of pressure, e.g. from family members, or from some sort of social reason that she would make that decision? I know this isn't an easy question. There's something else. The bill shows that the parent who is going to take over the child and the surrogate mother can cancel. Suppose a child is diagnosed with a genetic defect, and neither party wants to take the child, what will be the blessing of the child? I don't see in this bill anything that guarantees the right of the baby if both a surrogate mother and a future parent refuse. If your child has a genetic defect or is disabled and is a parent's or standardist toward it, who will accept it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u41	V.E.G. President. Hv. At the beginning of his case, a senator said that there were many aspects of this matter. That is correct, and opinions about it vary. It's all about ourselves, that we can call human beings in a single word. I don't want to believe that someone takes on the role of a surrogate mother, putting a child under the belt for parents who can't have children, because of social pressure. I can't believe it can go through. Then I come back to the committee and the opinion from the professor who suggested this to us at the time when we were working with a body of Congress proposal on the National Institute of Health. I allow myself to claim that I have the right dream that the proposal has first come from the fine professor that the work that starts before this will lead to its approval or rejection. That is the basis for this matter. But it's also that way, as we've talked about, and I made it a subject of conversation with the people who came before a medical committee at the time and told us that they can't have a child and that they don't really like doing this, but it's a good way. We have been pioneers in various legislations, e.g. to homosexuals and others. That's why I don't think we're taking any dangerous steps with this if it makes it a more professional process, a better procedure if we do this in Icelandic medical systems than if we go to other countries to get this service.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u42	Mr. President. We're here discussing a complex matter in that it is most likely the essence of each person. When a baby is born, we actually say to start a new story, an unwritten magazine. In all the stories we write, whatever their names are and who writes them, the core of most of them is about this. It is a matter of communication between parents and children. I think it's perfectly normal that in this discussion, feelings are involved. We're supposed to let us have them here. There are moral arguments that need to be discussed but also emotional practices, apart from other traditional arguments, pragmatic, legal, and technical arguments. It is important that we try to approach one another in this discussion so that we can come to understand the evidence for all of us, since this is, I believe, a matter that affects this core that we all possess because we have all been born here. Of course, most people yearn to have children. But it is so, and I would like to say that it is my food after reading about it, though I can also understand the grief of not being able to have children, I don't consider it the right people to have children. There I subscribe to a general interpretation of international human rights, which can be said to be the tendency to view children's rights to parents who are far richer than the right to establish a family. I believe there must be a very important guide in our discussions on this matter, i.e. the right of what cannot be spoken here in these discussions, the child's right. I feel that when we discuss these matters, we need to keep in mind. It is important that we understand the grief that it may be that we cannot have a child in the usual way, but I feel that it is dangerous to view it as right. However, the technical affairs of these cases have completely changed the situation. Of course, that is not just in this case, since legislation and society are really far behind technology. In that respect, I understand those who say that the technology must be put into some frame, we have to put a frame around the technology, but I recommend that by setting a frame in the form of legislation on this technology, we are about to take one step to change the criteria for how we think about births, women and men, how we really look at this event that is so closely related to the core of ourselves. By enforcing laws on surrogacy, we are saying that this is normal, not an abnormal or unusual thing, but a part of a very normal process, although we do not know in themselves whether it will be common. We don't know. This bill, which is involved in surrogacy, is a code of laws that are being proposed. I'm saying that I think the group who wrote this bill tried hard to cope with writing a bill that assumes that we're going to have a law frame on a surrogate. So first we need to ask the question, " What does it mean to have a law frame about surrogates? ' I reiterate my warnings from earlier, because what is this about? It's about building a set framework where people can make an agreement, let's say that a woman and a couple can make an agreement that a woman will take a baby for a married couple for nine months, the baby will be born, and then what is called a parent transfer, i.e. after the birth of a baby. However, it is stated in the bill that in this declaration or agreement, it is not possible to demand an expediency. It raises questions as to whether the surrogate mother will be able to report the agreement, soon after the baby is born. Can parents report the agreement after the baby is born, i.e. The parents, or what we call them? How will we resolve if both parties report the agreement after the birth of a child as mentioned earlier? It shows that you can tell yourself what is normal in itself, for it would be very unnatural to have a binding agreement. What happens, like what I mentioned before with the core, is that walking a child for nine months is not just hosting a life creature that has nothing to do with you but forming a link in nine months. That's what most people think I'm going to experience, although, of course, it's impossible to make a date, since every pregnancy is definitely unique. This, however, shows that much of what happens during pregnancy affects the childhood and life of the child ever since. There is a connection, and the mother is not just a home for an organism for nine months before she gives it up, but she is directly involved with the same child and it involves a huge, deep core. The bill expects a child to be informed about his appearance before he is six years old. I also ask, " What do we see in this? ' What problems, can we say, are we doing this for children born in this way? We are always telling the story in our community about the relationship between parents and children, and all the great adventures center on the relationship between parents and children. It's so interesting that the stories about the bad steps were original stories about bad mothers, and then the censors came up and turned those mothers into steprs because we don't speak against our mothers. But that is what all of us communicate, our dealings with mothers and fathers, and all the complications that can develop there. Can we provide for the complications of a child's coming to realize that it has not only parents but also other mothers? A mother whom we in itself do not know what will have to say about bringing up this child. Then some say: Yes, all right, you can go over a lot of these emotional acts, but you don't feel that way around pregnancy, and there can be a situation where people want to take a child for someone else and make a statement about it, and it's very normal to negotiate with these things as well as others. I find it very difficult to look at it that way, just from the emotional fields I've moved here and believe that it matters because we're not just rational beings. But there is also another fundamental argument that matters that have nothing to do with sentimentality and nothing to do with the mother and child and the story that concerns me so much. It is fundamental that we live in a society where there is no full gender rights and where there certainly is no equality, we can say in the last few years and decades. I don't have to have many examples of that, we can just take the trend into politics. In 30 years we have been very successful, but let us not imagine that we are in a position where there is a state of gender equality in Icelandic society and that we are at the top of the world as I understand and that our prime minister is also at the top of the world as the world's number one, male. Let us not imagine that in Iceland, a country is full of gender equality, rather than anywhere else. It is only enough to mention discrimination in pay, sexual violence, countless marks in our society that show it to us and prove it. The setting of a law frame that allows a woman to walk with a child for others through the declaration of her will, in fact, a contractal surrogate in which she is not a profiteer, shows and increases the risk that I believe a certain stall for women in a society where there is not full sex justice. I have studied articles from people who give convincing evidence that our emotions are something we have to push aside. I don't agree with that, but I totally understand that some people want to. But as long as we live in a society where there is no equality, we must ask ourselves, " What message are we sending by bringing it into law that it is reasonable to negotiate women to play this role for others, to become really a means for others to fulfill their wishes and dreams? ' What are we saying to women? I'm just asking cold and logical: What are we saying to women by putting this law frame and thus, so I'll cut it down, Mr. President, to a standardist surrogate in this way? I think this is the fundamental reason why, in other parts of the North, there has not yet been an attack on surrogacy laws. It is especially because of the view that we hear in other parts of the North where sex equality is strong, as here, that this step may be very dangerous. I've even listened to people who say that if there was perfect gender equality, they'd be willing to look at this, and they'd push all the emotional fields aside, but that's not, and that's why we shouldn't take this step, because we can be moving the position of equality back. This is what I think needs to be considered when discussing this bill, which is about setting a new technology frame. What is involved in taking that step? That is to say that we feel that it is only a normal part of society to ask women to walk with children for others. We take technology and we say, it's just normal. What, then, are we saying to women? What problems are we creating in the future as we look at children who may grow up in this way? I'm asking because here we are dealing with the fundamental nucleus of human existence. Mr. President. I'd like to say, because my time is running out, that I've found this difficult matter when it's been discussed here. But I would like to listen to the ethicists who have asked us to take it slow and give it time. There has been a debate since 2008, 2009, when these matters first began, but it is still my opinion that this discussion is not mature enough, and I think it is important that we at the council take time to review the matter from what I have studied and other factors. Councilmen have mentioned. This is a fundamental question for children and their right to parents. But this is also a basic question of how we look at women and men, and I warn that they will make decisions that we can regret far into the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u43	A respectable president. I would like to say at the outset that I myself have been opposed to this matter for a number of reasons, many of them were mentioned in a sermon. Senator. It's not because you don't want people to have a family or anything but too many risk factors to go this way. I don't think we're a town at this time. I don't feel that we've been able to answer all the facts during the discussion. I thought why. A senator will do well. I'd like to mention some things and ask you why. A senator. She spoke a lot about the baby and what it would be like when it was six years old and what the consequences might be, but according to this bill, it should be said. I wondered if she knows that psychologists have given some kind of results about this and whether there is something generally heard in the class that works best with the children, whether teachers, social workers, or others who are very busy around them have come to answer the questions, " How could this affect your children for a long time? ' Why is six years, not sooner or later? I wanted to ask her who these groups were at that job. Then I'd like to ask, too. A senator about something else. She's talking like it's actually a contracting women. I agree with her, and I worry about where the line will be drawn at the expense of those parents who then get the child to make a deal with the surrogate mother. [[The president calls.]] Where will the cost be drawn? What if the surrogate mother fell out of a job market during this time? [[The president calls.]] So they're paying her wages or what?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u44	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Perhaps I could talk more about what I called a contractal surrogate. It refers to a declaration of will and will, but a positional agreement shall be written and confirmed for a judicial committee on surrogacy, or her employee, as witnesses to each candidate has been directed on the right effects of approval and local transportation. That's it. It's almost like a contract unless it's stated that people can walk out, i.e. It is not possible to demand an answer to the points presented in a mutual declaration, but a surrogate mother and her partner can see events requiring a reimbursement of the costs they have submitted to each occasion and are expected in a mutual declaration. It's such a delicate matter, and it touches the core of being a human being. We've all said here that we're not talking about profit-raising surrogates and that's not what we're talking about. Of course, you are concerned that there are laws here and then some praxis, and there will be some boundaries. We are already moving the line - by setting the line, we will have moved it. Do you understand what I'm saying? We provide the boundaries that concern the way it is normal to think about childbirth and a woman. Where can it lead us? Hv. A senator asks if it can simply cause the surrogate mother to start charging over a large amount of cost, almost as a reward. Of course, this bill is not part of the plan. What you're worried about is how this limit is going to develop because we're moving it now, and we can't predict it. But, of course, that is not the intention. As for the welfare of other professionals, I really don't trust to say any more about it than the report shows. [[The president calls.]] I'll find out later.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u45	A respectable president. You see, I think it's an important question what psychologists say about this case because I think it can have a lot to do with children's self - image. You don't know what that will be like because it all depends on how you say it and how you work on it. There is nothing given the way that it will be done. It is placed in the parents'hands to see it, and not everyone has the ability to do it the best he can, that's just the way it is. I'm worried about this show. I'm also worried about the cost, as I came in earlier. Member States negotiate with each other, assuming that the cost of medical care and other activities will be in that contract. Then what? If a surrogate mother loses her job, who will pay for her living expenses and daily needs? What if, for example, the patient becomes subsequently or an invalid due to pelvic warming? Such cases exist, far too many. This is a strain on the woman's body. Where is the responsibility? Will that be the kingdom -- I don't know, have we become injuring? How are we going to get this thing done? I can't see, after shooting through this, that people got it right. I think we need to know the answers to these questions because there is nothing simple in this matter. I hope the committee carefully reviews all these opinions and calls out to those who are in a position to answer these points because of my concern. I feel like we're setting laws that can put too many people in an awkward position. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We have a large moral issue that remains, and we cannot accept it before we have used all available ends. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u46	Mr. President. Of course, there have been warnings from a number of professionals, such as nurses, National Institutes of Morality, and others who have asked us to go to the earth carefully and observe evolution elsewhere in the North rather than to go ahead in this matter. To that end, there is an important reason, perhaps primarily for the reason. A senator mentioned the complications we may be creating for these children. I told them earlier that all stories were about between parents and children. Many stories are about the very fact that the children realize that some others are their parents. We all know from our stories and from the real world that it is not an easy situation. Modern psychology has actually been turning since the 19th century. We can imagine that there may be plenty to do in that sector. Without necessarily predicting that this will be something enormously common, I'm not doing it, we're still handling a frame that can have a profound impact on individuals and their lives. I've sometimes felt that people want to do something about this moral and human opinion as something technically solved. After reading this bill, I am not convinced of that. Although I do not doubt that there is some framework that is trying to make for these opinions, I don't think that we have just considered that we have been discussing the discussion and seeing how this can really affect individuals, not just the children, but the women who will treat them and the parents who will have children in this way. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's in no way simple, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u47	President. This is certainly not the first time that this matter is discussed in the Assembly Hall. I think it's true that last time in January 2014, we talked about it at the highest. The minister gave us a report on the matter. Then I commended him, and I'm going to commend him again for giving us a report on the case he called a verbal report, in fact, we have received it in writing, but this further shows his will to inform us about where this matter was going. Then we talked about it here. I think I've always participated in a discussion about the matter when it's been discussed here. So it is with me that the more we discuss this matter and the more I read about it, the more I'll be against it. When I was thinking about it today, reading it and the magazine in it - that I was going to talk about it, I thought, " Can I talk about it? ' I guess I'll just cry. This is not about our wanting to keep a married couple from having a child or having a child to bring up and share the rest of our life with, the satisfaction that they bring. It's about making the female body some kind of tool -- of course not here, you can't say that because it's a good thing and trying to go over it all and explain it. They're talking about making the female body some kind of tool, and I think it's totally horrible. And because it's supposed to be so good, the woman needs to be healthy. She needs to be at a good age. What's she supposed to be? Between 25 and 39 years of age, something like that. She needs to have a baby so that she can do it at all. And there must have been at least two years since she had her last child, since it is likely that she would be treated too much. There's something else that makes me feel quite strange in this bill, that if a woman or a housemate or a couple or those who decide to make this trip together, they have lost a child two years since they lost the child until they can start having a baby for others. Are there any psychologists or others who appreciate it and say: If two years have passed, then are these people back in shape that they can start having children for other people? A respectable president. I just have to say, it's so gasty, I use that word. It was earlier mentioned in this discussion that the council had outrun itself, and I think that's exactly how it is, that we are superior to ourselves here. The bill is based on a mass resolution based largely on the work of a staff that produced by the end of 2010. The group of people clearly concluded that we were not ready to lead a surrogate approach to law; we needed more discussion, we needed to agree in the community that that that that's the way we wanted to go. Then there were points to be considered. Committeemen will conclude that we are not ready to go into this. At that time, a greater number of members of the body of members of this group take to heart the words: Yes, we are now going to appoint another group, and this working group is not to do as the previous service group suggested, i.e. Taking a closer look, taking a closer look, taking a closer look, and going into each of the most creative terms in the world. A fine part of the council wasn't they 31 or something like that? [[Up front.]] That may well be so. These senators got out by saying that they had to write a bill that allowed a local tunnel. Thank you. Hey, guys. I was then on a welfare committee, and I was a prominent speaker for a minority party, since we were completely opposed to making a bill of that subject. We had a new arrangement where we suggested that the work force be able to do more on all these matters of opinion. That proposal was natural. Then came a bill from the staff to check how - and we're suddenly done with all these questions. How will the well - being of a surrogate and her family be maintained? Is that an answer here? Is it part of the surrogate's well-being that she has whole teeth and healthy, as is said of here, and at the best age? There's so much human contempt in this bill, a respectable president, I'm practically speechless. How should the group that must be allowed to have a child by surrogacy? Then comes the suggestion. Here, for example, are single men, homosexuals, and so forth, moving a woman to take a child for herself. That was discussed earlier. paritaprevir Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir asked if it was really so that we decided whether people could have children or not raise children and where we were going to set the boundaries. Yeah, it's perfectly set in my mind where I'm going to set the line. I'll draw the line where you take a woman to take her baby to you, whether it's two men, a married couple or a single man or whatever, I'll set the line. Then there are questions such as: Should there be a requirement for both a surrogate mother and a prospective parent to live in the country? It's natural that it's just a little bit more than anything else. How should a financial barrier be prevented? It will never be done, Your Honorable President. I'm going to claim here that there will never be any hidden payment done. And some have even said: " Is it not better for profit than for some good? ' Is it not better than, for example, for a sister in her 40's to talk to her 25 - year - old sister about it? The sister, who loves her aunt, knows that the mother's mother's greatest grief has been that she never had a child. Then comes the mother's sister and says: "Oh, Stína, do you think you wouldn't just have a baby for me? I say like what? paritaprevir Sigríður Ingadóttir: I'm glad I'm not that I can be among the women who get that question. Then, just before then, we discussed how children's rights should be guaranteed to know their origin. There are laws to be made to tell before the children are six years old. I say, why not until later? These questions are not answered. And then, what if a surrogate mother or prospective parents change their mind? Yeah, well, it's presented here, maybe it's the only thing that's decent in this bill that the surrogate mother can change her mind. I think it's the only thing. I think that's the only light in the blackness we have here in front of us, a respectable president. I really hope that this matter will be thoroughly addressed to a welfare committee. And I certainly hope, most respected president, that we will never -- never -- accept this bill in this council hall. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u48	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir for the speech. She was very powerful and emotional and touched you well. As a new member of the welfare committee, I've been thinking about this a lot lately. I haven't had much work to do with these matters before or in this discussion, because it's always been a very flammable subject. Such a surrogate approach seems to pass, and human beings are being induced to walk with children for themselves. Similarly, people have tried to get children abroad from time to time, but I would like to ask them why. A senator: Is it not better to have it in law so that we can work by law? It is underground, and as revealed in news reports not long ago, a very difficult situation has developed that seems to be difficult to resolve. Don't you think it's better to keep it in law?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u49	First of all, a respectable president, comes the greatest horror we see in these matters from abroad. Although we accept this here, it will not change anything that happens there. In view of the discussion that has been conducted here today, and if you examine how this committee should work to meet parents who come with children abroad, this may even result in more use than usual today. I don't know. I thought about the discussion earlier, if it wasn't right for the committee that I hope will never exist, the countries that people couldn't look to. The senator asks if it would be better to have a legal basis for this. No, because setting this legal issue is what we are saying: Yes, it's okay. But I just don't think it's okay for a woman to be asked for it in the shelter of the law, because everything is guaranteed, because everything is safe, because the person has gone through some process, and because she's healthy, it's okay to ask her for it and all right that she does. No, the box has been set up like a dog. paritaprevir Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, said, and we must not do so. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u50	Mr. President. Here we are discussing very controversial issues that have been discussed in the past during a council and that have been carried out, as men have referred to here, in various conflicting ways. It ended up in a team of working men who had the suggestion of returning the bill to a system of conduct for a good purpose and making it as good a law as possible. I don't think there's any legal issue to justify the view of women as a manufacturing tool. I can't write in my heart about it. I think we should look at the basics. From a number of articles that strengthen this and the other aspects of this controversial matter, you need to find within the core of yourself and in your heart whether these are right or wrong. We as humans on this globe - how far should we go according to what science offers? You can clone animals -- How far should we go as human beings? Must we not have the moral strength to draw the line somewhere and see what is normal and right? In this context, what plan are we to bring the woman as a person, that she is in the legal capacity to accompany only a child in order to give it away? Would anyone not have reasoned so long ago that it was natural for a woman to walk with a child just to give it away? Throughout the centuries, we are well acquainted with the horrors of many women, who because of poverty and difficult circumstances, were giving away children, and their grief was in their heart all their life. Will we in our modern society, where we live in luxury, view it as human rights that everything is offered in order for women who cannot have children, that other women are meant to lend their bodies for such production? I don't think it's what a person is. I'm a supporter of ways that have been gone, but I don't go as far as it's suggested. I have supported assisted reproductive techniques and in vitro fertilisation, and I lead around it. I think it's different. Then it is not a child to give it to the child. Rather, the woman is helped to walk with a child and is connected to a child normally, physically, but she does not have to give it up after pregnancy. I know that it may be difficult for many men to put these steps on, but I think that most women who have had the blessing of walking with children cannot conclude that it is a natural thing in Icelandic legislation that women are used for the purpose of carrying a child only to give it away. I'm here with an advertisement from 2007 that I'm going to quote, by permission of the President. It says: ▪ Is there someone there who might consider carrying a child for us? We'd be used an embryo. Legally, this cannot be done in this country, so the process has to happen abroad. This will be handled as confidential. If you would like to take a look at this with us, please contact us. Is this what we want to see? How does the process of approaching a woman get along with a child? Will it be in the form of order advertisements, screen advertisements? Or it'll be like that, like a dog. paritaprevir Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir came in, that the family will be seen in the big context and put pressure on women in the big family? Or will it be advertised, and is it true that the unmarried women or the unrelated women are wide and wide in the small Iceland, waiting to see such an advertisement in the Morning Press? Is that a fact? It's so unnatural to adjust matters like this, it's amazing. Of course, some words come to mind; first of all, it's repugnant. It also involves a measure of contempt in all of this, the view that this can be justified only by the making of such adjustments as best chosen. Children are entitled to parents; the United Nations Children's Covenant is in place, and there are rich commitments. The bill refers to letting the baby born under those symbols know when it is six years old and 16 years old. This interval between six and 16 years of age - I think it might be hard for many of the children to know that this is the case. The thought may be confusing: Should I get information about which mother or woman decide to take me away to give up? There are countless questions that have not been answered and some things I think will have psychological and social consequences for the child as well as for the woman who took the baby and gave it away. It is set so that a woman can walk with a child three times and give, that she needs to be on the right age and in good health - I don't know if I can say that from this platform, but it's like reading something that you read about sex reforms at Iceland's Farm Society, it's looking for breeding or someone else. To put a woman in this context, that she is a tool to produce a child she should give away - as I think more about it and I start to talk about it, that makes me feel more sad. This is bigger than tears, it must only be said at the moment. We know that there are plenty of orphans around the world who would truly need children who would want them to have children. I know that there are a lot of parents who have gone along then and both parties are happy about it; their children are landing in good homes, and their parents are having a wonderful child in this way. I believe that we should seek all ways to create adoption laws in such a way that it becomes easier to adopt a child; of course, there is a need to ensure the child's best interests and all concerned, but there is an urgent need for adoption so that it is possible for them to be in this picture. It is also worth strengthening the environment of other pathways such as assisted reproductive techniques and in vitro fertilisation and the like. This bill spreads the possibility of going to other countries to these poor oppressed women around the world, who have gone that way to earn a living. Nothing will stop it from doing. Or will men immediately close in various lands that they feel are not fulfilling the laws here? I'm not beginning to see that it will be done. The Icelandic community - we're just so small and close to you, you know you. It's hard to let this happen here in the country. By having it legalized in this way, couples may find it more common to decide to make it happen abroad. No one has to tell me, but it doesn't have to be in the cards, even though it's just being said it's being done for the benefit here. Nothing can prevent this from being paid in one way or another behind the scenes and that it will never reach the surface. Women certainly have the right to have their own body, I stress it. If a woman wants to make the decision to walk with a child for others, I do not believe that this is justified even if I fully support the woman's right to make a decision over her own body. In a free spirit, it should not be forbidden to do what they want with their own body, as in this case, that women are free to choose whether they want to become surrogates or not. I believe there are so many moral questions that the Icelandic community has to discuss at the bottom, in the field of medical science, in the field of ethics, and in the general community. We have a long way to talk about this, because these things haven't been that much in the discussion, and they've got so many sides. You can have full insight that it is a great sympathy for parents and women who are unable to have children in a natural way. But there are also many who are born into this life and who suffer tragedy in life, and no one can expect that everything will go smooth and down in their lives, whether it is about to have children or not. That's just the way life is. We need to accept the tragedy of each one of us and make the best of it. Hopefully, we will never be able to expect everything we want in life if we have money to do so. It also applies to the intention of making the woman the manufacturing device that I believe is making her in this bill, that I can never write on it. I hope it's not approved here at the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u51	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator for this detailed review. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether it doesn't consider it necessary to lay a law where it's just a little loose air, and we know that there's a surrogacy in this country. I'd like to ask you straight out, "Do you feel bad?" A senator did not need to make a law about this object clearly?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u52	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I don't think that even if something is going on, it's acceptable to make a law about it in order to justify it. There could then be a transfer of so many other things that we do not feel should be tolerated today, that we wrote that because it had been established by a legal institution. Unfortunately, the issue is totally unrelated to the use of strong illegal drugs in Iceland. So do we want to legalize them and write them up, even if I say that it's a completely different thing, of course? You cannot justify something that you think is wrong by setting a law on it, that because it has been accepted, it is all right, and society must take it for granted. Where, then, is the limit? Where are we gonna pull the line? If we do not feel as members of society and members of Congress that things are supposed to be like this, then we will continue to work against their being that way rather than taking part in the fact that they are all right because they have become a reality in some part of their lives, and therefore we should set a law on it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u53	V.E.G. President. Thanks for that, huh? Senator. What I was wondering was, would it not be ideal to keep this on the table and let the women who choose to become surrogates to make their own decisions? Do we want to take the power from them by saying, "No, we're not going to make laws about this? Do we not rather take the power to them and trust them to make the decision they consider to be the best? I'm just asking if it's not right to let the women decide for themselves whether they choose to be surrogates.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u54	Madam President. If this case were as simple as a dog. A senator would have established this law in the north. It's just that it's a lot more complicated than that and a lot more moral questions that are under there. As discussed in the discussion, there are countless associates leading to judicial action. I don't know how many times they mention this has to be done in court. Sadly, it would not be easy to follow, as it were, many moral questions, and there is nothing to wait for but the court's way. It must be because of something that the countries we compare with us have not trusted to go this way and have rather hardened their laws to prevent this from happening. We must also look beyond our own belly button and look to poorer countries and women, where the Westerners have actually abused for this purpose. This law is totally open to the fact that Icelandic citizens can search there. There is no guarantee that poor women who live under difficult circumstances and their social pressures will be forced to walk with a child and give away that which I do not believe in anyone in this room can write on. We also know that today a woman might decide to walk with a child and give it up and adopt it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This is the reality today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u55	Madam President. Here's a complicated discussion. This case is quite not simple. As you can hear, this is an enormous number of opinions, and it is a rather complex discussion in many respects, no matter what your opinion on the subject may be. I think it is important that we respect each other's opinions and listen attentively to the reasonings presented, no matter what they may come from. Remember, here we are, of course, talking about people, we're talking about human beings. We are talking about human rights and moral principles, and that may be what we are at the top of, and it is not the most important thing to discuss at council. To me, this is dangerous, including. Based on the equality and the women's right to freedom, as we have seen here. We can claim that women are the basis for the rights of other individuals. I feel like I can roll it up. I have no doubt that the committee has worked to the best of its ability, based on its formula, i.e. creating a law frame to legalize the local surrogates for well-being. It is the guide, but it helps us to determine whether it is wise or not. It's always a question of whether it's the right person to have children. I believe that having children is not the right thing for people to have and that extending their own genes is not the most important thing in life, securing their inheritance in this way. Of course, not everyone feels the same way. Here is an excellent essay entitled ◯Fifty Ways to Make a Child: Law environment and community discussions about surrogates in Iceland, and from Þórunn Elísabet Bogadóttir. When it comes to these matters, it is very interesting to read. For one thing, it shows that our community is experiencing fundamental changes without any direct awareness of it. They've snuck up behind us and become reality without a formal view of them. Of course, that is true of many things. I think it applies, among other things, to the development of ART. Here at the time of its appearance, there have been reviews of the matter and evidence in various fields, including those who may be more free in this regard, that people in general may do so to their own bodies they want to do. In the past, they tried to reason that it's not just about the woman, it's about so much more. In this context, it is not just about the right of this particular person to walk with a child, but it affects a lot of other factors. This cannot be represented as the only right of a woman to control her own body. You need to look at the bigger picture. However, it has also been said that it is not the State's job to protect parents'reproductive organs but that it is to protect children's interests. Contracts where a surrogate mother gives up rights over her body are thought to violate the rights of human rights, whether a surrogate mother does so in a sense of well - being or for other reasons. Granted, certain factors in the bill have been corrected, that both sides can cancel, but the question presented earlier has not been answered: What if both parties fail to compromise and refuse to accept? A situation may arise, even though you may not see it. The argument that people go to other countries to search for surrogateism makes me feel more concerned about people than about other people, that people really want to go to countries even where surrogateism is not allowed and buy a child from a poor woman. I think it's a lot more about parents who want to do that, or they become parents on that basis than about anything else. And I don't think a law on the matter will guarantee that it will not be done. There is nothing to say about legalizing these matters here, preventing people from going abroad or seeking assistance elsewhere. I find the essay I quoted to be excellent. Then there are other opinions, as I said earlier, in connection with this discussion and in the comments given to them. One of the things a man stumbles about in this is that a woman may walk with a child three times as a surrogate. I feel like it's become commercial. I can't watch it any other way. And why? We need to answer that question even if we are a nation that is prominent in various matters. Why in the world do we have to introduce such an overwhelmingly controversial and difficult case first to all the northern nations and most of the population? I don't think it's wise to take the lead in this matter. I don't think that's the way we should do it. Are these rights for everyone? Clearly, we can never make sure that everyone, whether by this method or by any other means, is able to have a child. So many obstacles can stand in the way of that. I feel that the right of children to have good parents is much stronger than the right of people to start a family. In Comb 4. The bill has entered the court of the United Nations Children's Covenant and is saying that this is in harmony with it, but I don't agree entirely with it. We do not necessarily make sure that a child survives and grows up under secure and mature parenting conditions, although we are at the homes of a surrogate, despite the fact that the committees are to look into the interests of the people. There's also one thing I thought was interesting here. Are we really sure that the situation is the best if parents are reasonably wealthy or are something else that can make children feel comfortable and grow older? Here, however, a considerable contribution is made to the need for financial stability. What does that mean? Is it implemented somewhere by a Regulation what the tax returns to say? There's talk that tax returns need to be made. Does it really make sure that children will have good parents? I don't think so. Of course, people are spoken of as having social benefits, and I feel much stronger that they are a good social situation and a good network of family and friends. All of us want to make sure that our children have the best and that they have food, a long way from that, and that the economy is something specially stable. Then he can be trusted in a certain amount of time, not in others. When it is claimed that this will be part of the United Nations Convention or the Child's Rights, I do not consider it to be on the right grounds here. I also feel that it is worth considering that the doctors who discussed the matter back then thought, as I said earlier, and also ethicists, that the law was inclined to change. This happened with the ART law, and it must not be forgotten that they were on a committee eight years before they became legal. 15 years later, as we know, these words are far wider than they were, and it is much more open than previously was possible to use that service. And for the rest, I'd like to go on some envelopes that were received last time. With the review of Iceland's Ekis Society, an article follows an excerpt by journalist Kajsu Ekis Ekman. By permission of the President, I would like to quote a part of him, which says: To use women's bodies for their own needs, the right to give children is closely related to the right of the court. It's as simple as that. Such rights must never be established, for then we are turning women's body into men's tools. With surrogacy, we herded women into storage rooms, genitals, mined for others to dig in and pay for with pennies. To this end, it does not matter what emotional activities are being used, nor does it matter what examples are presented in the past. This is all about whether women's bodies can be used to satisfy the needs of others. It's like women are not human beings. They're natural resources. This may be the basic element of what we most have been discussing. Later, the woman has to remove herself the fetus she carries for nine months, and the baby, separates herself, share with the fetus she carries under her belt. This cannot be considered normal. The review quotes a 30 - year - old woman who says, by permission of a president: To be a surrogate mother involves taking a firm stand. The children are not yours and they've never been. You can't claim them, and I'm aware of my role. I'm just a babysitter for my great friend T.. This is her baby and I'm just taking care of it until it's born. It actually leads to the delusion if a woman puts herself in the role of a babysitter. It is not normal to set yourself aside from yourself in such a way that you can hardly be healthy. In India, women are taught to dissociate themselves from their bodies. It is suggested that anthropologist Kalindi vor, by permission of a president: ▪ The goal is to make women understand that surrogateism does not affect them as sexes and that they encourage them to form a distance from the fetus and finally the baby. Communicating and advising treatment are encouraged to view themselves as supplying, and their connection to the fetus is only renting out their uterus. So, they're not mothers, they're standby. Is that a healthy attitude? I think we're most of the parents in here, and it's reasonable to ask, Is that healthy? I don't think so, Mr. Honorable President, and I hope that those who can't have children don't get the upper hand on what's reasonable. The basis for the equality struggle is that women should not be tools in other people's hands, whether fathers, mates, or others, or infertile women. We're supposed to have sex, we're supposed to have children when we want to and when we want to. We're not resources or machines, and we're supposed to resist surrogates because it's our right to be whole people. [[The president calls.]] However, we are to correct the adoption laws and allow people to adopt all these children who are outside the world without parents.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u56	A respectable president. I think I'm the last person on the rosary here today, and I want to start by thanking you for this discussion. It's been very informative. It has been very good to sit here and listen to people who may have participated in this past, who have observed this process from the very beginning. Let us not forget that it was approved during the last assembly to hide a working group and then a minister to present this bill. I'm like others, I'm swinging in this case to and from like a snorkel in the wind, and I don't know what step I'm going to step in, I have to admit it. I mentioned earlier that you've heard it this way that it's really good just to be in a town that doesn't have to take a stand on a case like that, but there's nothing left to say now, you have to take a stand like in any matter, sort of, that you get on your table to be a senator. I've felt that there's a lot of moral and social issues here and I think that this is almost one of the most complex issues we can discuss, that it involves so many aspects of human life, human rights, and so forth. You also wonder that they have been around, that they have been carrying children for others. I asked why. paritaprevir Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir would it not have to be a law against this? She gave it a very direct answer. There are many who say that it can only be worse, people just go abroad to this point, and there's still more kaos around these things, and maybe there's no improvement in them. You have noticed, however, that in these matters there seems to be a legal void so that people have nothing behind them. In this regard, I remember the interview that was the other day in Castegi, but I don't know if it can be compared to this, but I think so. There's a person who decides to walk a child for his friends, and then they just close the door and she's left in a legal and emotional void and she's broken and bent. It makes you think, Jesus, why is it like this? You also wonder, as the final speaker mentioned, " Should I not look for any other way out than this for people who want to have a baby? ' It has also been observed that other northern nations have not accepted a surrogate law, and something is behind it. Hv. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon went through very thorough why it is. It's an enormous figure of opinion. But this is allowed elsewhere, here and there in the world, e.g. In the United States, more than tens of thousands of children have been born like this. I listened to a lecture or part of a lecture by Dr. Elly Teman, an Israelite professor and doctor of anthropology, saying that in 2011, she had already been 25 thousand surrogates. There were only 14 cases of 25 thousand where there were trouble, opinion, or justice. It's not a big proportion if you start wondering. As I say, after listening to the discussion today, I've had quite a swing in this matter, and I haven't thought of it, even though I've leaned a little more towards this after listening to it, because there's been very strong evidence to prove it. It's really emotional, and I wondered if we're going too soon, if we're going too fast, because it's a very serious matter. I mentioned this example from the United States, but I wondered if there are any research or evidence that can tell us how to deal with these situations where this is permitted. There are so many extraordinary numbers of questions that arise. Now that I haven't read this bill, I've been over it a little fast and it's big and big. I have strong hopes that there will be a very detailed and good discussion on the welfare committee where all the guests who really can shed light on these matters will be called. I will do my part in trying to figure it out and to form an opinion. It's across all classes, men with and against. It's just one of those cases where people split into two corners. I've been looking for material on this subject, and a man runs into questions such as whether the woman who walks with me could have an abortion. Can she eat anything she wants? Can she drink? Can she do a mean exercise? Now the Senate case has shown in the bill that it must be healthy, must be in good shape, and must meet certain requirements. But what about this? Mega future parents, e.g. Is she forbidden to smoke and drink alcohol? There are no laws or anything holding this. There's a lot of questions. Here, too, a question is: If the baby has a genetic defect and is born with a genetic defect, and neither will have a baby, what will it take? What if the parents who are to receive the baby and the surrogate mother do not want it? This question was raised here today; it was not answered, but this is a big question. I have high hopes for the work on the committee, now I'm going to the committee, and I really hope we can talk about it on a perplexity point. There was a clear message given to the highest level. The Minister of Health to handle this case and bring a bill to the council he has and he has done, and we just have to take care of the council's wishes to do this. I think this is a case that needs to be resolved. Here, natural speech has been presented with an emotionally intense speech that really moves you. This is a very big, important case that we have to come to terms with. I call for all the information to be presented on how this has been going elsewhere. For example, have there been local routes of abortion? Do they have permission? What, then, is the right of parents? Who Will Take over? What a spiritual shock it must be to prospective parents who may have made a contract to have a surrogate mother and then decide to abort the fetus! I wouldn't want to be in that situation because, as we all know, having a baby is the biggest time in everyone's life, I think, and everyone wants it. We also need to keep in mind that we have various ways to do so. These include some of the ways in which we can go to have a child, and it is a question of whether we should not look for all other ways before we go into this and find out how we can help people to have children because it is such an overwhelming part of life and perhaps being a person. Also asked: Is having a child really a human right? Is it human rights? I don't know. I can't answer that question. But say again and again that I really hope that we are going to have a very good discussion about this, that it will be done deeply and carefully on the welfare committee, and we will have many guests so that we can reach a conclusion and perhaps make peace. It is mentioned here on page 18. 19 That there is a need to make public peace in this matter. I'm not sure there's that kind of thing in the community. But perhaps this work will lead to our future work and the conclusion of the matter so that people can be content with this bill and a system of laws for the benefit of doing good.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u57	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. He raised some very important questions that I think the committee must go through very carefully. I don't think the committee alone is allowed to do that, but she has to do it in a very open way. I know there are others who agree that we need to talk to the community more about this. This isn't something I think society is necessarily ready to take on one, two and ten. You need to study the matter very carefully and even discuss it at open meetings or hold a good meeting, and have it as open as possible and provide as much information as possible. I'd like to think a few things up with something. Senator. There are a lot of things I'm worried about in this case. There's one thing I want to mention specifically, and that's the question of starting somewhere. I understand that men are trying to set certain boundaries. This bill gives me a lot of thought, even though I disagree with the entire entity. For example, they are trying to limit their financial relationship. They say: The cost may be paid only three times, which is well defined at the outset. Then other items come in like loss of employment, i.e. The person must leave the labour market before and even after he is born. In some cases, a woman may become physically ill from childbirth and become an invalid, unable to work normally in a job market afterward. Then you ask yourself, " What happens then? ' Then who will take it? These questions are immensely motivating. This could lead to later exposure to a bill that would have to be handled in some way and thus expand clearance to increase financial relations and then we would be out of business. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u58	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. This is one of these important questions: Where is the person to look for, and what happens to the person? It does not say where to look, and these questions are not answered. This is one of the things I think we have to look for answers to the committee. It is natural to realize that when you're winning bills, they can be changed. These may be the most urgent questions, but there are an amazing number of them. I don't have all of them, but it's been shown here that there's an incredible number of them. We must look for answers to them and find answers to them. You have to be absolutely clear about what happens to the person in case of a situation like this. Who will accept it? Is it health or welfare? Who's gonna take the person if it gets so broken after this? I completely agree with the senator that a big presentation needs to be made. Of course, it's been a lot in the discussion, but it only needs to be looked up on Google to find an amazing amount of articles on the subject, so there's been a lot of discussions in society. I believe there must be a very broad and good presentation in this case, e.g. to achieve the general social reconciliation that is spoken of. In my mind, the child's interests are always meant to weigh very much, but of course, the interests of the surrogate mother are of enormous importance. This is a very difficult situation. I don't know how to describe it, it's very difficult to deal with it. This has grown to such an extent that we must be thoroughly careful and take into consideration all opinions and then try to find the best possible results.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u59	A respectable president. I agree with what. Senator. I also agree that in time, of course, the child's interests will grow heavier. I've wondered before how it will affect the child's sense of identity when he is living his life because we know that the complications of today's family pattern can have a powerful impact, so that's just saying. Besides, I've got to come in like a dog. A senator mentioned, however, that we still need to meet in some way the request behind us. Many in the community want to start a family with children but cannot. Hv. A senator mentioned the need for us to review other options. For example, I think we have too many fences when it comes to assisted reproduction techniques. She's also an enormous animal. I think the state should consider whether it can be more supportive of families that do so and then the adoptions. Why do we have weight - changing requirements? I think age is too low for what life age in Iceland is high, and so on. The question is, Should we not look at all of this together and try to help out and support families who will then adopt or otherwise so that there can be a practical advantage for people in this country on an even greater scale?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u60	A respectable president. I agree completely with what. Senator. We need to go through this process all along and wonder how we can do this better. It may not be necessary to tell a few people that all around the world are children, who have no place in their heads and who are left in refugee camps and anywhere else. Often, when I think about these matters, I ask myself, " Why don't we do better? ' Why do we not somehow try to help people adopt children so that they will be much easier than they are today simply because of the driving needs of the world around them, and especially now when we look at the daily news of the disasters that refugees and refugees have to endure and the incredible numbers of children who are alone? Besides, it's also about people wanting small children, preferably as young as possible. There are all kinds of these things that come into this, that need to be examined. I'd like us to look into this whole thing without any notice and in cooperation. This is the important thing: We must not be arguing over it. Well, that's my opinion, anyway. We need to examine this from all angles and especially listen to professionals who handle these matters, including ethicists who have pointed out that the matter is entirely on the verge of defending themselves. It's been shown in good talks today. I have the hope that we can discuss this wisely.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u61	President. We'll discuss a bill to correct local surrogacy, and I'd like to use this opportunity to thank you for the discussion as far as it will go so far. It has largely identified the complexity and complexity of the subject, but it has also raised very persistent questions about why we are in our present place, i.e. Why on earth are we dealing with such a bill? Why are we particularly concerned with legalizing allowing localization in Iceland when countries around us have not concluded that this is good? Why are we in that situation, despite the fact that moral questions have not yet been answered, that here is a administrative bill that will likely need to be discussed and that needs to be carried out on a political course? This has been discussed and discussed in detail. I would especially like to mention three things that have to do with all the key lines, so to speak. I think it's very important not to lose sight of what this is all about, not just the transfers and technicalities, some committees and things, but what we're talking about. I think we're basically talking about three things. First, it's the conflict that a person needs for many times and frequently in front of technical progress, and then I'd like to put at least a good deal of progress, i.e. the human tendency to want to do what technology allows before passing through the moral questions that technology involves. Such technology has sometimes gone far ahead of us. We have come so far into experimentation with the human body and our existence long before we have realized whether we are on the right track and whether we are in some way losing sight of what it means to be alive, what it means to be a person. It may be that in a matter like this, we are much closer to the core of human existence than in many other matters we are considering here. It is important that we do not lose sight of it. This is point number one; because it can be done, we do it, and because we do it, we have to make laws about it. That is the argument that I have stumbled on, and more have mentioned. The big number two that has also been discussed here is a question of the right to have children and right to have family and right to be part of such a relationship. It can never be considered correct in the sense that the purpose of the sacred medicine can be extended, that every way is justified in having children, but that we need to maintain our consciousness in the face of moral opinions there, as in the technical setting. But I would like to sit in my speech preferably with the feminic views, i.e. the opinions of how we view women and men and how this bill deals with that discussion, with the sex - sex system, and with different positions of sex, and not only in this country, where women's position is more measurable than in most parts of the world, but everywhere. The systematic discrimination found in all countries, all classes, all community groups, and all genders is about the systematic situation of men being the head of women. And then I'm talking about a system. I'm not talking about individuals, I'm talking about systems. I'm talking about a community like what we live in Iceland, where we have a special place run by subterranean movements, and we're trying to turn women away from violence at home, defending them from violence at home. I'm talking about a community that has become the longest in the world on equality, but there's another place called Stepamoth, which is mainly the place for women who have been raped or who have become sexually abused and who have to seek help and support and who are leading to the process of working out their problems. These places are not about helping people. These places are about dealing with systematic ills, dealing with ills that pervades our community, though it is a long time in equality. This same community also enjoys sexual pay, prepares for women who are subject to professional men, and then we are not talking about the different positions of women in the media, about community power, employment, or other public factors. I say that the day we can close off the women's shelter, the day we can close the Kports, the day that so many women as men are in power in the community, the day the sex pay difference has been cut off, the day that sex has been passed, maybe we'll put the basics on schedule. Earlier, this is not possible because a surrogate bill is about trying to write a law, one of the highest levels of the subsidiary of women. Women can hardly be more involved than by legalizing their reproductive organs, writing down to the law code how to use them, and how to use the uterus, the reproductive organs to achieve the aims of someone else. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] It is one of the most difficult challenges for meineists to face because it is invisible to so many places, it permeates society everywhere, that is what our girls are dealing with. With the comments of Iceland's Feminist Association on the Synod's Syllabics Act, I advise all members of the Parliament to read it in a very clear way because it is spoken in a very clear way by a Swedish woman named Kajsa Ekis Ekman. She says, with permission from the President, and with the translation of Drífa Snædal Valley: ▪ Is this a simple matter? No. Do we give in to pressure? Yeah, steady and steady. The goal, however, is always to be the same, otherwise we can bury the equal struggle right away. Is it not otherwise the basis for the equality struggle, that women should not be tools in the hands of others, whether fathers, mates, Vaticans, lonely men, men with power, men without power, men, or unfertilized women? We are to have sex when we want to have children when we want to. We're not machines, we're not natural resources. The opposition to surrogacy simply centers on our right to be whole human beings. This text, centered on feminist analysis, is very emotional. It is emotionally charged because it touches the core of what the sex - equal struggle is all about. Therefore, the bill is a law on surrogacy, not an ordinary political subject and not a technical subject, and not a subject that can be discussed as any other political opinion, but a subject that is taking a big step back in the battle for the gender's equality. It is a step that I cannot see that the Allied Council of Iceland will take and, most certainly, the Allied Council of Iceland, so near as it has never been closer to being as appointed men and women. Such a panorama can't be achieved in a country far beyond any other country in the world of gender and equality.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u62	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize health insurance law, No. 112/2008, with subsequent changes, and administrations, No. 93/1994, with subsequent changes. This is the main objective of implementing the European Parliament's Directive and the Council from 9 March 2011 on the patient's rights to cross-border health services and the Commission's 20 December 2012 directive on measures to facilitate the recognition of prescriptions published in other Member States. It is also proposed to add the law to the definition of the term 'generally acceptable medical treatments' and to the recommendation of the Council's agent that the term needs to be explained more accurately by the law. The bill includes the change that medical care is granted to health care professionals in the European Economic Area. The target of the directive is to provide access to a secure national quality of health services, provide free flow of patients within the Union, and contribute to the co-operation of health care between Member States. The directive does not affect the responsibility of Member States to provide its citizens with safe and efficient quality health care. By means of the implementation of the directive, on the right of patients for national health care services, health care professionals are given the authority to choose to attend health care for other EEA countries and receive the cost of reimbursement from Iceland's health insurance to the extent that they would receive if they had received the services in this country. The requirement for reimbursement is that the same kind of service is part of the service that health insurance is participating in paying in the country. The current requirement for the public and for the irreversibly conditions of applying for a precipitating agreement for attending the service to another EEA was considered a barrier to free flow of service within the Union, and by the phrase of the requested directive, they were excluded. However, the directive gives special authority for the state to set up pre-contract requirements and to allow a review of the bill to allow it to be unregistered. The decision was made on the other hand when considering the role of a national contact with the implementation of the directive and after consultation with Iceland's Medical Insurance that will take place in the implementation of the directive. The bill suggests that there will be a change in pharmaceutical laws to implement the Commission's Commission Directive on measures to facilitate the recognition of prescriptions produced in other Member States. With this change, the prescription will no longer be a valid prescription for the physician, dentist or veterinary surgeon who have a valid medical license in this country, but will administer prescriptions by physicians, dentists and veterinary surgeons with a valid medical license in the EEA Member States, however, according to the requirements for prescribing and dispensing the product. The current bill requires the right of health care professionals to choose to go to a different state of health care in the European Economic Area. In that case, Iceland's health insurance is made to repay expenses such as health care in the country, provided that similar services are paid for in the country. The bill emphasizes that there is equality in the management of patients and that services are provided according to their need for health care rather than on the basis of which state they are guaranteed. Furthermore, the evaluation by the government is not common for patients to prefer to be served outside the landstones. A large proportion of patients within the EEA Convention receive health care in their own country and prefer to do so. Under certain circumstances, it may be more convenient for individuals to cross-border service, especially for areas close to the border of shorter lengths to cross-border service than in the Member States. The nature of the matter, however, does not apply here in Iceland. There may also be situations in which individuals choose to be close to their partners and therefore want to attend services in another EEA country. Such cases may arise in this country, and it may be expected that individuals who have moved here from other Member States might consider attending services in their native home country near their relatives. However, the extent to which it might become remains unclear. A respectable president. I have now explained the fundamental elements of the bill, but the changes proposed here are legal improvements for health care professionals who intend to attend medical services to other countries in the European Economic Area. So, allow me to suggest that the bill be at the end of the 1st. Refer to the welfare committee and 2nd Environment Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u63	V.E.G. President. Consolation of the implementation of this directive went through the State Department of State at the last Parliament and we on the welfare committee granted review on that matter. In the opinion of the State Department, the President's permission is: The request to attend such services is permitted to be denied - as health care above national borders - ▪ Other if it can be given in a country within a time period that can be justified medically in taking into account the circumstances. I'd like to ask the minister because I think it's important: Will the Minister take advantage of the authority that there's a set time limit so that if there's a waiting limit and a person can see that they can go beyond any particular month, they can get this warrant and otherwise not? Will not such limitations be new? I don't feel like I'm seeing it on the bill, but I'm wondering because it's important to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u64	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. This is an important question. From this point on, the bill is as follows that it is not needed in advance. Among other things, we find the example in Norway. The same is done in Finland and Sweden. However, the surgeon general works on a set set set set set of criteria for a suitable or normal waiting period in Icelandic health care. We haven't exactly nailed it down. However, it is clear to me that, from the uncertainty of how this right will be used, the greatest pressure on this source lies in the context of a waiting list in Icelandic health care. As they grow longer, the more likely it is that the court recommended in the bill as it is here will be new. I reiterate, and it also shows in the bill with the bill from the financier, that it is extremely uncertain as to both the financial aspects of the implementation of the bill in the bill and even more so that it is almost completely uncertain as to how much this court will be used. This assessment may come primarily from it. We are totally blind to the sea, but we can no longer escape this directive.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u65	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the answer, but I find this very unfortunate, especially in the light of the degree of uncertainty about how much this will be used. I'll be in my speech on a further show. We don't think it's going to be much used, but we don't know anything about it. Icelanders travel widely. Many stay a part of a year elsewhere, and I wonder if this is not to be asked for advance consent. Then we need to be clear about what we give patients about what we consider to be a normal time limit in the list. While we do not have general rules about what is acceptable waiting time, I feel that it is unnatural to open up these possibilities without any agreement. I ask: Why was it decided not to agree in advance even though Norway decided to do so?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u66	A respectable president. You know, about a question or two. There's a senator's criteria for a suitable waiting period. It has been discussed here in a discussion of how to work on a waiting list in Icelandic health care, with the national surgeon's criteria being carried out, of course, within three months, depending on the urgency of the task. The main line is still that. I remember this discussion about this and the cost story the last time this was discussed with the writer's and the Δbatir, which must be put out of pre-contraction with such a thing, it is quite costly and costly. In addition to the warnings I have at this expense, it is possible that in view of the information we have on the experience of Austria, the Netherlands, Sweden, Finland, and Norway, this law will be more successful than its requirement for pre-contraction. This is the opinion of the experts with this matter. On this basis, the matter is now made up of a change in the requirement for preconvention.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u67	V.E.G. President. As I was in earlier, a welfare committee discussed this case when a foreign matter committee sent the case to us when we were discussing a Senate hearing that authorized the introduction to this directive. There was a division of meanings, and perhaps it was not least the uncertainty that made it difficult for us to do so. Of course, this directive is because there are many European countries that have borders on one another, and although people live in France may be shorter to a good hospital in Belgium than they are in France, there are different ways. What I'm worried about is that we have a health system where we don't even control patients' patients. We have not been able to get control of the health system. We have a subsidized health care facility, and I'm going again and again to use this opportunity and to express my appreciation for the psychiatric services there on the budget bill, but we need to go much further. One health committee said that as many as 80 medical doctors were needed for health care to function properly. Then there are health - care professionals, nutritionists, psychologists, and others who are looking for a decent teamwork. It's health care. She's a little underprivileged. And when Boston Consulting came here to take out the health system, they were amazed to see that there is no gate guard. Here people can arrange for any doctor to have a very expensive service without any restrictions. Such free flows are hardly routine in any other country. Then we have the Land Hospital, which is in great difficulty, business problems, and a great need for maintenance as a result of the last decade's surgery and the nation's growth. But then we have independent, active specialists who just open up a town service and start serving patients and get money in accordance with an agreement. I'm really worried that even though we don't seem to be able to control our own health systems, have an individual interest in us -- I wish I could tell you that this was just a problem for the present government, but I can't get away with it, this is long-term development, that the system has been in an independent growth and not a sustainable growth - is now to be home to people, without the limit of waiting time and that, going abroad, looking for medical treatment. We know that those who are the weakest and who need the most services are usually people with less income, less money between their hands, that's how it is in general. There is a threat to their current situation that they can pursue health care abroad, which, of course, will be paid from a government fund, and the funds are thus set aside to place money in health care, land hospitals, the Hospital in Akureyri, as well as all health institutions around the country. I'm not going to say that these concerns are unconvinced, but this is part of what we need to go over to the Committee, and I think one of us is going to have to have some of the surgeon's evaluations of what these risks might be. No doubt this is also part of the written language. The minister here points to other countries that have gone this way, and this has proved to be a successful arrangement, and I'm not going to question it, but I'm not questioning it, but my concern is that the funding of Icelandic health systems is not always a need to be controlled by the budgets but to offer to the experts or to any other government, and it's about to be here now one more charge in which the World Health Organization, where the World Congress cannot limit the flow unless there is a public interest - I don't know what it takes to be a serious situation - and I don't know what it's still has to get out of the public health system. Maybe I'm such a pessimist, but I'm worried about the situation in the Icelandic medical system, and I think it has more than I do. We need to stand alert to our health care systems, build them up and strengthen them in places where they are most practical, and best cared for not just the state funds but the people, the people who use our medical services, and the eyes that I will consider.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-20-23.u68	Madam President. Also, I shall not have long talk about this matter at this point, and I shall be able to consider it on a committee if the proposal is given. Minister, to proceed with the welfare committee, it will be agreed. It has not always been so to trust in this council in the last days, months or years, but let's think about it and that it will be our responsibility to deal with this only on the ideal committee, where I am working. First, there is only reason to put this matter into ideological or political context. It can be seen from two sides. On the one hand, as well as some of it, that in many ways, patients or those needing health care may be given legal treatment to receive it and be paid anywhere in the European Economic Area. But there is also another side of the matter, and it is driven away not only by concern for patients and their interests. This is, of course, part of the joint development and market development that certain forces are driving in the European Union, and the major steps have been taken following reviews in which the competitive, market-based policy is being followed, eliminates the emphasis of the individual EU Member States on the well-being of emphasis or health policy. And this is a source of the development of increasingly viewing this type of service, this field, as market products that should be subject to the laws of supply and demand and competition, not as social welfare services. So there is good reason to stop. Now our scope is expected, on account of our EEA situation, to be limited to do anything other than bring this in here or worse, as we know. Yet, by this decree it is entrusted with some space to choose ways in the induction process, and that may be what we did best to focus our eyes on here, since it can have an effect on us. I'll agree with your last piece. A speaker, a chairman of a welfare committee, would say that there are many questions left by me. To be honest with you, I'm only thinking about the costume this comes from the highest. Ministry. It is said that this is an example from Norway. All right, and as far as it goes, it can be done. But then there is the question about the basic health structure, where the induction is linked, and it differs in different countries. In Norway, reference activities are greatly affected by the fact that there is control in the process into a more specialized health care provider because you need a reference from your home physician or clinic, but unfortunately it is not here. Here it is to implement this without pre-communication, without any control on whether it is the default thing that anyone can take his own initiative and go to health care and get paid afterwards and without your needing a special prescription or clinic to go into the position where you need special solutions. I guess you could say, by a few rights, that we're choosing one of the most freeliest sources of what we've ever seen. In Sweden, as shown in the package leaflet, it is not requested in advance. In fact, it was installed something that is some sort of optional agreement. It is possible to inform authorities in advance that they intend to attend this service so that authorities know about it, and it may be a good premise, but this is not a direct agreement. The Finns may not either, but in some way make a clearer distinction between the rights and rights of the directive or its Regulation, and this may also apply and be worth it here, not just the introduction of the directive itself, but the regulations that a minister is authorized or authorised to set. I have to admit, I'm not particularly impressed with this case, and especially if the introduction is to be this way. A clear distinction must be made between at least three. It is, first of course, and, of course, if this service is not available at all in this country and it is as if it is not new, except that we have, on the basis of agreements, the country has the potential to bring it to specialized large health institutions in neighboring countries, and we have a system to keep our hands on it. As far as I know, a so-called cruise board still operates, and she goes over and appreciates the need for a man to obtain a release from his foreign affairs. This will all disappear by means of this type of induction. If the right of each one is to go and pursue the ministry, he must be able to overlook that system. V.E.G. So a minister did right in explaining this to us on what controls will still be involved. But it seems to me, in any case, that it is wise to approach this and consider this from a few basic situations. This is first of all: How, in this new environment, will be provided for the services that are not at all offered here in the country, are so specialized, animal, or nature that it is not in our power to build up and provide it, which is, of course, a question of what ambitions men have to build here built up progressive and comprehensive health systems. Not necessarily long ago, cardiac operations moved into the country, etc. Second, in the area where waiting is excessive, where the waiting period is out of place because we simply haven't built up enough efficiency, did not provide enough funds for any particular sector, orthopaedic or what it is now, so waiting time is enormously long. Then, of course, there is the view that it is reasonable to consider the status of the victims, those who wait in such cases, and the directive obviously to ensure that they can obtain a solution elsewhere. But when it comes to the third and long largest group of these are most popular - there is action and service available here, with no unusual waiting time left. And is it possible to open without controls that even such services can help those who want to go abroad to receive the equivalent cost of paying back and to perform the ministry here? Who, in turn, are most likely to take advantage of this? Of course, it's better than that, because it's absolutely correct with the government financial office that the cost and effort of attending public health care are involved in that. However, those who do not have to look at the cost may well ponder, and they are most likely to do so. Maybe they want to go to a nice hospital, go to a fancy private hospital, and they're paying for the difference. Maybe they won't wait three months or four months and go out. It should not be that this judicial act will be primarily in behalf of those whom we usually have to worry about, those who are more materially and/or otherwise in order to pursue this service over the rocks, even if at any cost? So how can it affect us here and here? Is it possible that this will reduce the ambition of the government to build up and provide service here at home because it will always be possible to refer to this collapse? You can only go abroad. Yeah, well, there's a little bit of waiting in that operation, but they can just go abroad. I think all these questions need to be discussed, and this case calls for it to be done. It's a certain road we're on here, that's for sure. Instead of being on this control, and that in general it has not been the case, that I know that this cost is reimbursed by our insurance, unless it is based on the fact that it has been agreed on for the reasons that the action or service must be carried out abroad or that people have been abroad and had to go to an emergency service there, etc., but not that men could just decide it all at once, now I'm going to have to have lapd up on me here or there or there and I'll just scrap to the Netherlands or Britain, and I'll have done it and send it to the highest level. Kristján's health minister Þór's bill. This has not been so, so it is a significant breakthrough that we should take into account. I think it's important if we approach this kind of thing in this way that we're past the place of setting things up. This has been taken into the joint EEA committee and agreed on it, and there's been a resolution of that introduction and here's the correct place and the right time, and the right time in the months to do well over who's the most reasonable input on this and to what extent we're going to use the sources there to set up rules and have them on some kind of control. Of course, I would be very happy if I came to the conclusion that it was best to establish some kind of reference duty. I'd rather have it systemic, but only if it was only that a certain reference duty would be built in which the cost for patients would be greater, i.e. that those who sought more specialized service on the basis of references from a family physician would see that they were less involved in the expense of the expert service they were entering. There's an intervening point of such a reference duty that I think would be a minimum of the wisdom of looking over here and having a part in the discussion on this subject. I don't think it's past the fact that the part of our health costs that we've been most concerned with, and that's as if nothing new in history, is the expert service and the private expertise services, which for some strange reasons always seem to find ways to send bills to the state around the wheel and any savings, and even the cuts and difficulties of the ages, for example. To some extent, it may also be the cost of medication, which has often been very difficult to contain, but for which, there are also valid reasons; often, it has been growing with new medicines and demands that they are taken. It's different with open taps that are present in the system. All of this, in my opinion, we could gain better control if we had a whole-scale system, more powerful and better structured basic health care services, which are probably the largest individual healthcareal failures in Iceland not to have much more powerful control than it is, and especially here in the capital area where the work was never finished on the basis of the health law of the '70s to build up the health care system, unfortunately, and then to have some kind of reference, some kind of control, some sort of delinquency, or something like this. I now wanted to be present and set aside my time on a welfare committee in connection with this matter's discussion. I'm not going to promise anything about supporting this bill at the highest level. The health minister so unsatisfactory. I hope to the highest. So a minister would be pleased to ask us here, the chairman of a welfare committee, and now I have various ideas about things to consider and, of course, leave us with the right to make adjustments in the matter according to events.
