ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u1	To answer, financial and economic ministers, health ministers, industrial and commercial ministers, and environmental and resource ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u2	A respectable president. V.E.G. In recent losses, a industrial minister declared that it is important to have this discussion open and all views on the tables. I agree with the highest. Minister on the importance of this. I'd like to take advantage of this opportunity to enter the highest. Minister for information on a research program carried out by Landsnet, the blood kin of the Continent. It is an assessment of the construction of high-voltage cables in the transport system at certain locations in the country, including transport ability, dependability, and cost. The president of the Landsnets has revealed that this study is ongoing and that its results were expected in this fall, i.e. in September 2014, but it comes even ... ina letter he sent to Akureyritown for the last year. We are now in the treatment of the General Assembly two cases, one of the nuclear power bill and another a proposal for a hearing of government policy on the fixation of electrical lines. We know that there have been some debates about land cables, especially since what they really are worth, whether they are technically possible and if they are necessary, i.e. due to environmental effects. Of course, I am among those who believe that it is very important that we pay for the laid down of ground cables, especially from aesthetic viewpoints with our vastness and all the important nature that we have an obligation to protect. The Parliamentary decrees place an expense roof at 1.5 on how much more expensive ground cables can be than air lines to cross their heads and consider reasonable options, i.e. 50% more expensive. So I think it's very important that I have new information on cost, as the president of the Landsnet has reported in responses to Akureyritown to be examined, that the information is available to the Council before we submit proposals in which we agree to ground lines. So I ask the highest. Minister if she is aware of the possibility of these findings and whether I do not agree that it is very important to have a presentation of them before this issue is completed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u3	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator of this inquiry. It is true in her inquiry that the treatment of a professional committee is now a proposal for a government resolution policy. The guide for that work is just to try to promote further reconciliation with these issues, with the objective that we can improve the electrical system and strengthen the electrical energy system, while taking into consideration the views we need to consider, both from the cost of transport that the company has today and also from other viewpoints that are always more important in this discussion, including the environmental issues, including the views of other occupations such as tourism and so on the streets. The report as dog. A senator refers to Landsnet's property as the best awareness in the final meters. They're working on finals, working on the extraction and other wastes, and I understand that they should be left in early February. I think that a professional health - care committee will get that report on the subject and take it into account before being resolved from the Committee, as it is only before the end of this council that we can get these matters to a good pace.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u4	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister very much for these answers. I believe that there is a very important statement that it has made here that it is working on the finals of the report and that it is. The employment committee will get it covered before we settle these cases, electronic bill, and a concierge proposal on a ground cord. We must not forget that the ground-stranding committee arranged according to the II Parliamentary resolution was aimed at increasing the geologic exchange for environmental reasons. How important it is that we keep that goal in mind as high as possible! The minister rightly pointed out these matters not only to economic costs but also to social and environmental goals. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers and consider it important. We expect us to wait for the report before we finish working on these huge cases. And I want to reiterate it and wait for the highest. Minister to enter it in his later reply that I believe we have a very large decision ahead of us when it comes to accepting an electronic law as well as the Congress resolution proposal I mentioned. [[The president calls.]] I think the development of the transport system was crucial for the future, so I think we need to work on those issues. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u5	A respectable president. I agree with what. Just trying to reconcile these views with the goal of this work is the task of a senator. We know that in order to ensure a country's residence, in order to ensure a strong working life, in order to ensure that we can live here, we have to have a strong and secure electrical system that is in the country, but we don't want to do it at the expense of other important interests, such as uninhabited and otherwise. But we also need to bear in mind, and it says in this work, that earthlines may not always be the most environmentally friendly option. There is also a view that needs to be considered, e.g. if you pass through uninhabited lava, you will be irreversibly affected by the fixing of ground cables. All of these views will be guided, and the aim is to instruct the shipping company from us at the legislation of this and the power to compare and make decisions based on more views than costs. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u6	A respectable president. Now it is clear to everyone that the heads of the administrations have a completely different policy in the nation's largest interests; an act of parbals and abduction of currency. This is serious, for the government needs to have a clear and united policy in the largest economic situation of the day. It is therefore inevitable to ask the highest question. Secretary of finance on whether or not, whether the prime minister or financial minister of this subject is a matter. Prime Minister has recently declared that there will be a step step off during this month, January, but secretary of finance says it will be during the first half of the year, i.e. in June. Which is it? Prime Minister has declared the need for these contracts beyond current bank taxes to be significantly improved by the demands of the damage done to the state's funds due to the collapse of the bank. The minister of finance, however, has declared that the purpose of this operation is not a collection of income for the state's funds. That's right, topv. Secretary of finance? Is the goal of earning hundreds of billions of dollars, or is it not the goal of earning money? The third factor is the highest. The prime minister has declared that the status of the homes in the country is absolutely a requirement for decommission, that they will not be affected in the event of decommissionment. V.E.G. The minister of finance declared this day or day before yesterday that we would just have to take the jump in good faith. I'm asking the highest. Secretary of finance: Is it possible to understand this differently from the view that it is inevitable to take a measure of risk to the homes of the country? Whether this is the case, Prime Minister's statement that the status of the households is guaranteed or that it is necessary to be decommissioned. Secretary of finance that we must take the jump in good faith?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u7	Mr. President. I have to say, I have a bad feeling. A senator has gone quite far in his attempt to find a gap between the management policies of the currency burglary. The fact is, there is good cooperation between the classes and an excellent walk in the work that has now taken place for about a year and a half, so I refuse that the classes have a completely different course. Regarding the primary objective we are trying to achieve, the point being referred to is that it is important that the status of the households be secured. But at the same time, we must recognize that we cannot make decisions that will be independent of any uncertainty, i.e. We can figure out about what we think will happen in the past, but we'll never be 100% safe. That's what I'm referring to when I say we have to make a decision eventually. This is not merely an account exercise to determine which actions will be most effective. If there is a question about the purpose of this question, it is to maintain economic stability. In this context, what has been mentioned about the homes in the country is important to protect them from further fluctuations. In this discussion, let us not forget that in 2009 and after that, home became an enormously power reduction. The work in the country also suffered a devastating blow. The actual cost of the crown was greatly reduced, and we have gradually been trying to recover the money lost in these tragedies. As we take these steps, it is clear that we need to maintain the stability that has been maintained. With regard to income or what needs to happen, it has been in the past for many years that the main reason for the oceans is several hundred billion pressures. We need to remove pressure from them by means of the best way we can do so. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u8	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The secretary of finance to confirm this here that he believes that the status of the households cannot be guaranteed in the custody of what the prime minister has declared. Likewise, the goal is, not a substantial income raise for the state's funds, but a stable state for the country. Then I have to ask about some other statements. Prime Minister has declared that it is not possible to have discussions with demands or worn out, but the highest. The secretary of finance sent a special emissary to meet them. I'll be on the count of the highest. Secretary of finance to negotiate with the demands, or is that out of the question, as the prime minister has declared? During the past year, the prime minister also stated that if there were no annual contracts available, it would be inevitable this year to examine the bankruptcy route, as it would likely be possible to see that the approach of contracts could be made. It's the highest. The secretary of finance agreed with prime minister that it is now necessary to consider the bankruptcy route? Is he in agreement with the candidates of the Future Party... who have expressed themselves that all the demands of the Icelandic bank account can be paid...? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u9	Mr. President. There are too many questions here to help me cope with all of them. First thing about conversation with the demands. There is no way for the Icelandic government to work in some form of negotiations on what adjustment would take place after execution. That won't be negotiated. We will form our own opinion of what needs to be done in order to allow the property of the broilers and other possessions outside the oceans, whether those of the Off-counters or other crowns that want to get out of the Icelandic economy. Once we have reached that conclusion, we do not agree on it. That can't be a deal. It would be consistent, then, that we were going to negotiate the shock we had in mind to bombard our homes and our jobs in the country. We will never do that. However, we are always ready to listen. One of the things I think we may need to understand more about are things that can help the broils finish the job contract. If there are laws or other things that can help with such things, I think we should take action. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u10	A respectable president. Since 2009, government funds have paid over 670 million to private officers Fosstel and Sinum Ehf. for the management of emergency hotels in the capital area. This is shown in the response of the health minister to my written inquiry from Christmas. Last October, an invitation was completed by the same injury, in which the hospital's hotel show was invited out for the next three years. The government funds will build the hospital on the property of the Land Hospital. This time, Cinnar ehf was prepared, which was actually the only party to invite. Last week, in the news of Halt 2 last week, an interview with the God - given Guðlaug of Rakel Guðjónsdóttir, director of the flow site of Land Hospital, was made interesting in her language. She described that the building of a hospital hospital hospital's hospital property was well compatible with a vision of the improvement in economy and better management of the Land Hospital, but it was in nature that for the benefits and benefits to be returned from the hospital to the hospital, the hospital itself would be the best thing to do. For the sake of their word, and because the Minister has now offered a private service, I would like to ask the highest degree. The Minister how the whole case took place in his Ministry on his watch. Before the decision was made, how many stage shots of the medical hotel were listed in the Ministry? What were the advantages and shortcomings when a decision was made? For example, what cost was considered to be at the Land Hospital in accepting this service? Cinderelly will host the night of the 19,529s. Was land hospital getting any higher or lower? Were other aspects taken into consideration in this regard, such as economic management and management?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u11	A respectable president. Whatever it is. A senator here raises questions about the hospital, and I'm both obliged and delighted to discuss them. The state has never run a hospital hotel, hasn't done it, it was the Red Cross and Fosstel, and then it was offered out right now. First, a free 2010 invitation was made when Cinnar was assigned to the business, and then the National Hospital has served in that room. Also, the Cinrye now became the only candidate to the tender auction last year. The Ministry's orders to health insurance were to start discussions with the Land Hospital for business in the hotel. They talk and are not finished. There's a certain question about this discussion that I understand. I don't have any details about it. There is a meeting in those words, or it begins at a time. 11 Between the Ministry and Iceland's Medical Insurance on this matter, which includes discussing the possibility that the hospital will continue the services he had at the hospital. I don't know the stage shots I have. A senator is asking about it, of course, can call for it from health insurance. What I'd like to say at the end about that interview as a matter of course. A senator quoted one of the directors at the National Hospital for the new plans for the hospital, but no decision has been made on which the structure of the building to be established and put the job hospital on the property of the Land Hospital. There are no decisions in this regard. Even if the hospital is talking about it, as in this case, that the hospital should build it and fire it, no decisions have been made. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u12	A respectable president. V.E.G. A health minister should know these and other scenarios, of course, to have them done. I'm amazed the minister didn't have LSH's minds examined to run this service. What the minister says about the business arrangement, that not all knots there, of course not, are expected to run the hotel part in this hospital hotel, the company has been negotiated. It's good and blessed if it comes out better than anything else, it's all right, but then we have to know, there's got to be a lie. It is irresponsible to have not done that. I'm calling for better practice in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u13	A respectable president. Of course, I've checked the minds of the executives to see if they want to run a medical hotel. That's in the middle of nowhere. for these reasons, they were directed to health insurance to discuss service to the hospital. However, it has been very recent since 2010, later on on as a caller, to negotiate with Detectives for the management of a health care unit. That procedure was repeated last year, and Sinum was the only company that invited, and a similar agreement was made. All we have to do now is who is going to serve the patients or guests at the same nursing hotel. However, it should be noted that this hotel is not a medical facility. This is a medical hotel. During the discussion or at work, we cannot expect a patient to stay in the seasons to be in a medical facility. He's at the hospital. [[The president calls.]] This must be kept in mind when both the land hospital and others reach out for the services of the people who stay there. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u14	A respectable president. I'd like to pick up the thread that was left behind after the question. paritaprevir Björt Ólafsdóttir and here raises a question to the health minister regarding the name of the hospital hotel. This new building has been discussed in the area of the Land Hospital for a few weeks, and it seems to each one about its priorities. I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of health. As noted in his case, the contracts of the state are in force against a private hospital hotel. I'd like to know if this operation is not worth the demand today, after the service assigned to the medical hotels. As a result, I would like to know, although it is a very serious matter to trace the whole process, in short, whether there is a single concern in the hospital about this particular priorities and who contributed most to the construction of this house by means of this operation at that time. I'd like to pause a little bit at the question as a question. paritaprevir A Björt Ólafsdóttir came into the business arrangement. I got the top. A health minister just as he had not decided the business of a new operation, which the new building will include in him, about a hospital hotel?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u15	A respectable president. That's what I'm talking about. A senator here asks for, first priority, so it must be kept in mind that certain laws apply to the project called The New Landskeeper, Ohf. There are several to-dos - five, if I recall correctly, the hospital is one of them. By these laws, I win. It is expected and made in all programmes that the hospital will be the first stage of the existing construction projects. When asked who would contribute this, I don't know exactly how to do it except in the law, in all the evidence, that it is one of the projects or building projects involved in the 1st stage. When considering priorities, e.g. We'll buy some equipment, and that's why I've answered it, and especially about this so-called PET scan. If we were to engage in that work now, we would have to save it temporarily. This will take place when everything is taken into the third billion and will be estimated at a substantial cost of operating. It is much wiser to watch the overall work where this technology and innovation are expected in the treatment core. Whether we are dealing with a hospital hotel or with some medical innovation, we must bear in mind that this task, being rebuilt by the National Hospital at the Ring Road, will last as far as 2021 psalmist22022. So there is a long way in which we can face a global nation and say: Here we have a complete hospital for the purposes we are going to follow. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u16	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The health minister for the answer. I realize, and I'm sure the entire body of Congress is that this is a difficult task, especially when you see the situation and are inevitable, that some kind of buttock will be carried out by some kind of structure in this new hospital. This, of course, is a difficult task, but it must be done well in the beginning. However, I would like to call on the question that I raised earlier, and I did not get the answer, without now wanting to accept the unfashioned words of the medical analysis, which I asked if the current arrangements for the hospital operation would not be the second of the demand today, whether the highest level. A health minister would have some serious idea.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u17	A respectable president. I don't have the essential analysis we're talking about on rhythms. However, 77 rooms are expected in the building of the medical hotel. The question of the need for the building can be approached by various angles. The evaluation of the economy of the Hospital of Reconsuming Hospital and a single site of operations is estimated at 2,385 billion. K. In this economy, it is assumed that 1 billion, 1,000 million, are caused by hospital and daily and walking units. The need for this economy up to a billion dollars for the Land Hospital operation, I believe, is dissociative. We've got enough money for medical purposes. If this works, I assure them that it is justified to engage in a project that will include the ability to adapt in this way to a national function. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u18	A respectable president. I want to go to the highest. Environmental and resource minister according to the way it views marine resources in relation to the discussion of other natural resources. Of course, the use of natural resources calls for perspective and policy, and there are more resources in our country than are energy resources that have been very recently discussed. Fishing resource is a resource that produces large fruits but does not bring back to society what would be worth if it were well done. It could be much more basic to social building in the country than is experienced. A 2012 resource policy report highlights the social dimension of sustainable development, as it is said, and encourages the consideration of factors such as the equation and democratic control of resources, to observe that the growth potentials for those based directly on resource efficiency and consideration for the right of future generations are being developed. In Iceland, we have no resource resources and the resources of resources and the management of resources that come from resources is not in one place. Therefore, I'd like to enter a minister after her vision on this aspect of the matter, whether she felt that there would be a fund of resources that would cover all the resources that the country has for the land and the sea, a fund with a purpose for social building.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u19	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Ólína the Þorvarðardóttir daughter is eager for this inquiry. It's really nice to have her here, because at last government meeting, I introduced a memo that we needed to improve cooperation in this field. At the same time, you notice that there's a lot of fermentation in the community and we have to come to defend our ocean, this wonderful resource. I'd like to assume that perhaps the main basis for the establishment of the Environment Ministry was to protect this resource of ours, the sea that has always been the principal foundation of our economy. Of course, there are threats, especially since in recent years we have had to cut very low in international cooperation. All departments have had to do that, i.e. As a result, Iceland's voice has become weaker in the international sense. It's very bad. We want to be on the lead there, but not after the boat of others to be told. There are countless factors that need to be considered that when it comes to the sea, the Ministry, whose aim is to promote the best cooperation between members in order to become more powerful and, especially, link us to one another into society. We see the marine mall moving forward, and there are a lot of companies involved. Other companies are more concerned with pollution of the ocean, which is also linking themselves, and we should be able to do this in cooperation. [[The president calls.]] Teamwork, I think, is more a password than creating a special fund.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u20	A respectable president. I appreciate your answer. Minister. I must say, in itself, I celebrate the tone the Minister has struck, that it must come in defense of nature and the resources to the land and sea because that is the tone that has not been struck in the order of the season. I fear that he may soon be choked when the debate begins to focus more on the energy resources. I'm saying there's an enormous number of factors involved in the use of fish resources, e.g. in connection with the northern district talk. This may conflict with resource use interests, e.g. with regard to the ideas of oil search and use of oil. Here in the north, we have an enormous amount of interest that our fish stocks are not lost because of pollution of another use. In terms of the resource fund, if I can just step on that question a little bit more, we have so far considered our resources to be a source of income for society. [[The president calls.]] It was an act that made me feel that the minister was not getting in too well and that I prefer to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u21	A respectable president. I'm sorry if you had any trouble. A senator doesn't think I've talked about the resource as such, but I thought I was here to say that this was our main resource and that it would have been the basis for our economic affairs sooner and later, a resource we need to associate with with with with with caution and respect but, of course, a resource that we want to promote as well. We want to be the voice of both the purity and the overall industry that affects the sea on a global scale. There we want the voice of Iceland to be heard, and we think it's worth a fortune. As far as the northern regions are concerned, it is certainly good for us to have a bearing on them, but there is also a threat. Americans are taking over there, and we know they rejected Iceland's involvement at a particular conference. I may not be supposed to call this threat, but there's only one thing about you, and the least of all, we have to strengthen ourselves so the Americans and others understand that we want to move forward and fit the sea around Iceland. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u22	A respectable president. I recommend here for a bill to legalize natural passes, on the threshing floor. 699 in case No. 455. This matter is, as I allow myself to claim that almost everyone in the country has been aware, has been in preparation for a long time, and has been well versed in the work we've seen here, the bill we've been discussing now. This issue has been even longer during the discussion, and for the sake of fun, it is possible that in the May 7, 1978, period, you can read a story where the Fégour of the custodians asks if there is any reason for the anxiety of foreign tourists in Iceland because it is lacking in Icelandic tourism. This matter has been discussed for years and decades, but in recent years, it has made changes that the number of foreign tourists coming to the country has increased dramatically and has increased each year. We can only put those numbers on. By the year 2000, there were over 300 thousand foreign tourists who had increased by 20% since the previous record year. Also, in 2008, there was a record year, at which point 500 thousand foreign tourists arrived. In recent years, we went over a million guests on the wall. Thus, in just six years, the number of tourists had increased in just 500 thousand. When foreign visitors are asked what they have come here to examine them, over 80% say that Icelandic nature is the main reason. The same is true of the Icelanders. According to a recent MMR study, nearly 70% of Iceland's population traveled outside its habitat in 2013 and the main purpose of the trip was to experience the natural world of Iceland. During this fast - growing season, it has been observed that the development of timbers in the polydiversized tourist areas has not been achieved with the rhythm of the number of tourists that we are now living in. We can no longer look at how our natural nature is damaged, both from the point of view that we, the inhabitants of this country, would like to ensure that our children, grandchildren and their descendants can enjoy this nature as we do here and also have to make sure that the experience we sell to tourists, the experience, the product that we are marketing, the Icelandic nature, is prepared for and the expectations of tourists. Tourism is an enormously important industry, with economic importance in Icelandic society. Today, it has become one of the three major financial foundations of the economy, along with fishing and energy - consuming industry. It is rapidly growing, and in many respects it is a very desirable industry for us Icelanders. It is a means of parishion, a positive development, and a real influence on national interests. In this matter there are very important opinions, and I have not concealed that. I've been traveling around the country. I think I've met at various meetings around the country in a total of 1,000 people, discussing these matters thoroughly, listening to viewpoints, and reviewing matters. I am optimistic after the discussion that we can reach a conclusion on this important matter because we need to consider what we agree on and where we have come from. We are far beyond those of just a few years ago. We all agree that we cannot observe Icelandic nature as a result of the indignities of tourists, we agree on that. Most of us would agree that currency in one form or another is not only justified but also necessary. When we say this, we must also bear in mind that because of our commitments to the EEA agreement, no matter what route we go, there is no room for discrimination among tourists according to nationality, and all are equal to the law we set. I think there are also many of us who agree that it is both normal, reasonable, and reasonable for foreign tourists to pay a larger portion for nature protection and construction at places where it is necessary. This is especially due to the rapid increase in the need for us to attack costly projects. Therefore, it is reasonable to look for ways to increase the income of international tourists coming here and increasing the number of participants in Icelandic nature protection. As I said earlier, I am convinced that there is more in this matter that unites us than what separates us from what we do. We are, in effect, reasoning and speaking to different viewpoints about the implementation of these routes, and it seems to me to be a subject that I am convinced that if we make the effort, we can reach a conclusion. Then the question is, What is the most reasonable application? What application is most likely to make peace with her? What conclusion is most likely to reach the goals we pursue? I recommend here for a bill to a natural pass which is one of the ways mentioned. It is not the only one, nor is it faultless, as is the other aspects that have been discussed, and that is what we need to bear in mind; all the means that have been discussed have been at great cost and flaw. It was my decision in the government to provide this way, to all views of the costs and shortcomings, but when this discussion is over and the case goes to the treatment of the council, it is, of course, in the authority of the Parliament to take the matter and correct it, to bring about the restoration and change as men choose. This is the way I'm putting it here for the discussion. Ragnheiður a natural pass has come up with this: a way that I've been tumbling on, as the kids would say, is that I'm going to get her through whatever it is that's gonna be. But it's not like that at all. Let's go back to 2013 when we were most of the people in this campaign. Then I remember that the subject was frequently and repeatedly discussed. The concept of natural rights was widely discussed, and most people were positive for that approach. I also remind you that at that time, and that is what we proposed for our work, there were a number of reports. Boston Consulting Group brought a detailed report on the state and future of the European tourism service, which was proposed for some sort of implementation of natural passes. The Agency's framework for improving prosperity and the McKinsey Corporation came by means of a detailed analysis of the Icelandic economy. They headed for what they called a travel card, which is closely related to what is being accomplished here on the table. I remind you that the government's eco-efficiency group directly ordered me to implement green passes for building and maintenance in multi-seasiness tourist areas. The political groups have reasoned on this, both governments in one way or another, the Gekon cluster company, a traveling club, produced similar ideas, and so on. So this is the way that has been repeatedly proposed. In order to complete a discussion of the leading issues, I would like to mention after reviewing all these reports, counting, analysis, and the number of assessments made in the tourism service in recent years, and I agreed in the government that we should implement natural passes leading to funding, building and maintenance in multi-packed tourist areas. Then we started a group of 25 different members; representatives of the stake unions, partners, and others in the article; and others who discussed and reviewed these plans. That work was designed to expand our natural rights because we had already had enough reporting on these matters. I remind you of the discussion back then, maybe it's the same discussion as it is now. The material was available, and now it was time for the ideas to be developed and carried out. That is why we took what was available and started this journey. There are many other ways. The Gistint account is one thing the members of Congress are well aware of. It was put on in the past government, but I remind you that when the then industrial minister of Katrín Júlíusdóttir's daughter introduced that bill, it was a so-called mixed way with a return fee and a bedside ransom. The Synod's rejection of the dues was largely on the grounds of national taxes. We are permitted to pass charges on tickets, but we are not permitted to differ according to nationality or distance, so the same amount would be placed on the international flight. Hence, the General rejected that route. It's probably a question of whether the Council changed my mind, but after my conversations with members of Congress, I allow myself to doubt it. As I say, the pros and cons are at all costs. What I want to do now, and use my time here, is to argue why I believe that the natural pass will meet many of the goals we set for ourselves and why the way we are put here. The natural pass for the implementation we propose here is to promote sustainable tourism and at the same time contribute to the protection of nature. We'll assume from the ideologies that they'll pay for what's good. Those who avail themselves of the infrastructure that has been built up also share in the cost of it and the future development. The natural pass will apply to all areas owned and cared for by state and rural society. By doing so, countries and rural societies are, in effect, covering their territory, saying: In areas owned and in the management of state and rural society, there will be no other collections of foreign funds. But it isn't like that, and I want to reiterate it here, that humans should have natural passes in all areas of property and management of state and rural society, as shown in the bill, but in the predefined places where a travel agency will specify in an updated and accessible list, according to Article 4. The bill. It's 10 or 12 places we know like this in the basic effects of who we are. These are the places where tourists are already under intense pressure. We've had to build wood there, and we've had to maintain it. They're places like Gold Falls, Woodroofs, Dark Towns, Skaftfells, and, yes, Þingles. Senators have been very busy, and I've been saying it before and still say that, of course, it's a strange idea to go to pay a fee to the Thieves. It is. This is our holy place, this is our national property, and we find it a foreign idea. We must not forget, though, that the Matrix is at the same time one of our richest tourist attractions, as well as the tourist resort that is at risk of being damaged most of the damage to tourists. Therefore, since 1999 it has been stated in Icelandic law that environmental protection agencies are permitted to set a specific price. I'm going to read the law on nature protection. It says, by permission of the president: In addition, a natural protection provider may be able to set a price for access to the region if it has been caused by tourists or is at risk of such damage. Let's go to the second issue of 1st. You should be protected for monitoring, repair or repair of the area, or the access to it. This law has been in the protection laws of 1999, and I'd like to remind you that in the environmental protection laws as well. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir, then environmental minister, set up here and accepted in April 2013, but have not yet come into force, as the members of the Parliament know, is the same law. Why is this law in this law? Why have we not made comments about this? This is because the legislatator sees to it that he has to collect money to secure money in this structure. This would be guided by nature's protection. I received a very beautiful Iceland card from five tourist organizations earlier. The P.R. is buried on the map, and it was the purpose of the organization to remind me of the importance of the public court for this discussion. I told them they wouldn't have to worry about it. I'd be very aware of the importance of the public court. But I'm also very aware of the importance of not harming Icelandic nature. That is why this law is not only in the current laws on nature protection but also in the law on Lake Earth. It says in 21 C.E. ... withauthority of the President's permission: In Regulation it may be decided to take guest fees within the Waterland Park for services granted and access to the region for cost- The U.S. National Park Act on the Þingles, our holy place, has the following license in 7th. ... withauthority of the President's permission: In Regulation, it may be decided to take interest in the park for services and stays until the costs of the service and the surveillance of residents are met. If we talk about the public rights and the claim that I'm making this suggestion that people's movements will be limited, then further says, in 7. ... withauthority of the President's permission: The National Park may also provide specific temporary traffic regulations, including those for the national park. Do not drive or stay in certain areas, nor do animal fishing and birds within it. This lawgiver has given the Constitutional Committee permission to limit local public rights by means of objective arguments. And that's what I'm saying here. We also have these sources under travel regulations, No. 73/2005. In the 28th C.E. The law says, with permission from the President: A minister is allowed to decide, under the direction of a travel agency, that a fair price should be paid for services provided at tourist locations, as the funds collected in this way are funds for the loss of fees, only used for protection, beauty, and beauty of the local facility, and to improve the facilities for visitors. This is where we come to the point. The aim of the natural pass is to raise funds for the protection, maintenance, and development of these polydiversity destinations. The aims are to protect nature, to spread stress by building up at other locations, and to ensure the safety of tourists. As a result, the current law has brought an end to its present condition. Privates can also apply for involvement in natural rights. The only condition that is set is that they do not collect a deposit in any other way. It's done to build an impulse in the system to get a private member to cooperate. Among other things, I have heard the criticism in this hall that I do not limit with this right private person to collect the deposit in his territory, and so all of this is impossible. I would like to show that in other forms of currency, including the one we now have in the law of hosting fees, this is also not taken into account, and that is exactly what it is, it is a legal basis for which two of the city's basic rights are weighed; the public rights that I have passed here, and protected by nature protection, though with the limitations I mentioned, and the rights of possession, which are covered by a constitution. It will not be settled in a bill to legalize natural passes. It must be settled elsewhere, in courts, because there are differences in legal views that I respect. Today, judicial decisions do not directly address that question. They are more concerned with domestic matters, whether a greater proportion of landowners can decide that currency should be collected in less unscrupulous parts. This was the case with Geysi, who was then a minority owner. To the north, in the country of Réjahli, a smaller part made a comment to the decision of the greater part, and there were private people everywhere at the table. These court cases are now being treated, but they do not come directly to this great prince's attention whether or not to do so. What a fine thing it would be if it were settled but not yet done! Meanwhile, looking for ways to get private people to join us, giving them the motivation to come with us on this mission because they see their best interests in it. Why do they see the benefit of doing so? Then I'll come to the arrangement. The management room will be overrun, and there will be an intervention by the already existing government fund of tourist attractions. You're not gonna make anything new about this. Since the cost of lodging was legalized, the tourist's funds have been performed well. There have been two criticisms, one of which is that there are not enough funds in the fund and that protests are required. Most of the time, the first factor is being tried to make more money. Parts of natural rights can apply in the tourist trade fund and be distributed if they meet current conditions without having to volunteer. In other words, parties to nature's rights do not have to make protests whether it is state or rural or private, who prefer to help us with the natural passes. Actually, we're setting aside about 10% of the resources we have for those people who want to be alone for some reason. They can apply if they pay a counterweight to not collect their own money. If men collect such things themselves, they don't have the right to engage. This is our efforts to get our private partners to cooperate with us. Monitoring will not be extensive, similar. It can be compared to status checks. We can take the chance of putting it on the screen without paying for a testimonial, but we are in danger that the parking guard will walk by and fine us a higher amount of money. That's the thought behind this. They're not forming patrols here. It is not the thought that these are all joint tasks that creep people up and fine people. That is why the price has been moderate, 1,500 cents. and this fits for three years. That's 500 bucks. To each Iceland of 18 years of age and older. We want to appeal to the fact that we need to put our hands together in order to protect nature, which is why it is set up like this. We're not interested in having patrols in every place requiring people on a natural pass, that's not the plan. There will be no due gate, there will be no roadblocks. True people will be exactly the same today, unlimited. Men can go down to the ground, men can go to the ground, they can drive through the National Park, on their way from Reykjavík to the Bishop's Pavilion if they choose without a natural pass. But if you get to the spot where a pass is required, you have to pay to stand on the platform that has been built and to stand by the rails that protect people from falls into the waterfall, for walking along the trails you've already set, that's what you're paying for, not for looking at the falls. It's important to keep that in mind. We do not pay for our culture and history when we pay $1,500. Into the National Museum, in fact, each time. There is certainly a display of our history and culture. We're not required for passports, it's not a discount for Icelanders. We don't pay for history and culture. We pay for the house, we pay for the museum. We're paying for the business, we're paying for someone's involvement in these infrastructure costs. It is the exact same thought that is behind the natural pass. Estimated revenues of the natural pass, except for about 4.56.5 billion.2 billion. in the first three years, compared with the predictions of a number of tourists. One goal, as I suggested, was that my income came from a foreign tourist. In this way, according to the estimate of a number of tourists, 85 to 101 percent of these revenues come from the foreign tourist. That's because me and the Icelanders buy the pass every three years, 18 years and older, and the cities of 500 bucks. This year, but more of the tourists I remind you of were a million last year, come here once, even though there are exceptions. If we were to return at 70%, 700 thousand tourists would buy natural passes every year, a gross estimate. In this way we get out that the foreign tourist I remind you is also the reason we have to spit our hands on these materials. Studies indicate that the tourist's country is ready to pay much more. But we had that in mind, especially with Icelanders, and also because we see that this will do well for the anticipated need for building up, to have a moderate fee, and to do so in this way. In addition, we take 7.5% aside on a variety of issues related to the safety of tourists. Half of it goes to the rescue teams that have, as we know, been at considerable expense for the increase in tourists. I'm sure attendance will be a lot of discussion here. You want a simple, cuddly little price that no one can feel. I've heard that from all over the discussion. We've already examined it, and we've already considered the pros and cons. If we were to charge our arrival, half of our income would be from Iceland because of the composition of the international flight and the number of Icelanders travel on the international level. It would be an extra taxation on the Icelanders, but with the natural pass, we'll be able to get 85 to 90% of the money from the foreign tourist. There is an important argument in this matter. Just in the end. There are many other ways, and I look forward to this discussion today. I'd like to encourage the United States and repeat what I said earlier about the experiences I've had in my conversation with nearly a thousand people at meetings around the country. They have been found to be very objective and meaningful. We've considered the pros and cons and debates, but I find great will in people, and it's a requirement that we, the Senate, come together and finish this matter in this spring council. I encourage a body of Congress to study the matter and bring about some serious changes. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I am convinced that we will reach a conclusion if we make sure that we are guided by what unites us in this discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u23	A respectable president. Why on earth does the Independence Party want to complicate the tax system? How the hell the hell is going to do that? Minister to monitor our journeys through Iceland's nature? And why on earth are you not listening to suggestions in favor of the tourist service that simply continue to use the host tax? By using the host tax, the tax system is not being entangled from the current tax system. The job's wishes are being carried out, and there's no need for extra surveillance. I must ask the highest. Minister: The idea of exporting parking prices outside the US mail number 101 is, of course, quite novel, but how many are the parking tickets in the nature of the country? They must run on dozens, don't they? And what's going to happen? Minister to do if the Icelander refuses to pay 15 grand. K. A fine for walking through the nature of the country? Should he be educated? Should he be more guilty, or incarcerated, or what advice will the minister take if people disagree with this payment? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u24	A respectable president. It is fundamental in the inquiry of a senator. On the other hand, he asks: " Why do the independent party want to complicate the tax system? And he says, however, that proposals govern the travel agency to change the cost of the stay. That's wrong. I remind you now where the balance is now. Now it's 100 bucks. Plus a merit tax on a bedside bond. The Commission's proposal is to pay a substantial amount of money to cover these revenues and to add it to each individual. There are a number of defects in that arrangement, and certainly not that there will be no supervision, apart from the fact that there are insufficient incomes to cover it. A senator knows. Today, the cost of the stay is 146 million. K. ... forthefinishedfinance of tourist status. It will not be able to obtain the money we need in this way without polishing the system, raising the cost, and doing so in a way that can have a negative impact on demand. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u25	A respectable president. There are about twenty more people in the city of Reykjavík. How many nature guards are going to the highest. Minister to hire to fine the people of the country for viewing the nature of the country? You must ask that question in the event of a tax called the host tax, and the profession itself points out. It is an already controlled tax and is obviously the simplest way to earn the money that needs to be funded here. V.E.G. The minister referred to this as not a special bill but, in some way, the bill of the entire government, which was not at the highest level. Minister to divorce. Can the Minister's words be understood, then, so that it is the common decision of all the Ministers in the Iceland government to offer these suggestions, since they obviously have little support in at least this stage of the government?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u26	A respectable president. I reiterate what I have heard in my conversation with people and people have been following in the media, and I deny that within the organization of tourism there is not a harmony in the decision of the board. Among other things, 17 people in travel services have written letters to the management board and have demanded that these plans be canceled and due to some way of accepting their dues. This has not been answered on the part of the government. About a question why. A senator to see if this is the bill of the government -- Yes, this is a government bill approved by the government. I went over it, and I'm not afraid of it at all. There are differing opinions on this subject. My goal is to listen to such opinions and to reach conclusions in this enormous interest. I sure hope so. A senator and his party come along with us on this mission because it was not least a word to form members of Congress as fast as possible. þm. Katrín Julius, the daughter of Julia, who encouraged us to take a serious discussion about the matter, that I made this case my case in this way at the council. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u27	A respectable president. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister in particular to section four. the bill that it addressed only in its case and shows that all areas of public property are automatically part of the natural environment, but the areas of private interest can apply for the part of nature. This is listed in Article 4. If you are a man who owns an area or tourist attractions to natural rights, you are forbidden to take another account from those in your area but a natural pass. However, there is nothing in the bill that forbids those who own a territory to go another way, i.e. not to be part of the natural world but to continue in their currency. And, of course, we've seen that development in the country as far as men have been collecting their own fees. V.E.G. A minister said that such a payment was not forbidden. But it's got the highest. Ministers believe that private people are involved in these natural passes, is there any incentive for them to do so? Is it not just the same to continue collecting your own fee, as there is nothing against it here?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u28	A respectable president. I reviewed in my speech that the bill is not limited to the right private person to collect in another way, but it's the motivation we're trying to build into the bill. Yes, I'm optimistic that we will succeed in getting a private person with us, I shall not state whether it will all be, but I am optimistic that we will be able to get one of them to cooperate with us. That's the goal. Regarding whether this is permitted or not, there are certainly conflicting views. We had it checked in my Ministry and the Ministry of Economics, and we got a legal opinion that convinced the owners that it was permitted. The EEA has given its opinion, contrary to that. That's why I keep repeating that this is an independent solution that we hope will be able to bring to the conclusion at some future time. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u29	A respectable president. I think it's very important that we discuss such a big matter as re-employing a new currency system at a tourist resort. In that case, I'd like to mention another, that's the question about the definition of tourist locations. V.E.G. A minister testified to nature protection laws and that there is a legal authority to be paid for, but that authority applies to what we call environmental protection areas, which are very clearly defined and defined by law and regulations. There's a lot of activity behind the fact that territory gets that position. The definition behind the term tourist location is much more open. So in itself, you wonder if there are not as many areas that you can measure up to that definition. So I believe the warrant is the highest. A minister may not be considered comparable to nature protection. But in terms of getting private clients involved in this, I think, of course, it's a lot of thought if this arrangement is on top and the General agrees to bring in the natural rights that there will still be allowed to take charge of all the land on the part of private hands, and thus there will be, in fact, no agreed legal system. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I think there must be some time before we create a solution to this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u30	A respectable president. Let us not forget that by the gathering of countries and rural areas, we reach over a vast majority of the total area and the places defined as multi-packed tourist attractions or tourist attractions. Because of what? A senator asks about the definition, but I didn't have time in my history to refer to another bill on the program today as the highest. Environment Minister provides, which is a bill for the legislation on the National Building Programme for tourism to protect natural and cultural memory. They were together with this bill on natural passes, and they're called brilliant. For example, it is in 2 grit. A further definition of tourist locations, so that the council has the means to establish a twelve-year policy-making strategy and a three-year strategy and to determine which places to travel and which places we should just leave behind and not plan to build up on. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I think it's important for senators to study this bill because it addresss many of the questions I know men have. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u31	A respectable president. I can't say I've been feeling much calm when I was the highest. The minister compared patrols on these topics to parking prices. Clearly, the highest. Minister has escaped from that trade better than I have. I'd like to ask a minister: It is obvious to me that in the event of flight, the simplest approach on this project is, and along the way, to the goal we all agree on. V.E.G. A minister always notes that there must be a special charge on domestic flights. Today, at least eight or nine separate charges on the part of the government are put on the domestic flight. Has the highest. A minister would not consider whether it was possible, if, at the end of an internal landing, to reduce some of the costs so that the population could have a very similar status on this, but at the same time, men would be charged with a very high national fee by the arrival of foreign tourists.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u32	A respectable president. Yeah, I'll tell you what. A senator says that I have had the best contact with the parking lot over the years, and I have nothing to complain about. For the coming charges, there are several defects that resulted in this failure. The same is true of the Evening Meal. We see the protests in the tourism Association and the conflicts we are now paying for one of the tourism agencies. A large, diverse, varied branch of travel is one of the calls for the inconveniences, as it were. I think it's a defect. The other thing about the domestic flight, that's how it works. paritaprevir Valgerður's Gunnarsdóttir's choice will lead the government committee, who will seek a way to lower the official curse on an internal flight that grew dramatically during the last term, as the senator is aware. This committee has not returned results, but it may be because taxes there are not just random taxes on something; it is a specific charge for an assignment. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] If we're to lift it, we'll need to find a mission somewhere else by... [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u33	A respectable president. I think there's a reason. Ministers to ensure that these charges cannot be paid on the domestic flight. There are eight or nine different fees, which I think must be possible from the government and the General to find an extension so that they could turn in their return fees so that the majority of the revenues they would come in from foreign tourists. I don't quite understand the end of the whole thing. A minister seems to have a problem with going a different way than the one she repeatedly says is not her idea in the discussions on this subject. Why not take a closer look at nonrequisitions that collect 100% and even make more money because the costs of the system are not comparable to those of the highest level. Minister's suggesting? Why go a more complicated route than is necessary?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u34	A respectable president. I refer to my first comment about this as the time is short here. The tents placed on the domestic flight now, and no one would favor lowering or dropping any other than the one listed here, that's carbon, that's an arms search fee, that's a gas charge, that's a airport structure, and whatever names say, they're protected in certain things. If so, we are making a decision to take money away from other places. It's a decision, indeed, but it's not just that this is going to take on the international flight, but there are Icelanders who fly the internationally, and we're doing this by thinking: Are people against paying, or don't people just want to know what they're paying for? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Then I'll say, "I'd much rather know what I'm paying for and pay less money." [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u35	A respectable president. Because it's now an answer, I'm not sure I have a question to the highest level. Minister. However, I would like to make serious disagreements in response to the highest degree. A minister says that those who enjoy must be paid, so I use her own words. Icelanders are taxpayers to groups and cities. They have their land, and they want to have free passage through the land. They are to be paid to earn, and it is the tourism companies that make up and prepare for the use of tourist facilities, just as the production of fish stocks and fishing the resources. It's exactly the same thing. Travellership is ready to pay, she has submitted it herself so that the income will be taken through the host tax. She's ready to pay. She understands the prince's finger, but she does. Minister doesn't understand the prince's finger, seems to be.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u36	A respectable president. I have to say, this isn't the first time we ever had. A senator disagrees. I'm very into having a prince's hand that those who enjoy it. I refer here to an article written in the November 30, 2010, issue of The Report by Sgiís Svavarsdóttir, then Environment Minister. She says, with President's permission: Since natural protection is largely financed by tax money, natural nature is one of our most precious possessions as a nation. It is normal, however, that the cost of living conditions and reforms in multiracial resorts is somehow carried by tourists. This is in harmony with the so - called use order, one of the cornerstones of the environmental rights, which is in accordance with common fairness. Travelers usually show moderate remuneration if they see that the money is truly spent in a good position and ambitious protection of nature. This is part of my point of view.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u37	A respectable president. I'm not what? paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir, I'm Ólína the Þorvarðardóttir and I'm here an independent senator. Had there been any forwardation, however, to start a resource fund and to coordinate the use of all resources in the country, to earn them money through the natural resource costs, both travel services, fishing roads, energy efficiency, and so forth, we may not be present in this embarrassing discussion of milking people, but not the income sources that the professional roads provide and can afford to communicate. I believe and find alone that those who really use natural resources are the same as the current force of protecting them and securing their sustainability. It is especially a community responsibility that such newborns bear.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u38	A respectable president. I'm well aware of what's happening. paritaprevir Þorvarðardóttir Þordóturdóttir is not what? paritaprevir SvandísSvavarsdóttir, cos I wasn't making them shoes. I was just referring to this article as a ideologies that those who enjoy nature enjoy these infrastructures that are built up at tourist locations, are involved in this structure, and that this is consistent with one of the fundamental aspects of environmental rights. If we'd had the vision to start a resource fund we wouldn't be standing here, we would say so. Senator. You see, that's exactly the point. Actually, I don't remember the discussions about creating some resource fund, I don't remember what it was. During the last term, a senator suggested a resource fund to take this matter on. [[Up front.]] I don't remember. The senator will correct me if I've missed it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u39	...more and more listen.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u40	It's still the point, if any had had that vision for five, ten, fifteen, twenty years to ensure the funding of these things, we wouldn't be here. [[The president calls.]] That's it, that's the situation we're in, and that's the situation I'm going to use for getting fixed. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u41	V.E.G. President. Here we are talking about a bill for a law on natural passes at the highest level. Minister of Industrial Affairs, secretary of travel, is moving here and bringing us into the council. In a way, it seems who's involved. This has been shown in short answers and in various conclusions from tourism to this bill at the highest level. Ministers and the way she chooses to go, she got a complete drop score as soon as the idea came up with some loss. I don't think it's unusual, and I don't recall a respectable President, in my 1999 Senate mansion, that a minister has brought as much controversy as a bad bill, that I don't now speak about the way she chooses. The minister himself, and I find it remarkable, has said in the media that this is her way, this is what she proposes, but the General and the Council Committee can take it and turn it upside down and change the case. That's totally new. I say for my part as a person on the job board who gets this bill: Yes, let me do my part in doing this evil way, which is being offered more successful and changed, and I'd like to believe that every member of the Committee and then, in particular, representatives of the board will participate in the work because the way presented here is very strange. I think the Minister has hit the worst. And I don't really understand why. Why did a minister not take more into account members of a travel service who have concluded this and wanted to go another way? In other words, the Independence Party's tax reduction policy with the Apostle Party is very strange and has been showing us our last losses. Higher food tax, higher book tax, higher user fees in health care. Hunting costs have been dropped, and now the natural pass comes. If this is the priority that independence and candidates are going to have and are here to follow, then I think it's going to get a complete dropout in the first place. As mentioned in the bill and this has been discussed, it was in 2011, in the past government, as a special tax associated with tourism was adopted, i.e. The host tax, which was very discussed but eventually agreed to the low number there. I ask myself, " Why, on the other hand, did not accept the law and idea, chose from the underprivileged ones who were and applied more with regard to experience, raised the price, and obtained this amount in this regard? ' I think it would have been the best and easiest way to go. The system is now in place for bedkeepers, and it's easy to take this little tax, these 100 bucks. which barely collects, costs are so great, but there's another arm, raises it, and collects the same amount as there to do. A respectable president. I told you before, I thought it was strange that this bill was from the Minister's hand for all changes at the General and the Committee. That's what we're gonna do. This bill has been given a terrible response. As an example, the House of Congress, which has been and is in public service, has shown that people have to pay for going there. Those who can't pay can expect to have some tax manager, some natural passer, and if they're not paid yet, they'll be sent out of the National Park and charged 15 of you. K. A fine. Either they don't think it's appropriate that we Icelanders have to pay for going to Theingfield or we'll say that a foreigner who comes to America doesn't have a natural pass and gets a ticket like this. I understand this bill was highly promoted by the Special Agents of the Agency, but it's presented. As far as I'm concerned, the Independence Party has great warnings and talks. That's what I'm saying as a rational support and I'm asking the highest. Minister: Why on earth did she choose a path to fail? We're discussing how we raise that price permanently to raise funds to protect and build and repair vulnerable tourist areas because of the large number that will return to the country and will only increase in the next few years. For one thing, this is followed by the great effort of the last government in a presentation of the country, the Inspired by Iceland, which was extremely successful, that we see this great increase ending is so -- I put a special emphasis on it, and men should pay more attention - that tourism gained in the latter part of 2013 more money than sea soil and aluminium. It was the first time in the history of the country that this happened. I don't remember whether it was the third quarter or the fourth, it doesn't matter. The minister said earlier that she had met about a thousand people to discuss these matters, and then she must have received it directly into the vein of what traveling officials have been saying lately. She said that she was optimistic about reaching a conclusion. The main task of the Parliament must be removed from this evil route and must find a better way and an opportunity. The bill discussed four factors that were considered, advantages, and shortcomings. I think it's quite remarkable that there's some traceable benefits and defects of coming or leaving fees, of the host tax, of every man collecting for himself, and of the New Zealand way. There is no consideration of the benefits and defects of the way the minister goes, the natural pass. I can only review the factors mentioned here, despite my criticism as they go to the highest level. A minister and work that has also taken far too long, since the spring days of 2013, when she sat on her present chair. Now, at the end of January 2015, we are discussing the bill. I hope we finish it before spring. Come on, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's There are certain shortcomings in that way. We have to charge everyone who comes to the country, including domestic flights that are already expensive. It's a failure, but it's not the only failure. I think I'm right in mind that EasyJets officers said that Keflavourn Airport is the second or third most expensive airport the airline's ever hit. Lately, we've heard that two airlines have stopped flying to us. That may be because of high landing charges. Of course, we know that the low-cost airlines are seeking to get to the cheapest ground, so I've never understood why we don't use more landings and services to the low-cost airlines in Akureyri and Egressian areas, for example, another arm. In short, at my first speech, I address this as an advantage and assume that this is a drawback on coming and leaving expenses. Then the host tax is the next way mentioned, and the pros and cons are discussed. This shows that the cost of the stay is according to a minimum of 100 dollars. 265 million a year, including 146 million dollars for tourism. Of course it's too low. That is why it can be calculated according to a financial statement that if we raise this price, for example, to 500 bucks. We receive about 1,300 million a year, which is similar to the number of the natural rights to be given in 2016, i.e. 1,238 million. K.; if we go to 400K. it will be 1,060 million. K. I'll stick around and read about bait at the host's fee. Why, then, do we not try to correct and correct them according to the experience and to take this approach? Third, landowners collect separately. That's the deadliest way of my life. In such a small country where there is a short gap between natural paradises, there's no way that people have their credit card upstairs, where landowners, or others, will pay a special price. It's not a good look for land and nation. It's hopeless, in my opinion. That's why I'm asking about what's at 4 mg. 4. ... withauthority of the President's permission: A list of the tourist attractions in Iceland that are part of the natural rights should be saved at any given time. What about those who don't want to go on the list? Can they just have their credit machine and charge in? Consider, then, the case of Geysi. Is not there yet another negative outcome? I'm not going to express myself and spend my time talking about this New Zealand route. I've been sitting around most of the time, as you can hear, for the stay, for the further application of it, and so I've arranged it so that we create the money we consider reasonable and need to get into the effort we need at tourist attractions because we've been neglecting it for so long. On the page of a tourist, there is a headline for a third - city bedmark. There are many cities that Icelandic societies fly to. It says, by permission of the President: In the 20 cities that are flown directly from Cheflavík, and in particular, the hotel guests are taxed. The honor tax is also listed, but when compared, the tax may be at room temperature by 7% here in the country...•is now higher. Consider some examples. Amsterdam: 5.5% on top of total prices. Barcelona: 1153/4380 k. Berlin: 5% on top of total prices. Hamburg: 80◯600 k. It may be noted here that the tax varies according to the type of accommodations, according to the quality of the accommodations. Maybe there's nothing unnatural about it. We can take Milan: 300 to 750. New York City: 4303/430,930K. Paris: 30◯250K. Rome: 450,430,0K. So listed here are several cities like Seattle, Toronto, and Vienna who only place a percentage on the price you pay for staying in that hotel. A respectable president. In the closing minute of my 1st year. On this bill, I'd like to say that considering this review, I feel that the Minister of Nature and the Government are the worst way to go. I think the path we're supposed to go and sit down to do something better if there's a problem. The fee is to be raised to obtain the amount we think we will need in the effort that needs to be done as soon as possible and that will give much more in over 900 million. K. who have been involved in this since the execution of the law in the past government. That's a good price and a lot of money, but it just doesn't work because, as I say, we've neglected it for so long. I look forward to dealing with this bill on the job committee and repeating what I said earlier: I find it very strange that there is a bill presented by the Minister, which the Minister grants half permission to become completely changed in the case of the General Assembly. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u42	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller gives a note here for the United States for a bedside fee. He spoke in his talk to correct the maladies that were on the bedside fee so that it could be possible to obtain the 4.5-6.5 billion that the natural pass is intended for in the next three years. Hv. A senator also listed large cities that set out for overnight maintenance fees. Here's 100 bucks for the bed. It has been observed in the discussion of the cost of travel that those with less room and lodging around the country feel that the cost of lodging is low, but the larger hotels, which may have more resources and other forms of management, may have a different view. I'd like to ask you what. A senator. I'll say what. A senator has given the tone on behalf of the United States for the host's fee and asks: "Is the idea of adding a lot of money according to the size of the country, depending on what sort of lodging is involved, according to the person who buys the lodgings? That's what I'm talking about. A senator to beat the rhythm of the United States to see that this price will be paid, of course, foreign tourists and internationally, and will likely be in it, as it were. A senator said, to correct the problem, perhaps to take in more expenses and in other ways from the cruise ships that sail here and sit at sea? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u43	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the questions it presents. She says I gave the tone of the United States for the host's fee, and maybe you could say that. Of course, I always have that warning for 1st. The point is that there will be reviews of this and will be won by committees. At first sight, as I think I've done well, it seems to me that there's a better application of a bedsider's fee, and that, if there are any, it needs to be tailored. I read in the bill that there's a problem with the host tax and we'll cut them off. I quoted the data I have from a page called a tourist, which I don't know who's outside. Among other things, it says by permission of the president: ▪ The tax is placed on every guest, and the sum depends on the quality of the hotel. Thus, a tourist at a four - star hotel in Rome pays extra $900 every night. That's the way it's done. I don't think we have a problem with doing that sort of thing. It's easy to make a few groups, sort a place to stay for the quality, by the stars, so it can be installed. A good hotel in the capital area, the best hotels, is paid more than that. Those who buy a place to stay there may have more space between their hands, so they can be laid on. A respectable president. As I mentioned, this is what they do in large Europe. We're sometimes afraid of how ESAs say we can do things. I can't imagine being doing this in these cities without seeing that the ESA or the European Union is equal to the way it's approved by them. Therefore, I still believe that of the ways that are set up here, there is further application to the host price best.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u44	A respectable president. It's pretty clear that the tone is given by the United States on a bedside fee, so that's it. This is probably the way it should go. A senator will fight for the job committee, and it will show how this treatment will go with them all. I'd like to ask you what. A senator. Based on the opposition that the debate over a rise in bedspan has been given, because it seems that whoever seems to be able to raise the money to protect Iceland from rivers, each member of the Parliament considers the lack of the host's fee, if he thinks he will be some, e.g. From tax returns? Who thinks so? A senator says that the effect will be or how it will be returned here in the capital area to those who rent out their homes and apartments? If it were to be held for a stay, it would be possible to approach it in such a way as to do so. A senator talks about? Now I don't have the guts to tell you how many dollars in the state box is due today. The largest part will probably come from the capital area. In some places, there is little or nothing. Is it possible that this is one of those little ones? A senator believes that by this means, there may be some personal problems that may be difficult to deal with, as well as tax returns?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u45	V.E.G. President. Hv. A senator makes a conversation with me in return from taxes as to how I should stay. That may well be the case, and we have talked about the abundance of black jobs. Travellers who have discussed with us on the job board on a range of subjects that have been discussed have sometimes thrown up on a tent page that I can't remember what is called, which shows that you can buy lodging in Reykjavík or six hundred homes or in some house that no one knows about. Happily, the government tax manager has been in a special effort to make this happen and to make significant progress. In other words, if this were the only problem with my bedside fee, I wouldn't be afraid of it. This, of course, is the effort we should take to prevent such activity, not only because it does not provide expenses for state funds as it should, but also because of the security issues of those who are on the market and do it in an honest and normal way. What if there's a disaster, let's say if there's a burning in a house that's not approved but is sold out and people are going to die in the fire? It wouldn't do much good, and it wouldn't be a good description in Iceland. If this is the only problem, it's very easy to go to it with the governor. It's about what it's like. A senator will discuss whether the capital area is most important and less in the country, I don't know anything about it. This may be the subject of a query, to get the update, from where this comes from. But it doesn't matter what else, if you stamp into the box a wine deal instead of selling food, it's the tax government going through it. It's a lot of practice, and we talked about it in terms of the change in merit taxation that this can be done much faster and more. I'm happy to see what the Board of Travellers has brought to the attention, and the government tax manager is responding. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u46	President. Thank you. Kristján Möller's senator for a meaningful speech earlier. We will now discuss the main employment and business secretary's bill on natural passes, which is actually monitoring the urban movement on Icelandic nature and the taxation of the Minister on transport and experience at Icelandic destinations of nature. Hv. paritaprevir Kristján Möller prefers the host's fee, which will be more successful in making money for tourism, and I agree with him on that. In the bill at the highest. When it comes to collecting the natural pass, a minister does not care much about the costs and costs. The Ministry's review of the bill shows that when it comes to monitoring the natural passes, who are using it, and how it is used, the Minister's bill assumes that one status in a travel agency. Criticized by the Ministry of Economics. Last year, however, there were a number of foreign tourists who came here for 1 million. In the bill, one person is expected to handle the surveillance there. What do you think? A senator working and preparing the bill when it comes to company and management?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u47	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for mentioning this point because in my 15 - minute speech, I could not get over the financial review on this point. Some comments can be made, including this: It says that the cost is 92.1 billion. K. We're putting this system on, of which 60 million are going. K. for introduction and marketing, and thereafter the cost of operating is expressed. The figure is 40 billion. K. and weighing one job at a travel agency. My answer to a question why. A senator on this point is that I also have a complete drop score. This country is not covered here, but there is no discussion of the cost. We can imagine if some cruise ships came to a port in Reykjavík and ten, twenty buses with the people east of Gold Falls. How should this be done? Should there be a guard in a cop outfit or something like that checking for any natural passes? It's just an ugly, respectable president. That's why I say the balance is the simplest way. The last government put it on, and the Council agreed, I don't remember whether it was cohesive or not, no doubt it didn't agree when I looked at a minister, they were now often out of agreement, but it's just an application we've done here. I explained how the arrangement was carried out in various European cities, which have a lodge fee and how it was carried out. The Gistint account is the simplest way and the cheapest. Travellers and traders pay all kinds of fees to the State for various services. It's just part of the agreement that needs to be put in place, that guests charge this fee that goes into a fund that has a good and noble goal that we should not forget to be the main thing here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u48	President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I agree with him that this case is badly made and, in fact, completely incomprehensible when it comes to the implementation of the bill, that we do not speak of the princely burden that is behind, which is natural to monitor citizens and tax their quests for Icelandic nature. Hv. A senator mentioned that the cost of a stay was the cheapest way. I agree with him because there is no detailed cost assessment of the environment and the management at all the standards of nature that will be - or not, we don't know how many status values are to be collected by nature passers. It would also be good to hear from what we hear. A senator's opinion on how he feels about the loss of a government fund, which will be by canceling the cost of his stay, that is about $2,250,300 million. K. As a state fund, advising itself with the bill of industrial and commercial ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u49	V.E.G. President. Because of the last word why. In answer to his opponent, it is reported in the opinion of the cost of making a profit from a host tax of $2,250,300 million. K. This year, as estimated in 2017, falls. I've thought about it sometimes, and maybe especially after that. A senator mentioned it here, whether or not the reason for the Supreme Court. The minister and the present government do not propose a bedside fee, and then particularly the highest. Minister because I think it's just her personal matter, it seems that no one is behind this case, is because the balance rate was set on in the last government. I've wondered if even the last government had things to do and done well, such as the tourist campaign I had in mind, or the host's fee. This has been implemented for a few years, and no doubt there are some obstacles to what needs to be tailored to when there is a better experience. We need to be in touch with those in this article who charge this fee for us and tell how to do it and how it will be done best. But part of the reason why I've been giving birth to a bedkeeper, rather than any other one now, is how cheap a way it is. Those who sell beds may say: The Kingdom is always laying on us some responsibilities in order to earn money for the money of the government. - Yeah, that's right, but it's good for them in the long run when we finish this case and tourists who buy a place to stay with them, and they'll be more comfortable places and better service.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u50	A respectable president. V.E.G. In his background, a minister began by discussing what we would agree about in this Assembly Hall. I can agree that we agree that money is needed to build up wood in sensitive areas, especially in tourist outbreaks. Of course, we also agree on the importance of tourism, which in recent years has played a priceless role in national preparation. With the growing number of tourists, deposit costs have increased steadily, but infrastructure development has not been achieved in the same way with the growing number of tourists. And all of us know that the land is at great risk. It's like the highest. In fact, a minister also said that we have not agreed on a route, and it does not have to go back far back to the discussion that we had here during the last term to raise the merit tax in tourism. In fact, this worth tax has now been increased by approval of changes in the value tax system by Christmas, but during the last term, it was proposed to increase the worth of a tax on travel, and it faced great opposition in existing government groups. At that time, heavy words were dropped and discussed an attack on the tourism service. The fact is, it's been very difficult to get along here. I would also like to remind you that the cost of stay was set at that time, in 2011, and let us not forget that the very idea that was then expressed was that there were two kinds of fees, i.e. 100K. night in hotels and 50 bucks. in less-inexpensive areas. As a result, they were converted into a total of 100 pieces of cohesion. A price. Here, people used to speculate that this price was too burdensome. Now it's suggested that it be canceled, and I'm putting a big question mark on it. I believe this system can be reassigned much better. This is the system that maintains the development of tourism throughout Europe. Hv. A senator who spoke before mentioned some examples, and if we go over it, it is very common to place a fee from 1 euro to only 75 cents, and up to 4 euros, all in case of lodging. Here's the price of 100 k, which, of course, does not bring enough money into the box, but I don't see any resistance, and I haven't heard enough evidence of making it available, so that the host's fees will vary from place to place, and will run to build up a tourist position. There is nothing in this arrangement that will prevent us from changing the structure of the European Commission budget, since the highest level of tourism. A minister also made it a subject in his speech that it was important not to demand objection. Surely we have heard that reasoning before, and then we will consider it. But why disintegrating this system rather than developing it, a system that is going on all over Europe? I also note that the bill's report discusses the practice of currency in many parts of the world when entering national parks and in protected areas. However, as we look at the data cited, to form a report that the company Alta was working for a travel agency called Funding Strategies Strategies and Strategies: overview of the methods of payment over different ways, it is stated that it is primarily west of the ocean, i.e. In the United States and Canada, where that passage has gone, and then on to areas farther away. But if we look at the area where we are, Europe, this is the way, the hosting fees, the long-lasting and most efficient way, so I say. And it does not generally charge into national parks or a non-violent territory. Since then, it has been said a lot about coming charges, and it is certainly true that I hear people's concern over land because their comets grow on the international flight, which, of course, is not just the travel of tourists, any lance they may be, but also of the Icelanders who have to travel from one place to another. There I don't think we should get caught in the worry that that's why we're out of the picture. Don't we just have to redesign the domestic flight again? All of us must be concerned about where it is headed, since passengers are less than a year from now, and road costs have gone up. There's a lot of talk wherever you go across the country, worry about growing on the inside. So, then, do we not have to wonder exactly what is the future of the domestic flight? I don't think that's why it's gonna stop us from paying our fees, but I think we need to take a special look at the state of the national flight. It's also known that my mind was polarized at quite a while and spent a lot of time across a so - called New Zealand route. It actually gets just one paragraph of the bill, that the basic rule is that all who gain financial benefit from being involved in tourism activities, i.e. travel providers, have to pay for a certain amount of remuneration. In fact, this process is carried out with the words that it would be quite more complicated in implementation here in the country, so I witness in the bill's report, since tourism management is quite complex in this country and in some cases it can be said the same about the holding of tourist attractions. Yes, it is a complex and combined article in travel. But I think this route is overdone in the report, and I think it's too easy and I expect it to be. The job committee, who will discuss the matter, needs to dig deeper into all these ways. But what I've said before, and this is where I've considered the sole way to go. It has been noted that not everyone pays for lodging, for example, the cruise ships have been used as an example. For example, Greenlandns can then be looked forward to paying a special price for the passengers who stop on cruise ships, for they go ashore and then go back, and so do other nations. So, first of all, I don't know that we're here to invent a new bike, which we really don't see exactly how it's going to be done. Here's what we got. Councilmen who have also discussed the issues of surveillance. V.E.G. Minister has said it will not be extensive, not expected to be largely monitored. Then we can also ask: Will the means to return what is expected of us? However, I'm not in favor of supervision in the spirit of a parking lot in Reykjavík. It would change the experience of tourists coming here from the country. Of course, there is a large argument that tourists in tourism have suggested that we are marketing specific nature, the unmoved vastness, the unmoved nature, and that image, of course, is lost as soon as we have got a lot of surveillance to charge in or see if people paid the natural pass. But while it is said in the beginning that the surveillance will not be a great deal, that it will be expected that people will just be paid, and they will only be done once in a while, then all I see is that we must wonder: What are we opening if we accept the bill here? Like what? Congress is aware, and I want to use the latter part of my speech to discuss it specifically, but I have not necessarily been most concerned about Iceland's marketing, although it is extremely important, but the fundamental factors behind this matter. There's two things I'd like to say specifically. On the one hand, it's the public court. V.E.G. According to a minister, it was accomplished by the existence of legal rights in the protection laws of 1999 and 2013. But as I pointed out in my short answer, I don't think this warrant can be considered comparable to the amount of pay offered here. Natural protection areas are very clear in the laws and regulations. There is a very large process behind the fact that territory receives such a position. It also clearly explains how to protect the money. This is much more comprehensive if we look at the definition and it is referred not only to the bill that is presented here but also to the next part of the bill on the agenda, i.e. the national programme and construction bill for tourists to protect nature and cultural memory, a bill at the highest level. Environment Minister. This is a very open definition. Tourists are places that attract tourists because of nature and history. Farmers can define such sites within their primary structure, based on their own estimates, their private bodies can, in fact, define places within their own areas based on their own estimates. I believe this term is much more comprehensive and vague than the environment of nature. There really is a definition problem in the bill. All of us know about the country that there are countless places we can call tourist attractions. So I don't think it's equal. Natural protection laws also require the public rights, and they have been part of Icelandic legislation since the book of John. These rules are not special. They have been reflected in the rights of Western countries since the definition of the public rights of the ancient Roman Empire, which spoke of the common quality that was the atmosphere, for example, the availability of sea life, and the free movement through land. This I have believed should, in fact, have been the custom of the Icelandic law, of the constitution, and of which I would have liked to see it, and of which many suggestions have been made in recent years, because our tradition is very rich in public law. And that's what they think. A minister wooded here, and she has received an urgent appeal from nature - protection organizations, a vital part of our legal tradition of making free journeys around the country. And we must ask ourselves, even though the price is low, 500 bucks. In a year: Is this not a matter of setting limits on freedom of movement in view of the fact that we need, although the inspection may not be much, to have paid 500 bucks? for traveling through the country, the tourist attractions that can be defined in such an enormously open way? And if we don't have the pass in our hands or if it's registered to our social security number, we got a fine, 15 of you. K. I'm fine by the bill. If this does not conflict with public rights, I think we need a much better definition. It's also interesting that in the bill article there is no section on the public rights for which I would have requested a legal assessment. The other big thing, the fundamental thing, I want to use my last minutes to cover, and that's, "What are we paying for? V.E.G. A minister says, "We're paying for the ministry. " I think we could quite settle in this hall to pay for a certain service, but it's not the same thing putting money on metering or paying for getting to go to the bathroom, as it is done in Europe, where it's charged to go to the bathroom. Sometimes you just get really happy because you get to pee in a clean toilet, which is a certain quality and service that you pay for. But we are not setting such a service here. It's not that we're talking about paying a parking lot at Gold Falls or that a bus stop is paying for a parking lot. They're talking about the entire population paying that price, wanting him to go through the country. Of course, we are not going to drive through the Field without having a chance to stop there. Or we're going to drive through the House and say, "No, we can't stop, we haven't paid yet. The same applies to the country where, in fact, countless tourism services or tourism sites can be defined according to the definitions laid down here. That definition is open, and the goal of the bill seems to be that everyone pays this price, nature pass fee for going through the country. And then we must have a moral question, because nature is in subjection to laws other than culture. Because of the highest culture, human culture is what has been created. A minister named the National Museum, which is charged with. Nature has other laws, it's not a human form. It has a right to herself, independent of human beings. We have this bill to bring up certain laws of the market on natural quality, we recommend that you pay to experience. V.E.G. A minister is suggesting not only that we pay for service but that all citizens, even though they are not necessarily using the parking lot or the toilet or what it is, a certain amount of money to travel freely through Icelandic nature. That's where we're on a path that I think requires a much more basic discussion, i.e. whether we are willing to bring nature in this way under the market law. Here's a big moral opinion issue, and I think they'll need a lot of time for work and discussions at the council, because there's a fundamental difference between paying to enjoy, like the highest level. A minister said, or paying for the services given to the place. This is the fundamental thing that we must understand in all the debates about nature passes. We can agree that we lack money, that we need to engage in building projects, but it is important that we respect basics when we decide which way we're going to get their money, a respectable president. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u51	President. Hv. A senator here mentioned two basics, one on the other hand, the public rights and the other for what we were paying. I can agree with what. A senator knows that it's an idea to pay for parking a car in a parking lot and pay for a service when you go to the bathroom and other things. I wanted to mention the third principle that I feel is clearly expressed in the bill and is a fundamental difference between how we approach nature and what to pay, i.e. question: Who will pay? I wanted to ask you what. A senator whether she could share the thought with me that in this government, as it happens, the emphasis is always on individuals, people, citizens. However, those who use the resource, which in this case are tourism companies, do not have to pay. It's always the people who pay. It shows itself, as it turned out in the opposite direction. paritaprevir Ólína the Þorvarðardóttir daughter, both in our dealings with the fish in the ocean, and I think it's very strong in this bill, that you don't trust yourself to let the commercial cities that make money on the use of nature. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask the senator if she can share these thoughts with me.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u52	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this reflection. It may be possible to divide ways of exchange into three, i.e. that the tourists themselves pay for services, as I did in particular to the publicity of my talk, that the companies themselves, which profit from working in travel services, pay certain fees for; that's this New Zealand way, which I also made for the publicity of my speech, which I feel is all too quick for a report by the bill. I've got a lot of emphasis on what I'm doing. A professional committee went into that direction. It's about the companies running the tourism services paying a price, we can say, nature. The third way I feel is here - because it does not really limit how we define tourist areas, i.e. that although we realize that there are not very many at first, the definition is very open and we are now filing for access. It's not the same as paying for a service. I think - because of the highest. A minister admitted that she felt that it was important for us to have a discussion about these matters, that we tried to find ways to achieve this common goal - that we must wonder who we are going to pay. Are we going to let people pay for the service, for the access, or are we going to pay the companies ourselves? I feel like the way this is going to go, which is about paying for access, the least way. However, I agree that there is a need to raise money on these matters, and then the question is, Do we really want to do this by placing the cost on the companies? Perhaps he will contribute to some extent to the prices, to those who use the services of these companies, so it may indirectly affect the tourists themselves. But then we need to keep in mind, and maybe the big issue is that the currency is for the ministry rather than for the experience. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u53	Because of the last word why. The senator, that if this price was first taken from the tourism agencies for the use of natural resources, it might have gone into the prices and thus could lead to the traveller's pay. I'm not so sure there'd have to be so much, because no one's gonna tell me that a travel agency now selling trips in the Þingalundi won't take a price for going to the Field right now. I think there's some kind of price already involved, even though maybe it's not quite possible to say exactly how much it is. Now I understand that landowners can get involved in these natural passes, but I also understand that it is very uncertain how that would be. So does it -- I think that I'm correct in understanding - that landowners can, if they don't want to be part of the natural pass, install their own credit points. I understand that's the way it is. Has a what? A senator of any ideas as to how likely landowners will fit these? Or do we expect jars to spring up wide across the country?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u54	A respectable president. This was not allowed for me to swerve extensively in my speech, but it appeared earlier, in a verbal exchange at the highest level. Minister, there's a possibility that private people can choose to join the natural pass. There is, however, nothing that prevents you, if you own a country, that you don't make a person in the natural pass, but take in your own territory. In itself, I can't tell if the bill is going to work encouragingly, or the law, on a private person to enter this system. Of course, one must wonder whether it will be an incentive or if it will simply be an example and incentive to earn one's own money. It would be perhaps a shorter way for private workers to build up money in their own country to get their own currency and not have to go through the public process for building money. There's nothing here that can handle it and you can imagine it, you're the private owners of the world, that nothing would stop them from going that way. There's nothing in the bill that keeps them from going there. There's another thing I would have wanted to see about this case, i.e. to set up any aspect or rules about it if this is the way you plan to do it. That's one of the things I've always felt that everyone agrees, that people don't like the wild West Reunion that's come up here into the extreme of people who are charged with going into places. Many of those who have experienced this seem to have no feeling that the funds they deposit in such currency are designed to build up. It's nowhere to be seen. Let us see that there is also the difference between paying for the ministry or paying for the access, or before the experience. There is at least nothing in this bill that prevents the private carer from continuing remuneration in their areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u55	A respectable president. I'd like to do only a few moments before going to the main subject of this matter to talk about its political situation here at this time. Now that we're well into this council winter, we're close to the end of the term when the bill has finally arrived for a discussion at the council. The situation is that it seems that no one really wants to know about having the bill under discussion, i.e. There is great opposition to this in many parts of the council, not only in the state of the government but also in the Senate of the candidates, and there is great opposition to it in the community and among the stakeholders in the matter is not a very good factor. That's what we've seen in the coverage lately and today. It's a little carelessly taken along with this party from the highest level. Governments. You see, when we were discussing this subject on Christmas Eve, i.e. on the budget, it came during the day that contributions to tourism are being cut down significantly. Seeing is not like what was before, and it is far from meeting the needs of tourist attractions in many parts of the country because of widespread pressure on tourists and cover - ups. At the same time as there is political uncertainty, the necessary funds for maintenance, building up, and maintaining travel have not been established. That's a worry. It will be clear how this matter is angry at the council, but as I have said, there are doubts about it within the second board of directors. V.E.G. Environment Minister has said that the council will not remain unchanged. V.E.G. Industrial and commercial ministers are striving to say that this is not her idea, so it's, in my opinion, a bit carelessly treated a very important seminary. There have been reports that there are many ways to meet the target of the law. But, as far as I'm concerned, after being over both the highest bill. Ministers and the ways mentioned in the discussion are the worst possible outcome for this discussion. I just want to mention things that I would have felt would have been more likely to develop more solidarities, such as a change in the cost of stay. Also a so-called New Zealand way, which has been discussed, which includes a special use agreement or, in fact, a resource license, or something like this, to companies that then collect it from their clients to companies that use the natural world of Iceland in one way or another. This is a way in which there would be no need to impose any overall pressure on tourists, Icelanders, or tourists who travel on their own roads; rather, it is mainly a price paid by an enterprise that exploits tourist attractions in one way or another, and it is easy for them to include them in their prices. A mixture of such a procedure and then a host's fee could provide the State with sufficient income to meet the needs of the building project and all agree on it. I'd also like to talk about the consequences of nature passes on the experience of tourists. I think it's an important part of what we're discussing here how it affects the experience of tourists in paying such a special price and then under some particular supervision at tourist places. What people are looking for when they get to Iceland is just a little wildly uncool, i.e. People come into a natural area that hasn't really been meant enough, it's such a general property, something that's for everyone to experience. It's been my feeling of my conversations with tourists coming to Iceland that this is exactly the most important option, people who come here and visit places where there are few people. I think that this must also be kept in mind in the structure necessary, to try to keep it, by the permission of a president, as minimaristic as possible, so they are not being built up as little as possible. In my opinion, the so - called return charge can be implemented in a way that would reach all goals as high as possible. The Minister of the Interior feels that he is getting along with the bill that is being discussed here. In recent years, 17 companies have reported this on the core and have challenged the management of the tourism Association that it will provide the means for making special visits in Iceland for the maintenance and development of tourist facilities, and I believe that this is a very acceptable way. A figure has been written by those who know about these charges, and recently a very informative article was presented for the evidence of taking the lead in using the fittings. There are many arguments that recommend it, but among the highest. The Minister of Industrial Affairs has said that the use of return charges is about to be paid in the country. Of course, you're right. Within the EU, international flights are thought to be part of a European economy and no rules can be applied specifically to one factor there, i.e. Just on the international flight, not the domestic flight. However, there are eight or nine different fees placed on the international flight, which I think should be mere exports, so that they would update some of the charges against making special returns that would also be in domestic flights. So the public in Iceland should not become anything when it comes to doing so. A tribute of 300 to 1,400 bucks. Neither should international flights make landings at Keflavík so expensive that airlines decide to disappear, nor should I feel that there is something that should be tried. Remuneration is the only collected method for which it is certain that it will be reached by all the guests who arrive in the country without exception, both flight and shipping personnel. They do not have to be as high as nature pass because the collected method is 100% efficient, i.e. It gets to everybody. The cost of induction and the collection of comers is also minimal, and no special surveillance group is required to follow it specifically. It is very unlikely that coming charges will cause a recession in demand for Iceland, especially where their collections will be relatively peaceful. Few people are aware of it in themselves, and they too can be low. They pay with the cargo to the country, and that's all that's left to them. They have no influence on the experiences of tourists from the country; they do not need a surveillance industry or a nature guard; they do not need a new letterbat. The recovery route is already open and needs a little preparation. This is the unscrupulous way of doing most of the work. Arrangements do not come up with the wheel. Rather, they are choosing a course that other nations have used and used successfully. This is a known and established method and no special promotion, marketing and sales service is required, as nature passes should be required. I feel that the most complicated and the most complex route is being taken by the bill under consideration. I examined this morning a report published in 2013 from a travel agency where there are several advantages in these activities, even when it comes to hosting costs, and reviewing the implementation of many different countries in these areas. Almost without exception, this is being done with a so - called bedside fee. If the collected method is already in place, enough to collect in a third hundred million dollars. K. with the host's fee, it must only be a process of making a change so that more money comes in there. Premium expenditures can also be used, some form of a route that can be chosen through the New Zealand route. All of this, in my opinion, is simpler than the way it is presented here, which is part of this bill. Since then, more part of the council may have, at least not in the same form, relative to what has been done on the part of one of the administration parties. This case is actually in big trouble and difficult to see how it will be solved unless you simply decide on a professional committee that I understand to be discussed with you to make significant changes in it. I think it's inevitable. I think the party's position is so that it would be completely irresponsible for everyone here at the council not to try in some way to get these things out for the summer. But it's just a few weeks before our main tourist season begins. This whole thing's gonna get bigger in about seven or eight weeks, and then the tranqs go up, we know what it's like. The same song may begin at the main tourist attractions to have the right to build up, to be able to collect, and so on. I'm afraid that by keeping a picture on the bill for as long as we've been in the discussion, we're not gonna make it. But, of course, it needs to be, like the highest. Environment Minister has said, to make major changes in the case so that it will pass through the council. As I have considered this better and better, I really believe that there is good reason to retract the matter and to carry it back in another way. It may have to be settled here during the conference on a transpiritian committee, where they would simply agree to update some kind of return rate or mixture of existing means, innsight fees and return fees, and to benefit from the summer tourism industry in Iceland because many places are facing a very serious situation. It is also very serious if someone tries to cope with abuses because things are not thought over the long term. Sadly, I feel that we are still trapped in the same tire marks in this case, which has not washed, or covered, the entire ideal period. Now we're starting to arrive in half the terms of the season without any success in solving this important issue.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u56	President. I'm pretty much at odds with what. A senator; I heard him say that he might think this was the wrong way to go in these matters, and if that's his opinion, we agree. Hv. In the first part of his speech, a senator mentioned the careless lack of funds that were laid down in the travel fund. Then, with what it is, it is the first time that the election period is half over because the minister has long thought and reached a great outcome for us today. But whatever the Senator thinks, I think it's 146 million. K. which now are in the budget: Will it be enough this year, or can we expect the government to simply decide, as was done last year, to spend a lot more money and put it in financial contributions? And even if it would be approved here, I don't think there's much money to flow in this year, do I believe, into the project fund, and it's not allowed to put them there, or what?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u57	A respectable president. Of course, in the last budget, the government attended over 300 million dollars. K., if I recall correctly, at the budget to correct what was lacking in the tourist trade because the government had anticipated that by the fall of 2013, it would be safe to cut down the pressure because the natural pass was coming. The budget was also cut down now because the government seems to be in a position of natural rights. This shows that the job management and the conversation within the government group are nothing, the job management is involved. That's a statement of the highest order. Industrial Minister here that this is a government case approved by the government. That must include sitting down and arguing between members of the council or the subsequent procedures of the case, but none of these events have been carried out. In fact, that's the way it is that one out. A member of the Parliament, Karl Garðarsson, member of the House of powder, informs the people that his experience in this matter is as if he were put against a wall. This is a new summer, and it hasn't changed since the last protest, and he's not going to accept it. Of course it is that the political task force on the part of the government, and then industrial and commercial ministers including, there is no one. There is no conversation between the officers who are going to operate on this matter and prepare for its implementation here through the council. It is in a more controlled business to finish this case, which he has not been able to do. It's almost two years. It is not as if humans began talking about natural passes or some kind of price at the beginning of this terms; like the highest. A minister has identified it as a long story, yet nothing has happened. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u58	President. Hv. A senator mentioned 17 companies in travel services who have made special comments on this fee and on the natural rights they call them. However, it seems to me that there is one company, and there is naturally quite an enormous enterprise in this country, in a travel service that has measured this recovery and that is the ideal company of Ingelanda. To me, the decision to go this way is the highest. Ministers to pay more attention to large companies than to many small companies. It's not surprising to me because I think it's the spirit of this government to be with the big ones. For example, we've seen it, so we'll take back the fishing charges and we'll emphasize the government's tax on the book and music version, and so on. I'd like to ask the senator, " Am I completely mistaken in feeling that I'm here a lot of emphasis on following the big but little of us to save ourselves? '
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u59	A respectable president. This is an excellent question, but there are no small companies that are putting up with the transport network to emphasize return charges. According to the reactor report, these are very extensive tourism companies, such as the Center Hotels, GoNorth, the Hotel Cabin, the Hotel Rock, the Hotel Ark, the Iceland Excursions, Kea-hotels, North Searling, and Viator. There are no small companies out there wishing that this case will all be taken up. That's right. That's what's been said in the Supreme case. Industrial Minister, that it has not been isolated within the transport organisation at the time of choice, but it has not been limited to the use of natural passes. There has been disagreements as to whether to highlight a host's fee or a return fee, which, in turn, would be different from the highest costs. A minister has stressed the importance. That seems to be the same conclusion as it was here with me. A senator seems to be the worst of what was ever chosen. As I said in the previous answer, this case was also discussed during the last term, so it is clear that the existing government was completely unprepared, had no ideas of how they were going to implement it when they came into power, began at zeros, had not yet been talked to among themselves, and had not yet reached a mutual conclusion as to how to hold this vital issue. That's why I mention it, and I say, of course, it's a sign of a very careless business and a poor job management.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u60	Madam President. I listened attentively to it. A speaker reviewed different ways of earning money or earning money in these materials, coming fees, stay expenses, or other such institutions, also called the New Zealand way. As I approach this point, there seems to be one fundamental difference between basically all the currency ideas I've come across through political work or as a tourist and this Icelandic erection. The fundamental difference is that it is collected to individuals, the opposition is just the individual tourist. In almost any other instance I know, there is some kind of collection that is simple in formats and goes through the operators, goes through the labourers, or is paid directly by law, as in the New Zealand case where they are managers, companies and organizations that use the natural resources that are registered and pay the fees. The same is true of return fees, which are paid through fares or inns, which are charged at a hotel, by a lawgiver employed in the industry. I want to ask you why. A member of the United States, for example, has occasionally fallen into the mountains with his backpacks inside and outside the country: does he know some example of how men have made total interest in the job industry by making the currency an individual tourist or the one traveling through the country to see? I can quickly remember on all my nonsense only one example that might be called a little parallel, and that's a price you have to pay if you walk through the Cinque Terre mountains along the coast of the Mediterranean Sea. It is simply because the footpaths there produce only a limited number of people, and that is why certain currency is being carried on. [[The president calls.]] It is natural just to walk on those specific footpaths. [[The president calls.]] It's the only time I've had my career that I've had to pay a price where the resistance was. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u61	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator of this inquiry. He's absolutely right. It is rare for a person to gather directly to individuals on account of natural land in this way. I can only recall two cases in which one in particular pays for going to a certain international mountain stop. In Kilimanjaro, Africa, there is a special national tax paid when they enter, and it is also required to hire guide and carriers from the area. Even if they do not want to travel with carriers, they do. And if you want to go to the last 100 yards of El Teide, the highest mountain in Spain, you have to buy a special license to do so. But when you're there and start the walk, it's just local collect. But with such a holistic system as here is being introduced, if you just slide through the 2013 Travel Office report and all the different exports there are at collections in these materials, it is clear that these are too complicated. The Icelandic state pays income, expenses, and taxes each year, and it has an infrastructure to do so. Of course, if a person is to create a new infrastructure, he must be exposed to some serious structure. But being making new infrastructure, a new collection system for what is going on here is way too complicated and too much and too expensive. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u62	Madam President. This is important because what I think is the most proud and most serious thing in this matter and I intend to make a subject of my speeches is the public court. It is central to the matter of making the individual tourist and even the person who travels entirely on his own roads, has not bought a service by one or anyone, has just taken care of his own travel planning and is traveling, therefore, an Icelander, that some currency in this context in general has failed because of investments in the infrastructure. I don't think it's going to pass the public rights. We can ask ourselves, " What would this look like in the eyes of Scandinavia, where the public court may be even more protected and trusted in the field than here, let's just say in Sweden? ' Of course, they concluded that the current public rights in Sweden would naturally apply to the entire European economy when they were in the EU. Yes, that was the conclusion. This was the right thing to do with your being a citizen with certain rights in this area. The conclusion is that the Roman and Bulgarians can come and some pick berries in Sweden in the forests there, and this belongs to the public court. I think if people were to start selling into the woods, they'd be long-looking in Sweden. They remembered something saying that was right and will stand on him, which is part of the same thing we'll talk about here, the right to travel through the country. I think it's the big problem. This method just doesn't work because the anti-employer's possession is moved from companies, transferred from those who use nature to the individual tourist, and it's impossible. We have to find a way around it. But I thank you otherwise. A senator for the record. He has a similar experience with this as I do. I've once found out that you had to pay to walk up to the mountain, I didn't actually make it, it was on Fuji, Japan. Then it is true that you do not pay to climb the mountain, but you need permission, and the month of October through March, when a man is obliged to employ an experienced guide. [[The president calls.]] Then you're paying for the service you're going to make for your own safety, not really for walking up onto the mountain. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u63	A respectable president. These materials have much to do with the same well. We should have gotten into the Environmental and Transport Committee some new protection laws in the fall months under a special agreement made at the time of the Supreme Court. Environment Minister, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, last winter. The idea was that an environmental committee would see the bill. Among other things, it is defined as a public right and the right to a free journey through the land. There the council would permanently take care of what it was going to do for the future. Its office, as good as it was, has been postponed, and it does not require any new work from the government. Of course, it should be that if it were being done like those in the common government, people should be talking about it so that the bill would appear at the same time as men would have agreed with ideas on how these matters should be resolved. Of course, it doesn't interfere because there is no conversation. Clearly, this is not being discussed within the government as to how to finance the construction of tourist attractions if this bill cannot be carried out. They have simply assumed that they will. At the same time, I'm told by other members of the board that they have a lot to check on, and it's definitely not going to be the same way through the council, and some have said that they're just set against the wall, and they're not going to support this. Of course, for such issues to go along, some kind of work and coordination are needed. This case testifies to the fact that it is not at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u64	A respectable president. Here is an important subject and debate. I'd like to say first, I'm celebrating for myself that tone in the speech of the highest. Ministers that it has the aim of making the bill a more acceptable solution to a subject that has been dealt with for a long time, which is a tourist currency. I can feel the tone so that the committee and members of the council could have more political space to do with this bill and if other solutions for the payment of tourists appear to be in our eyes here at the council, then they'll be on the road. I think it's important work. They have to say, at the moment, that it has been difficult to figure out the solution to this solution. In recent years, there have been a wide range of ideas. All the ideas mentioned in the discussion have been submitted at some point, attendances, high resting fees, natural rights, high worth tax levels in travel services, but always faced opposition from some direction. In the first place, I want to say in behalf of my fairness that I understand that this is not a simple matter. In many ways, this discussion has become a problem. I think all ideas are very powerful. Perhaps you can say that here comes one more idea, a natural pass, which is also highly aggressive, and it is understandable to the highest degree. A minister says: "What shall we do? It's all against us. I think we just have to step out of this and face the fact that this has been a characteristic of the discussion, but now we have to, and I share it with the highest. Minister, come up with some solution. Let us try to do so. After thinking about this matter, the idea of a natural pass, and trying to do it with earnestness and with an open mind, it comes from a feeling that it's a way of reaching a billion people. I think it's a lot too much to worry about, too many of them too many, and too much complications to get to this 1 billion that's going to build up in tourist areas. I think there are too many questions in this case that are simply too persistent. Compared to other options for reaching a billion, I feel that the test is a natural right for me. If the project is to reach a billion, it may first be pointed out that in recent years tourism has grown dramatically. In recent years, traveling to tourism has grown very much. Travelers pay taxes, pay valuable tax and income taxes, and are subject to the tax system in so many ways. So there is strong evidence to say simply: The tourism service has paid this billion that should be built up on the inside of this article. It's right in front of us. But all right, let's agree that the state's funds are pressed and this income needs to be acquired. I can just imagine a reconstituted way, raising the host tax as many people in tourism have declared that they are advising and stopping, for example, or building more restrictions on being paid by tourists; there are substantial sums of money. With these two, I think it would be easy to reach a billion miles each year. Also, I feel that one of the government's first projects was to cancel having beds go up to 14% worth extra tax. A 14% worth tax at night was concluded by a illogical speech that had taken place here at the council, where the tax was to be taken up to 25.5%. That's all I did, but it would be okay. I took advantage of the trip service to 25.5%, and I became aware that 14% was a compromise that could well have been held. I felt that the first case of the government was to take the night down to 7%. Thus, 1.5 billion from the state's budget went on a yearly basis, and that money went out. This coin could easily have been picked up and dropped into a government fund for building tourist positions, and it would not have to be brought in here with a natural pass bill. It all seemed very strange to me. Another: The government's first mission was to eliminate completely an investment plan adopted during the last terms. There, infrastructure was especially funded at tourist locations. This was specifically stated from where money should come for the building of tourist facilities. They were to come from financial gains owned by the State, mainly by the Bank of the Lands. Part of that interest was to be done on this project, and then money was also due to come from resource taxes and fishing roads. It was all agreed here and brought to book in this hall that this should be done. But in another instance, much of these incomes, which is a resource tax on the seabed, actually gave up almost unconcerned interest from the Lands Bank, which came here into budgets, 20 billion or so, flowed directly into a very controversial operation that is a legal correction of the government. At that point, I asked the highest. Secretary of finance whether he still felt that the investment plan, which included the investment plan, was still in his mind. Based on its own structure in tourist areas, it would have been priceless because it was the money, it was in the budget that was approved before Christmas, but it was almost completely unconcerned to this penitentiary, which is more than perfunctory. There was the money. It would have been possible to stick to a planned three-year plan to build a tourist position. There was the financing. They just let her slip into something else. Thus, people have been pushing away the money they once decided to run for travel. In view of this, I find a rather surprising conclusion that we are now discussing and having a bill of natural passes, which is subject to so many obvious problems. I'm just gonna go over who they are in my mind. I think it's okay for people to pay for a natural price and build up tourist positions. I think 1500 bucks. Not much money. I can imagine that all of us were under obligation, which is why with a nose tax, paying 1,000 or 1,500 bucks. and all tourists would be obliged to pay 1,000,5,1,500 dollars. And the money that makes money for this project I can picture. It's not the money, it's not the cause, it's the point that people can be fined on their way around the country. It's the idea that you can be in a community tongue buying tomatoes and then a person dressed up and guilty will come because you don't have a lot of natural passes. A branch address is a tourist location. There, a bus ride about 80 to 100 thousand people a year to see who are the people, and they sell tomatoes in bickers. What is the limit? If I'm swimming in some other tourist lake, can I expect a guard to fine me because I don't have a natural pass? Privates should be able to do this. The forest of Housekill? Where's the line? When am I enjoying nature as an Icelander's resort? So do I have to wear this pass all the time? What will be the reaction of the people when they are fined 15 of you? K. for being in Branch Language? There's this moment with this idea that I don't agree on and I don't think it's possible. I think it's a very bad practitioner because if they're supposed to make it work and everybody's supposed to buy nature passes, then they have to tell people that they're gonna be very active, they're gonna be all over the country, people can expect to be asked about natural passes, otherwise this idea is totally dead as a harvest. There's got to be some kind of threat in this idea. There must also be some administrative and grammatical basis for the guilt. It's got to be settled. Who decides what a tourist resort is? Won't there be a disagreement about that already? I'm about to be fined 15 of you. K.? Who decided this was a place to fine me? That's not clear on the bill. This has to be clear. What's the penalty not to pay the fine? Do I go to jail if I don't pay a fine because I didn't have a lot of natural passes when I was buying tomatoes in the League language? What's the test? If I don't go to jail, isn't this just something I say no to, I don't pay because I'm just going to walk around the country? How does it work? And with tourists who buy three years' match when they come to the country and get a ticket? What if they don't pay? Does that mean they're not getting out of the country? Are they stopped, or are we going to have patrols all over the stupid confusion to seek out the people? Doesn't it get to come back to the country? What's going on? What happens? Have you thought this through? How is this going to work? How is this going to work out? That's what I'm talking about when I say that this way is way too clumsy and unappreciative to obtain a billion sectors of industry that are beginning to wonder hundreds of billions. I think it's weird. Sometimes it has been said that the adventure in Icelandic tourism and experience with Iceland's nature is freedom, that humans can go about their own way and be free in nature, can think about it and be with themselves. I think it's totally obvious when I read this bill that the adventure in Icelandic tourism and Icelandic nature is threatened. It's not a good feeling if you travel around the country to be able at any moment to expect a parking ticket. I say testimonials because I didn't think it was in the best interests of the idea when that illustration was used that natural guards were like testimonials. I am often welcome in the middle of the city of Reykjavík to see if I have paid for a ruling or not. I don't want to be nervous about whether I'm expecting a parking ticket over all the experience of Iceland's nature and tourism. I think we should try to find a better way, and I think they're too busy and they're a lot of people.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u65	A respectable president. I thank the senator for his good speech and perhaps a little bit more than that, but this morning or the rest of this discussion. Since I was on a budget committee, it was good for me to pay attention to the investment plan, how it was financed, i.e. the part we might be considering, the infrastructure of tourism. It was long said by the current government that it was not financed, that it was just air. But it wasn't at all. This air they used, like a whale. A senator entered here in a controversial operation. So there's money. This is about how they are taken care of. It is often spoken of as being large and important and all of that. Does the senator think that the state should support the building work because the branch has grown so fast for a certain period of time? He spoke of the reconstituted route, perhaps he would like to see it mixed in some way that the tourist officials paid a part of that price, i.e. Those selling the access to our resources. This morning we noted that perhaps it was wise to set up a resource fund years ago. I think we can agree on that. However, while reaching what we need, the reconstituted way could be accomplished to repair the main wounds of our tourism by building wood, some of the state coming in there, and then taking out a resource tax that we could find out, whether it was a host tax or something.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u66	A respectable president. The answer is: Yes. If we just go over our investment plan and all, "What was the test? They saw that the tourism had grown, and they saw the river at the tourist stations. They saw the obvious need for investment in the interiors of this article so that the branch and the tourism industry themselves would not destroy exactly what the branch is growing on, they would not remember the story of the article itself. It's obvious. You need to invest in this. The argument was behind the investment plan that it was justified to take something that is exploited by the State's belongings - in part, not all but part of it - and use for investments in another structure that will produce money in the future. This was faced as an obvious maintenance and building project, adding the addition of tourism, the construction of tourist facilities. From the standpoint of the State, this is something that is absolutely justified. It's an operation that creates better living around increasing sectors. We're doing this in other areas, the State's job is to create a setting and conditions for a flourishing career. Why is this not the role of the State in the case of tourism? Is it not a very good idea to use money that is from government property elsewhere to improve the basics of other employment? That's a good thought. I think we should just look at it. If there's now a billion people missing to go to this obvious tourist building, we should consider mixed roads and try to get that money so that people pay them without thinking about it, and we don't play the fairy tale in tourism. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u67	A respectable president. I thank the senator for that answer. I think we're on the same line as this. I agree with what he's rolling up here, that's his vision. V.E.G. A minister has said that there are 10 or 12 places, and then it's free permission from private sources. They will likely be more places where people start charging because they are all free of it, at least they are not trying to resist it in the bill. It lacks absolutely on this vision, I think, on the bill, i.e. that we will see for any longer future whether it will be just these places or not and whether private officials will be permitted to charge much more into their place than the government is going to go into. The Senator talked a lot about what happens if you don't pay, fines, pennies, and other things. The above mentioned was that a person may not go to prison for parking tickets, such as abduction. What kind of host are we and want to be? What kind of host does the Icelandic nation want to be? Does she want to have the appearance that this is merely a matter of thinking about money and getting as much of a tourist as possible? I want to know what's wrong. A senator agrees with me that there is no good question about it and whether we should rather take it through consumer taxes, i.e. income of tourists. V.E.G. A minister here mentioned the definition of what a tourist resort is. In spite of the national programme, there is also a vagueness of what is to be discussed at a later time; it shows that a destination is defined as a place of attraction to the tourist because of its nature and history. [[The president calls.]] There is no question about how such a place comes into existence, how it gains such a story, so anyone, a community or anyone else, can decide what will happen to it... [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u68	A respectable president. That is exactly what it is, the authority to fine someone must be based on a very clear legal issue. That's what I think is the most clumsy part of the bill, i.e. that it is very open. Although they say they're 10 or 12 places, like I mentioned in my talk, privates can apply to become members of the same group and become tourist attractions. This may spread. There are lots of places in Iceland that we don't talk about in everyday conversation as tourists. So when it's blown up, it's tens of thousands who come there every year, for example, I mention branch language. I think there's up to 100 up. Someone who comes and sees. Why isn't it a tourist place? This doesn't work? What, then, has become the legal obligation to fine someone if he is there? It's just gotten really hard. And use your penalties? I can imagine a lot of Icelanders trying to get it tested, getting guilty all over the country. So? Is there any money or what? And so if you're a foreigner, can't you leave the country if you haven't paid? And that's how you could continue to count. Yes, if enough people do trouble around it, enough will be involved, then the tourism will be too much about it. Icelanders just want to charge you money? When you look in the account, for example, in Florida, you pay a lot of money on your travels. There are all kinds of market income. I think it's like if you buy beer at a bar, then a certain percentage goes to the campers for an example. You don't have to disagree about that. I think if people can see in their account that part of the money goes to nature and build tourist facilities in Iceland, I don't think anyone would disagree about it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u69	President. I thought it was a problem. A senator of interesting things. He reviewed the entertainment that has taken place since the beginning when the government was so determined to change everything that had been planned before she took it here that in the flumbruding process, she reduced the worthy extra tax for a single 14%. For that, 1.5 billion were to be delivered in 2014 and expected much more because the number of tourists has grown much more than expected when these were planned. In fact, a respected president, I believe there are as many tourists in January as they were in June some years ago, so there has been a huge change in this. I agree that we should've had a cost of extra taxes for the inn of 14%, then we wouldn't be in this situation right now. However, I also feel that those who use natural resources, such as nature itself, have to think of a price. In this regard, I am most impressed with what is called the New Zealand way. What is the senator's attitude toward her?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u70	A respectable president. I'm not well enough in the New Zealand way to discuss it here. However, I reviewed in my speech which prince I would like to guide in this regard, that the currency does not become too much of a payer and money, and that it has no activity. I don't think anybody's standing up for the amount. If there's a billion people missing to build a tourist position, we're gonna need a thousand bucks from every tourist we meet here. There's very good and strong evidence that certain tourists in the tourism service are the best way to get paid, that it's just for the ticket. They say, "Yes, okay, but then it's also happening on the inside. " Then I'll say: "Okay, then we'll try to support domestic flights in another way if we have to. I think it's an overwhelming project to achieve in some way the Millennium in the interest of the million tourists that come here every year. I do not fully understand why it is necessary to make all this great contribution to that assignment. I agree with what I thought was in my words. A senator, that it is a worthwhile job to get people to realize that, of course, we need to put money on this case, and it is understandable that people will have to pay only for their experiences. But I believe that the collection should be more vigorous and that people should not have to become as much aware of it as they are. I don't think she'll ever be controversial.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u71	President. Hv. A senator noted some differences between when people might be expected to be fined because they did not have a natural pass or if they had not bought it. There's been talk of a Capitol in this regard, that me and the Icelanders would have to pay to go to the Þingles. That was my choice in a talk of the highest order. A minister this morning said that she wanted to make something of it and said, "That's not right. You can drive through the House and you could go to the Plains to be beaten. We don't pay to watch the waterfall, but we pay to stand on the platform in front of the waterfall. We pay for the trails that lead up to the falls. Let's say I took my grandchildren to the top of the Þingu always, so I always said to them, "Don't go on the path -- or let them stay on the path because they don't have to pay because they're so small, but I'd always be on the other side of the path. " Is it not merely a check that we would not use the steps on the Þingles, which are suggested in an effort to protect nature? I know why. A senator may not be able to answer this because it's natural so much confusion, but he may be able to help me to understand what kind of confusion all of this is.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u72	A respectable president. That's exactly the fun approach to this case, the steps of the Þingir. In what way are they different from bicycle trails in Reykjavík or just roads around the country? If we want to build the roads, transportation, should we present a road pass bill, some sort of match that humans must have in order to drive the roads? The roads are built, they are very important structures. Communication, Internet, also very important. Should we have some kind of network passes that people have to buy in order to be online? There are other things. Do you think we're going to introduce such a good idea to all of the infrastructure in this country? Of course not! She's ridiculous. It's clumsy. She's stupid. But are we paying to build up the roads? Yes, we will. We'll do it through the gas and the product on cars and the other, and that we'll do it as we do in cities that then run to road repairs. There's no debate about that. That's a hell of a lot of money. People pay them. Everyone sees the need for that. It is just collected, so people pay it at some point when they have to take advantage of the roads, such as when buying gasoline. I'm sure that any fee I pay for using the Internet, slides in some way into a government fund, I just don't know it. We have in this infrastructure, and especially in the way, just finding ways to let the use somehow pay off money that flows to build up the building. Of course, the same thought should apply when we consider the steps we take on the Þingles.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u73	President. This is where we'll talk about a natural pass bill. It is all right to maintain that it is well, so it should be noted that after two years of cuts and funds are finally used to build and protect tourists, and a total lack of funds for land protection sees itself, and in some way, they try to mark the revenues for the building up of tourist facilities. You see, all of us agree on the need to protect tourism, since, fortunately, the number of tourists who want to enjoy the Icelandic world has grown dramatically. The attraction of the Icelandic natural world, however, is the same as the freedom experienced by tourists, foreign and domestic. Let us maintain that currency for access to Icelandic nature will not be merely from foreign tourists, the highest. A minister spoke of as a mass in a talk earlier and would insist on making money at the foreign mass, rather than becoming Icelandic tourists who want to travel around their country free and independent also charged. The number of tourists has grown to such an extent that long ago it is time to develop a targeted policy in this sector. The need for long ago is driving in all ways, not only as a response to tourism in the resort, but also to create a whole range of policies in this sector, certainly out of the construction of tourist facilities. We need general policies for the protection of Icelandic nature and how we want to direct people's efforts to educate people in this article, how we want to have the management of income sources and how to manage them for environmental protection and for the preservation of sensitive places. We need to inform people, introduce Iceland in foreign countries, be in good marketing and have some long - term vision of how we want to build this sector. I miss not seeing any more of that. We all know that we need money to develop a travel policy and build up the article. It's not financial, as I'm saying, who are going to some kind of universal conference but in this response to protecting tourist areas. All right. V.E.G. A minister thinks it's the best way to charge people to want to watch and touch nature, the nature that we all have, and we never have, and don't have to pay for it, but to do well, protect and protect. The minister does not want to reimburse the companies, who are truly making more money on the increase in the number of tourists, but he wants to pay and tax people for their natural enjoyment. It is the spirit of the law that I make most of warning and criticism very, but it is also their operation and management, which is quite vague. All other routes are that I know better for revenue, and I'm more useful to tourism than the way of the Minister. There has just been an increase in the value tax on the quality of the tourism industry that will be available in 2016. In addition, there is an increase in the value tax on the other head of the state funds, related to tourism, such as the host tax that is being canceled and will not be replaced and will fail to lose 2017 to want to the highest value. Minister. I wondered, " Is it not ideal instead of bringing in taxation on the quest and freedom of individuals to take part of this worthwhile extra tax in the recreation of tourism and thus marking the sum of the building at tourist locations and their protection? ' I remind you that in the time of a former financial minister, now seated in the position of a president behind me, a total of 750 million were distributed. K. which came to payment in 2012 or 2013 for the development and protection of tourist attractions and were in connection with the three - year - old investment plan of the former government, which was not continued, and we have considered some of these. In addition to the huge financial height marked by the construction of tourist positions, the cost of a bed was legalized - and agrees with the members of the council who have come and talked about it - the longest and most efficient way to obtain access from the tourism services. Let's just move on before I come into the spirit of the law to discuss the project and the management of the nature pass bill. You see, there's a lot very unclear to me on the highest bill. Minister. What is the cost of collecting the natural pass or the price? Is the fee to finance the cost of the natural pass? How many workers are expected to monitor citizens and tourists who come here, tourists who spent a total of 1 million last year? The bill mentioned, and the review of the Ministry of Economic Affairs is that it is critical that only one work value in the bill is expected to monitor that individuals are owners of the values of nature passes. One person is to oversee a million tourists and the rest of us who live here. This will be a difficult job, as I said, makes serious comments to the Ministry of finance not to be expected to collect and monitor the natural pass and fines that are one of the clearest principles in this bill, i.e. how high the fines are and the penalty for not having the natural pass. Who are these elements that are always talking about? The only place to talk about nature prices - it's not in the bill itself - is on the job and innovation website where the Ministry is trying to present answers to questions raised by the natural pass. It speaks of a natural price. They are not the only words mentioned in the bill. Who are these elements? They're the dark people who're supposed to be in these jobs, like what they're supposed to be. paritaprevir Steingrímsson Steingrimurson talked about, and being of all the beds and pops up between the seaves and make you miserable? I can't quite figure it out. There's no mention of this. As I said before, the spirit of the bill I'd like to mention here is one of the most important and the prince who is behind it, if I may, by permission of the President, let go. You see, it's the approach to the public rights that the bill involves. The Universal Court means that all of us are permitted to travel through the land and enjoy nature as long as we are comfortable and undeniably corrupt. It's permitted to go through uncivilized possession countries without special permission. I'm just trying to recall to all of us the public rights. In fact, the public rights can be limited, but there are very little restrictions in the public court. The rights of a country are permitted to be limited by the means of a person's movements on land. Government borders are open to all, with few exceptions, but public rights free movement can only be restricted in designated areas of national parks where it is necessary to protect plants, animals, cultures, and so forth. Another approach to the public court is not allowed when it comes to an explanation in the public court. Reading this bill raises questions as to whether it's not taking allilli to the public court. Under these circumstances, a group of members, such as Land Protection, Iceland's Travel Company, 4x4 Travel Club, and an outdoor society, are taking away a declaration that they make of nature's rights and cost to individual places, we may greatly weigh the public right to free people's movements throughout the country. In part, their announcement of February last noted that they believe that natural rights and expenditures are remarkable in the public rights of free movement for uninhabited land. It also gives specific warnings against the use of natural bulbs in order to take charge of areas, thus controlling public movement. Plans that conflict with important rights to enjoy the land and its nature are also opposed. It also points to carrying non-reflecting roads in the public court, such as the prepared way of coming and leaving fees and changes in hostilities fees. The protection of the public court to travel the natural world, enjoy it, and not have to pay for it, does not have to worry about being fined by a man in every studio or behind any wallow - I certainly agree. The prime address of the Industrial and Business Minister is to weigh the public rights, the traditions that we can trace back to land, and is truly part of Icelandic history and culture, i.e. The freedom to travel through the nature of the country and enjoy it, this freedom of movement. What a minister would like to do is weigh the public rights, weigh the freedom to travel, increase the surveillance of the citizens, increase taxation of individuals rather than of a rabid company, and as much as making a profit at the foreign mass that the minister called foreign tourists just a few minutes ago. Do we really agree that this is the right way to improve the progress of tourism and to promote these activities through nature protection and free general access to all of us? I'll allow me to doubt that very much. I also allow myself to hope for it, topmost. President, this bill is not going to be legal unless it's a big change and the natural pass isn't going to come up.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u74	Mr. President. Hv. At the end of his talk, a senator asked if this was the right way. My answer is very direct: No, it's not the right way, it's actually the wrong way to get money to build a place in travel places. I'll never agree to this bill, I'll never buy any natural passes and I'll never pay a fine for this. Then I think the next step at the highest. Ministers are raising prisons in this country to take people like me and the highest. The president and many more who will never sell themselves to this law. Never. The Universal Court is sacred. Our freedom to travel our own land and see it is sacred rights. Some guy's half-naked. A minister must never allow it to be taken away from us. I completely agree with what was presented in a speech. A senator, who felt that she was better than others, who have spoken here today, addressed the prince's key point in this case, which is the public court. It is one of the few regulations that have been living in law all the streets of the empire. This has always been one of the laws that humans have taken through every change in nature's protection. Last year we talked about it in those sales. I didn't hear any better than that, but it's time for everybody to agree. A minister, and he puts a bill that moves directly into the heart of this law. That's why I agree with everything. A senator said and asked her honestly, and would she like to answer for me on behalf of her party: Does it ever happen that the left movement offers this bill, this way, even if some scraps are cut? This is simply a matter of breaking basic rights. It must never happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u75	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the question and the speech where he entered the same nucleus as me in my speech earlier, i.e. In terms of the public court, which is so holy to us. He's historic and cultural. I also thank you for this opportunity to clarify my point more fully. I may not have been clear enough in my speech earlier. No, we won't support this bill at this time, not at this time, because we won't be supporting a press conference. We're not going to support a bill that's going to allow people to enjoy, live, and travel around Iceland's nature. We will by no means do it, we will never do it. I also pay attention to the tone I heard in the words of the minister, i.e. We could make money in foreign tourists, that we really were going to make it, this foreign mass. Let's take them a little bit more, and let's pour them all out into it forever. Let's try to make the most of it. I can't support that either. I'd rather see structure and vision when it comes to tourism. We need to start thinking this whole thing. We need to look to the future. We need to ask ourselves, " How do we really want to build up here? ' When we consider the construction of tourism, we certainly need to maintain our public rights and we need to hold on to our freedom, which is not only dear to us who live and work and live, but also to those who come here and want to enjoy Icelandic nature. It is the freedom people seek, freedom to travel, freedom to enjoy and experience, instead of always hanging over a fine, a sincere human desire to enjoy nature, that we are fined, that we have to pay a price for it. It's certainly much better to pay the host's fee, and I think that's just about what we can all agree on, but not this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u76	Mr. President. The lack of access to the case from the viewpoint of a fundamental stand is made very clear in the highest bill. Minister. I couldn't find a word there on public rights. But what caught my attention, and why. paritaprevir In fact, Rósa Björk Brynjólfsdóttir Brylflfóttir made a detailed discussion of his speech, was that it has a detailed design in which to punish men and fine those who aim to enjoy their own country as they and their rivers have been since the country's construction. That doesn't make any sense to me. If there's something I miss from the coverage of it. A senator who spoke earlier is what appeared on the Ministry's website. Ministers where that possibility is actually pulled forward and pushed toward the point that those who own land sold under private rights can also install their own systems for collecting. Then we have fleas of different systems: one collects it, another collects it, and then collects the highest. Minister of Ragnheððið Árnadóttir Arnadotir especially for his entourage. The original purpose is completely out in the wind, i.e. To bring in a harmony, to settle, and to create a uniform policy on what created kaos under the hand of this government and placebo in this area. It is also important to point out that point. I'm asking why. A member of Congress: When you think that we have here in recent years spent a lot of time tearing down the Constitution that included nature and freedom of movement, is it not clear when we face the Commission's attack against what we believe to be one of the most fundamental rights in Iceland, that it is going all the way in which men take a stand for the future and the oppressive rulers in the future and make it a success in a constitution? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u77	President. Thank you. A senator for this question and enthusiasm that is not without reason, for it truly fills people with enthusiasm because it truly means being weighed to the public court. I sincerely hope that there will be no change in the constitution in this subject because it is our - it is difficult to say that this is the Holy Court, but it is certainly a strong cultural right to us Icelanders, the public right. I agree with what. Senator, public rights are not clearly stated in the Minister's bill or the travel centre definition. It is not defined in any way as to what a tourist location is. It's open. There is an opening for all kinds of private currency, as well as public currency, remuneration of us, citizens and people of the country, for traveling around, enjoying, watching, and viewing nature, the right that we have truly been holy since our country's initiation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u78	[[The President reminds us that the point was that a speech period was one minute in the second pass, but it was not allowed to be shortened by reason of trouble. paritaprevir Skarphéðinn's nurse.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] President. I thank you for a very good talk, and then I wholeheartedly agree. Senator on the importance of the public court. What I'm wondering is, why are they going such a complicated way of doing something simple? It's clear that tourists are moving into the economy, and I think it's very strange why it's just not possible to take it out of our common funds, because we're getting into a lot of money together. Would it not be the simplest of all the building projects needed to take place, for the benefit of everyone, the Icelanders, and our fine guests? It's always been that when it comes to mixing things with new taxes, because it's natural nothing but tax, it often does not work well in building things. Let's watch the Nef tax on RUS, it's never returned all to RUS. The track's starting to scare. What would the senator's view be the best way to put pressure on us to get this essential structure? Or it's possible that we should go out and live some life, such as that. paritaprevir Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir, as you are constantly careful not to enter the path, which, of course, is quite contrary to the famous history of the Rauðhetta Rids? Is it not better that we stay on the very steps that we share in building up? Why is this structure not possible? Why has this taken so long when it is evident that our economic growth includes the growing flow of tourists?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u79	I could hardly say that question better and thank you. A senator for the questions. I find it very difficult to understand why the earmarks of a common fund and the income fund are not possible to build up a tourist facility. But I'd also like to see an ear label for the capital to take some kind of vision of a controversial industry. How do we want it? How do we want to build it up? Yes, it is certainly necessary to have farms, reserved income companies, from our common fund to protect tourist attractions and contribute to the construction and prevention of rivers, but I also feel that there should also be a sector of revenue that would take place in some kind of targeted structure in the tourism service. Then I'm talking about education, as I mentioned earlier in my speech, and the level of education we need to educate ourselves in this industry. We've been on our heels when it's time. We need to make a contribution when it comes to education. We also need to make a contribution when it comes to affairs and services. And then, of course, I'd like to see a fee for the growing companies. They have grown, and they have been making a great deal of money just because the industry has grown, but not increasing the price of the individual and thus restricting their efforts simply to travel across the country. Thanks for the tip. That's exactly what a senator does. Of course, I feel the same way as my party goes to the common fund and take it out, marking it into some kind of building fund, a fund that benefits the tourism. I would like to have seen a much clearer law on this in the bill. I certainly hope that in the Environment Minister's bill, which will establish the development of tourism from the environmental environment, there will be an ever clearer vision for the development of tourism. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u80	Thank you so much. There was also something else that I cut off in a very good speech of the senator, the discussion of this common vision, since it is so seldom discussed, but it is very grateful that someone would discuss it because it is not just a lack in this sector but in general; where are we going as a nation? One thing that seems to have been a primary part of politics is that everyone in common is missing because people are always thinking about the next four years. So I want to thank the senator for the importance of this. I really hope that while this is going on at the council, it will be discussed and that members of the council will be more concerned with thinking in the long term instead of taking a pizza pole or video - rent Asian, as it seems to be a response to a Catholic or a response order instead of thinking a long way to the future. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u81	Thank you. A senator for those words. I truly believe that we often lack the need to discuss a future, whether it is in this industry or in other areas of society, how we want to build up our community. There's also another thing I wanted to mention, but I didn't find that in my previous answer, that's exactly what I would have liked to see in the bill more emphasis on the ban, not only the construction of the tourist facility, but also the blood-scraping defense that's been bleeding because of the lack of money and lack of human resources. Landkeeping is so important in teaching people who are travelling and entering these delicate tourist areas. It is also part of the vision we would like to share in all the slots, i.e. Educating and teaching people, people who have acquired landland and geographic education and can instruct those who come into these regions on geology, on geography, on health and nature protection, etc. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's part of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u82	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for his speech. She put great emphasis on a vision in these matters. Of course, it is impossible to agree, and it is vital that those sitting here have a vision of the future. She also mentioned correctly that the issues under consideration for natural passes have been considered on at least Two years at the highest. Minister or Minister at the appropriate department. I also note that some natural bulbs have been in separate laws for quite a while and much longer. In view of the importance of a vision for the future. A senator spoke about, and in view of the very fact that this case had been brought about, it would have been proposed that this would describe the future. A senator believes that it is urgent to appear, her vision of these matters. I think, and she might answer if she disagrees with me, that we agree that handling natural bulbs is lacking. What path does it take? A senator will go to respond to any undesirable problems in those places? This was not mentioned in the talk, but I took it as a matter of reply that she mentioned the host's fee as a more acceptable option, thought it would be easier to share from funds that would collect after a bedside fee. I'm asking why. A senator: Is there any fundamental difference between this gathering process, the host's fee, or the procedure proposed in the bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u83	I appreciate the question. Senator. I would like to remind you that the left movement of ◯ green supply suggested that the budget and funds be contributed to the infrastructure and development of tourism so that the left movement has shown its motivation and asked for funding to strengthen the infrastructure of tourism. Hv. A senator wondered if there was any difference between the charge of the host's fee and the procedure now shown by the natural pass on the prime minister. Yes, I believe there is a repercussions, in which the host's fee is a payment of a company in tourism that gives a certain profit, taxation of the companies in our common funds, and we in our left movement have agreed that there can be earmarks for construction at tourist locations or for travel services. So, we believe, I agree with my group in that there is a better way, easier way, more efficient way to set up revenues from our joint fund with taxation, such as incubating the cost and earmarks of money that are then to be built up in the tourism infrastructure. I think it's the simplest way and the most efficient. That's my answer. I am very happy that the senator shares that thought with me, so he calls for a vision of the future in tourism, the exciting and national industry, and making a great deal of money and making us all available, creating a lot of interesting and interesting jobs, but we need a vision and direction in that sector. [[The president calls.]] I am very glad to hear that the senator shares that view with me. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u84	A respectable president. All right. The senator considers the host's fee a better way to collect tax that should be collected for the construction of tourist facilities. Does the senator count it quite fair when it comes to what exchange of tourists in this country? Now it's clear that foreign tourists come here in a violent stream, but they don't necessarily stay in hotels, they stay over like that. In tents, there's a variety of ways in the hatching. As the senator came in here a million foreign tourists. That's the right thing to say to me. A senator believes that the construction and protection of these areas should be the primary part of the taxpayers? Because this, of course, is the result if the sole cost of stay is due. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u85	I thank the senator very much for the question. I just have to admit that when I'm staying in foreign hotels and paying some kind of stay fee, I don't place it as some requirement that there be a price in the structure or collective funds in the country. I can't quite get the connection to it. A senator says, about foreign tourists who stay in the country and pay for a bedside fee that is used at least 100 cents a night. I don't quite understand the context. I just can't figure out what's wrong. A senator is talking about because, of course, we pay some kind of fees to those countries when we travel abroad and I don't think that's what I'm doing. I don't think there are many people who feel it's worth leaving some money to build up in that community. So I don't quite understand this thought of the Senator, maybe we can talk it over here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u86	A respectable president. This bill shows that the government that now wants practical human beings to be more than pillars, prefers to go to the public rather than leave strong sectors in the use of national resources. Since infancy, we Icelanders have been brought up to have the land, that Icelandic nature is part of our inheritance, a wealth that will not be taken from us, and there we can look for building batteries, as it is called, the peace and beauty that we ourselves enjoy, regardless of our social and economic status. The situation is different now. If this bill becomes a law, the Icelanders will be entitled to contact with the natural spheres of the country unless they have a price. So it is no longer enough to be a taxpayer in this country to be considered its owner. Now one is defined as a tourist wherever you step down a foot outside the garden of Eden. It is a change that involves both our identity and our sense of culture. It is as if someone is breaking up a sacred dispute, breaking up some silver thread that has always been in the sense of a national sense. If this becomes a reality, our songs and songs will change colors. Their translation will fade away and wither. I remind you of the poems so many people love by Guðmundur Böðvarsson in the poem followed, and I find it appropriate, a respectable president, this is about to become a reality, to have these poems over, with your permission, while they have some significance. In this song the Father receiveth the little son, and sheweth him the land, saying, Come on, baby. labbi, walkie, daddy boy, come on. Give the Dream pigeons staying inside for a while - Glory is the sky. The heart of the town, I'm having a party for the day. Come on, my call. We'll walk up the river Into the moswagon River, extending the gorge Through the moaning, - Hear what I'm singing - Like a Lamb's Mother search in ancient paths At the back of a huge circle. From here you see the sea white glory wrapped, Keeped and buried gold and pearlshell, if you're a good catcher. But on the mountains high from the sea of blue You sleep an old seal. Glitters on the ground and underweight, It's got a good swim, and it's a skunk. Little Traveller now wake up Your truth and your faith. - Lind in the picnic stream. lying on the heathen dreams, - This country belongs to you. This is where Grandpa and Grandma used to live. Like my dad and mom. One lifetime and a time of shame Get each and every one - sometimes narrow points. But you're supposed to remember all life, this country owns you. If we're having a problem Through the Darkness Grieves at Betrayals such as long-term berries We in the world here, that you do not need to choose: You must never sell it's out of your hand. Let's walk a long way. The land is wide in its arms. All Streets Salvage My old land. shows his heart. muna, Mommy baby. Remember, daddy's boy... That this is your country. Mr. President. It was fun and good to be able to handle this text because it is the core of the attitude of most Icelanders in our country and also tell us what impressions we feel when we are then confronted with the ideas presented here on the natural right. The idea that those who enjoy it, such as the Minister expressed it in his introduction this morning, conflicts with the legitimate requirement that those who earn money from nature's efficiency, whether it is used in the form of energy efficiency and efficiency, fishing and tourism in the wide sense, that those who earn money have the means to attack in order to protect the resources and ensure that they will remain with the people. Travel is the country's largest growth industry in recent years, and it has already become a basic industry, an article that is estimated to be billions of dollars and is now out of the water road, no matter how it is calculated, I don't know how to do it. However, tourism is at least one of our basic forms of employment and, of course, is supposed to be a stream of tourism development, especially the companies who make money making money on natural bulbs and taking advantage of such places as sheep and cows, which are their dairy cows. Travellership is ready to pay, but it is not listened to. It's paybacks. It would be a much better slogan in this case than to refer to those who enjoy it. More important, those who enjoy are the public, who are already paying their taxes and duties in the community for their children and for themselves. But it seems to be a heart issue for the government that is now gathering into the pockets of the common, milking people, not a pillar. At times, I've discussed total resource use, and I'd like to discuss it one more time. And because it's the highest. The Minister of the Interior Minister, who is now not in the hall to listen to my speech, and I'm sorry, of course, that earlier today she did not dissuade her as a reminder that I had spoken at the council before, I would like to point the minister to reading my talks better because I first spoke 16 nevermber 2009, having discussed it annually since when I've been in Congress, most likely in March 2012. I mentioned earlier in this morning a report by a resource conference in 2012 focusing on the social dimension of sustainable development. The Resource Policy Committee urged that factors such as the equation and the democratic control of resources should be considered to be the growth potentials of those that are directly dependent on resource efficiency and attention to the right of future generations. Sadly, that thought has failed to control the decisions and proposals of those in authority. And now we find ourselves in the awkward situation of taking sides on a bill that allows the Icelanders to walk through their land. Is it really hope, though, that he or she may talk about the erection instead of the natural pass in this discussion? Here in Iceland, we have no resource resources and the resources of resources and the management of resources that flow from resources does not occur in one place, unfortunately. The basic concept of resource resources means that all of the resources of the country are declared national property and that those using them for their trade pay for the rent or resource costs, that the access of the resources is distributed along open paths and guidelines on the basis of tenders, instead of the current budget. In terms of the use of the marine resource, the quality to be distributed to a distinct group without any open rules to it. The basic concept, no matter what resources are being involved, is that these are national resources, their distribution of values opens rules and equations as well as a charge, which would then be funded, resource funds that have community-based work to do, e.g. infrastructure, such as transport, local language, and, especially, the protection of tourist facilities, should this occur. This is a thought that involves the social responsibility of those who use the resources, and that they earn, even of the intense resources, of which the public in Iceland has been brought up to be his own. Remember, Mama, darling, remember, you're a daddy's country, singing to the children. And do we really want to take away those words? Not me.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u87	V.E.G. President. First of all, I want to thank you. A senator for a good talk, inspired and romantic, beautiful. But there's one thing I'd like to ask. A senator in, because I'm not quite sure I understand a tax deposit like her, i.e. Yeah. A senator testified that the branch itself had offered to raise and pay for the stay. But now it is not the article that pays the fee for the stay, but the members of the household, i.e. that the article is merely a collector. It is in itself a price that submits to the same laws as a sink, that is, the user who pays, not the collector. So I'd like to get an explanation of this because I felt that this was a quick mistake in the senator's words that those who are to be paid, but if they are spoken of as having a stay tax or a stay tax, it's certainly not the one who's making use of it but the one who's enjoying it, namely, the one who's enjoying it. The customer who pays. I'm also asking, because we're talking about a business, which, of course, is making out on persons, wherenot. For example, a senator counts as a cost to the above article. change of taxation or any other taxation, whatever. A senator believes that the account for that happens forever?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u88	A respectable president. It's a bit of a hair-to-head with the balance fee. The gratifying fee is a natural cost to travel on the basis of the income paid by tourists, the greater the provision of hostels, so the article certainly deserves the money. [[Up front.]] The money they have enters the article on the basis of the trades they have in the tourism service. In this way, it can be said that the article itself receives income from a trust fund. I would rather discuss the idea that tourism, such as other resource users in Iceland, paid resource bills, and that was now the main burden of my speech, for the use of Icelandic natural bulbs for professional purposes, and that they will earn them as well as income from the use of other resources, will become a fund that could be used for social projects.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u89	V.E.G. President. I noticed that the input of a talk was quite noticed. The senator turned to the resource charge for travel services, and I'm sure it's an interesting party. However, I wondered about the project because if we were to take just an example of one of an independent jeep driver who earns money by moving people onto a farm, how are we going to calculate the resource use from it to his, so how are we going to do some other pearls? On the other hand, I'm going to set aside what I said earlier to the host's fee, which is not the cost of travel. There's a fee for visitors, nothing different than a sink as I said before, so I think it's quite done. Another is the six - year period in which the tax was originally due. It was originally to return 320 million when it was calculated the first time, 80 million, this year it was to return 146 million, if I remember correctly. However, we are talking about the fact that the total income of natural passes, as set up, could easily take between a billion and a half. I ask: Is the senator willing to extend a fee, as if the unrewarded bedsidement fee has not been due what was required? The inside is complex, does the senator consider it a right to extend that fee?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u90	Mr. President. The grappling fee is a fee for a special service enjoyed by guests in the tourism service and is therefore a measure of the business being carried out in the tourism business. This enables us to better identify both the extent of our tourism and the extent to which it is able to produce income into the financial budget. On the other hand, the natural pass - when it comes to charging for places of access, such as tourist locations that are undefined really in this bill and the word much more open and vaguely what you mean, you start to charge for everything else. And so I give the senator a quick answer: I want to look for any other way to finance the construction of tourist facilities in Iceland than to reach out to the public, the taxpayers and the duties in this society that are supposed to provide income in the state of state and to care for community projects. I would like to look for ways other than to reach out to these taxpayers to survive the development of tourist facilities, for there are others who use that tourist location. Those who use the tourist location, that is my prospect, to provide a source of their structure and to establish such social structure.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u91	Mr. President. I thank the senator for his speech. It was so good to hear the poem follow. It has something to do with your core. I just wanted to come into the discussion right now. The senators owned here before me. It's just about charging on the other hand and chasing him down or charging him through the law and returning. That's very different. It is also very special that those independents, who advertised the election, would reduce taxes and reduce them, and God knows what, here, is putting on additional taxes. Well, there's a little bit of a weird. I just wanted to roll it up with a little bit of what. A senator has decided that, in view of the methods we have developed, certain recreation within the tourism service will become a worthwhile tax obligation - that the tax would be able to slip into the marked fund and possibly through some mixed route, whether the state can reach it as such a party while we are reaching up here to some extent because the tourism service has grown very fast, if the government should not just place it in some way at first. I agree with what. A senator with regard to the resource fund and that those offering this service will pay for such a fee. It is also the thought of putting our nature on the market, as I said earlier today, to be a host in the country and to receive people and to try to make money on them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u92	Mr. President. Yes, I certainly feel that all forms of recreation in tourism, transport, and harpoon are available to me, ferrying over rivers, and other means of tourism become worthy of extra tax control and other recreation. At least I think it's a way that would be closer to this context than to this natural pass. I also think a return fee might be an option because it's at least that way. Exceptionally, which is already paying taxes and obligations in the Icelandic Social Fund. The important thing is natural, as I said earlier, that I think that all roads other than these are what we should look for. The future mice should be looking overall on all the uses of natural resources and, including those we call travel services.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u93	A respectable president. I thank the senator for that answer. That's exactly what I want to think about. It's actually starting to build a new system for 1.5 billion in the future. I don't think it's a good option to get going with a new system for such a low income stock. I just wanted to ask the senator about the charges she mentioned because I feel that they were written off the table because they would move on the inside. Now I don't know if there's a good way to go, but I don't think that's why we're here in the discussion, even though I'm afraid to go with it, if there's any long-term limits to flying, i.e. If X's a long flight, we'll charge. As a result, the domestic flight may escape. So, of course, it is also a question: Can we define the international flight as a public transportation, and is that an exception? The minister shakes his head. At least I'm not convinced. I don't think she's given any evidence within the council that it is, except, "It's not possible. ' There's nothing more to talk about. Another thing I'd like to introduce is the definition of tourism. Here is a bill, which is also on the program today, where a tourist location is defined. I'm asking why. A senator will agree with me that neither will it clearly show what it means to define a place that attracts tourists because of his nature and history. Here, for example, it is that if certain tourist attractions were defined there, then the whole community would be a tourist resort - and what? So I'd think if you came into a rural society and there's some particular area you'd like to see, would you have to pay a certain amount of money before you go into the country? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Everything's opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u94	A respectable president. I agree with that. A senator told me that I feel very vague about the wide range in this bill and that there is a great lack of definition. What about, as mentioned here, the Country Society of Hornand? What about areas like the Horn Coasts, for example, we're going to sell into the Horn Coasts where freedom of movement has continued until now, etc.? I also agree with the senator that it might be a way that I feel would be worth considering how we define flying in Iceland. In effect, the domestic flight is public transportation, as is now being done in our transport, and I'm not talking about the West, so I'm now referring to the prohibition here on transport. [[It's been made up of: And in a transport program.]] - Yeah. Of course, there are some methods and designs. The Senator correctly mentioned a definition of domestic flight, some sort of long definition, and so forth. I'll agree with that. I feel that there is a responsibility to set such established legislation that breaks down the silver cord I was talking about in the image of our Icelanders. It is so great a break in princely mind that it is as unattractive as taking the risk of throwing so many other things into confusion and definitions that must be written and built on to tear and improve a garment that was originally badly tailored.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u95	A respectable president. The bill on natural passes is not made out of nothing. The attendance of tourists, Icelandic and foreign, has increased to such an extent that natural bulbs in the country have increased so much in the past decade that something has been left to the fore. Now it is time for nature to face some of the world's most popular challenges despite special measures to cope with the agony, so to speak. These spheres of nature are owned either by private members or by state. It is therefore a joy to see that a minister has made the matter as firm as the follow-up that this bill shows. I must tell you, I also enjoy the way a minister has gone through the country and introduced this bill, or his plan to make it available here, and he is likely to hear various views on his journeys. V.E.G. A minister here proposes a single solution by selling access to certain tourist attractions to everyone he wants. On this point, some may not seem to agree, but I must say that such opposition is supported by a variety of arguments, and it is a sense of abuse or even logicalness. For this reason, I would like to mention a travel - service interest organization that has, of course, been concerned. I specifically state, though I shouldn't have to do so, that I believe it is very important to get the position of those most familiar with the relevant categories and, of course, that is also appropriate in this matter. I have to say that I have felt the reaction of those whom men might have most likely looked at, the interests of tourism, pretty amazing, and unfortunately I have to say that they are unfaithful. I have felt that their opposition and suggestions give evidence of a random stand and give evidence of who is in charge there at any given time. The organization set aside time for a bedside fee. At some point, it was a view that the so - called coming charges were more desirable than the host's fee and even the arrangement laid down here. It's been claimed to be taxation on nature fans, and it can be said, it can be said. I believe, however, to say that this is against the only taxation on natural resources. I take, for example, the cost of gasoline that has to be paid for, the amount of fuel being taxed in this area. Of course it's taxation on travel within the country. Visiting Dimuborgs is a big decision for a family in Reykjavík, a big decision, and this is especially due to taxation, travel costs. I'd also like to point out that remuneration of natural bulbs or certain tourist attractions has been permitted for many years under certain laws. I'll take as an example the law on Lake Earth. It has the authority to obtain, not merely as a currency for services granted, but as a premium that allows access to the area. And speaking of Lakehjörk National Park, the operation of that park costs four people a family in Iceland 4 of you. K. every year. The U.S. National Law on Tingval Park is also a means of bankruptcy. True, this is only because of a privilege of service. It's actually done, there's a bill for a tent area there, where there's a service center that will probably bring in the national park, and I don't know it. There's no need to discuss this matter as if it's a great novel. I expected a further discussion with those who have declared opposition to this matter of desirable means, suggestions to another arrangement. But that has not been to say hello, I feel that despite the fact that this matter, as we have seen, has been under consideration for the past two years and, of course, much longer. This discussion is not surprising. I'm not going to make the position of other people a subject. Rather, I'm going to describe my position because I personally have doubts about this matter for some of the reasons I'm going to review. It's especially that I find that there is a lack of flexibility in the proposed system. As a result, I fear that this will not lead to the most practical solution to travel. I'll mention that in 1st paragraph. The bill is taken up to the objective of the law to protect Iceland's nature by necessary structure, maintenance and protection of tourism. I wondered if this arrangement will get the point of protecting the tourist resort in that it's a kind of ◯in' for the rest of the way. A price that provides access to all tourist attractions is suggested throughout the year. However, we know that tourist attractions vary, and the amount of access we spend each year varies. It makes me feel that there's a double energy, maybe there's a way to figure it out. I also feel that the so - called resorts, not defined in the bill, are referred to as a list of places to be held out, updated and accessible, and that these places should be listed in the state, as well as places owned by a private resident who is offered to participate in this arrangement. I think this is unfortunate, not to speak strongly, in all respects of the state's places. It is always mentioned here that people know the places in which these places are. Now it may be that I don't see better in geography than that, but I don't know which 10 to12 places that are exactly what these places are. So I thought it would be better if it was clear. Men have talked about their travelers and their income and have, as I entered the beginning of my talk, called the host's fee a full - time job in order to keep tourist attractions in place. In fact, I've always wondered why you haven't started putting full value extra tax in travel service. Travel service has been administrated for decades with all kinds of extramaritals that no man can quickly throw away. Recently, a worthwhile tax was placed at a lower level in hotel attendance. I thought that the hotel service would not immediately go to the top, so they are not fully new, income opportunities for foreign tourists, if that is the case. However, I would like to point out to them what are the consumer taxes here that foreign tourists come down here and buy lopeys and what else and get their worth tax back from them. However, the financial cost has been heavy, especially for small companies in tourism. When laid short notice, a small boarding home and small company in tourism had to start investing especially in some computer systems. It is technically difficult for smaller parties and extremely vulnerable, not to mention how many exits there are from the host's fee. I find the fee quite strange, for men to suggest that they bring in a return fee, the same ones who see things in front of their way that the Icelanders have to pay for looking and using the samples of nature bulbs, the same proposals for a return fee, that a man who goes off on summer vacations or a business trip has to pay a special access to come to the country. I just don't think that's a good idea. Opponents of this bill tend to view company in tourism as some sort of profit-funding company, a profit machine. It is a bit spoken of as if the tourism service were waiting to pay off tourists at well - trained tourist attractions. However, the development of tourism does not result in reimbursement. Also, landowners, who have the advantage of their interesting tourist attractions, would rather request services, service, and services, and thus earn money from tourists. That's a good thing. I fear that this, this natural right, will slightly reduce this trend, i.e. that private candidates may be allowed to drive their anger into service, but rather almost with their hands out after the next distribution from the natural pass fund. And fine that means the fund itself, in my opinion, is too much media control. Therefore, I have wanted to maintain that deposit by tourists in popular tourist attractions is possible in a number of ways other than directly paid for entrances on the view platform. I have felt that it was rather lacking than the fact that services, restaurants, guidance on the territory, and other means of building in tourist areas are being offered. However, I have a clear understanding that this bill has been presented. I think it was only a matter of time before a procedure like this would be used because it is, and I think all of us agree on, an urgent need to consider the matter. I look forward to further discussions about the process, and if people disagree with this route, which leads to them, practical ways that are not considered as burdensome or too directed or too complex. If there are other solutions, of course, there is a way to bring them sooner than later.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u96	A respectable president. I want to pray. 1st. Reykv.. For example, talk more clearly about whether she supports the proposed proposal or whether it is out of the question. Hv. A senator has developed a reputation for speaking to the views of liberalism, and at first I would have thought that the viewpoint of the individual freedom must be avoided because the senator could support the free movement of the government over the exclusive rights of the country and much less that the State had some kind of tax saved by the free movement of men, as is expected here. I'd especially like to ask why. Senator on the surveillance show. The minister said this morning that we knew this operation, it would be like the parking ticket guards in the mail number right now. Councilman, Brooklyn, Reykjavík. Got it. A senator's idea of exporting the parking ticket price from P.P. 101 and then having all his comfy foundations? Is that in harmony with the view? A senator of liberalism that there should be state patrols to monitor the movement of individuals through the nature of the country and try to meet them at work at the nature of the country? And what does that count? A senator who is to be treated with an individual who, for one, refuses to pay this fee, as one of our nice colleagues, senator, has already declared that he will? Does the senator think that it is possible to deprive people of their property for not accepting this government's payment, or how does the senator feel that he is not guilty in the bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u97	A respectable president. The law says how you cannot present the so - called natural passes. There's a fine. It's legal. It is not difficult to enforce, and the senator now understands what is meant by a legal fine. There's no new word in this law. In terms of the recommendation and whether this will cause them to shrink to 101, we should why. A senator, of course, may be celebrating, but that may not be a greeting. But I have kept in mind many tourist attractions where they come to park their cars and take a walk: Why aren't they set up posts there? Why are only parking places and even whole buses in the middle of town for hours? I don't see any resistance, so, of course, there's a checkup, and there's no need for anyone to be suspicious of it. This is a law-enforcement here. I have to say, I think it's most unusual when it's cool. Congress officials state that they are not going to obey the law. What could I say, who has fought here against all the last government tax gains, the gas tax I've talked about here many times? Should I stop paying these taxes? Of course, talking like that is not something that would be appropriate for a senator. As far as my liberalism is concerned, I know why. A senator that I believe the right of property gives authority to the owner of the earth at any given time to access his country as he pleases. The Kingdom is no exception. The government can do this, there can be other ways, as I have noted, but it is only natural that the owners of the earth have custody of their possessions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u98	A respectable president. First, I want to say the word with the question. Senator I think it's entirely possible to charge for the use of parking areas beyond 101. But he knows why. A senator's example shows that any nation's state is sent out by patrol to see if the citizens of that country look at nature, some kind of natural patrol that can then, if the guilt is not paid, take away their individual property because of the government's tax charges on the free movement of public property and natural operas? Is it true that people have gone so far in their affairs as well as in restricting the free movement of individuals to their land?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u99	A respectable president. If the person who cannot present natural passes where he is required to have a natural pass and if the same has no more 15 points. K. In pure possessions, yes, he shall be without property, according to these things. The bill expects 15 of you. K. It's like a traffic fracture or a considerably lower guilt, I think, than most traffic violations. For example from other countries, in the United States Yosemite Valley and Grand Canyon, there's a fee to pay for that park. I have personally been in a garden, not even in a garden, but on a highway in Argentina, where I was charged with access to a cave inspection. Guards with such authority seemed to be public employees. I don't think this is surprising because it is widely known throughout the world to charge access to natural bulbs owned by the state and private parties.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u100	V.E.G. President. I hear what I'm talking about. Sigríður Andersen disagrees with us when it comes to the public court and its value to us who live in this country. Hv. According to one U.S. senator, it is unable to point to these 10◯12 resorts at the highest level of travel. Minister says we should be under the obligation of the natural pass. I have to agree, too, that I don't completely figure out which of these places are. That's the right thing to say to me. Because the public court doesn't matter, does a senator think it's almost secondary, and that's why it's all right to collect a price for the natural pass as it should be done according to this bill? I think it's an understanding of what it's like. Senators are talking about in this matter as a basic part of the discussion that follows, so we're here to talk about the same thing. I'd like to pray. A senator about going over this a little bit better. Does the public rights matter, his long story, or are we willing to throw him out of the window to go to these collections?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u101	A respectable president. I'm not sure what. A senator and I disagree on anything in this matter, it's only yet to be revealed. In terms of the public court, however, it is quite clear that he is not being walked in any way. V.E.G. In his background, a minister stated that this did not impair the right to be beaten, to kneel, and to what is now done on other people's lands, or in foreign lands. This bill is not being interrupted. I'm in favor of the public rights. I agree that there are times when people can travel across a land without destroying anything, as they have been, and no one has ever made a mistake about it in this country. The Universal Court, on the other hand, has been impaired. For nature's reasons, this has had to be done. There have been rains in many places, and popular tourist attractions have been closed for longer or shorter periods of time to protect nature. This bill does not include any deterioration in public rights. As I mentioned in my case, I believe that it is necessary to clearly determine which places to fall under this natural pass in law, that it is not just on some list of some institution in town. I thought there was more to it than that. I'm not going to state at this point whether I feel that I need some sort of administrative duty that would speak more strongly about it, but I think in any way that leads to the idea of determining which places these are in the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u102	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for these answers. I think it's perfectly clear that we look at the public rights a little different and clearly interpret it in a different way. My understanding is that the public rights are really supposed to reach the whole country. True, there are certain limitations in national parks. I think there's another kind of thing here. There's another thing I want to do. The senator left. Away from any disagreement on public rights, I agree with what was presented. A senator of doubts as to whether this bill would produce the desired results for the protection or development of tourism. Therefore, I would like to ask the senator: " How well do you think this collectee will be doing in a pragmatic way? [[The president calls.]] Will we succeed in this bill getting money to build the wood that I think we will agree on having to do? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u103	A respectable president. I don't understand what's going on. A senator is leaving. There's nothing in her case or in my opinion that says we don't agree about the public rights and their status here on land in the past or in the future. Up to once, boy. A senator here asks how this can contribute to... [[Up front.]] How?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u104	Probably...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u105	- how likely this arrangement will be to provide protection and maintenance at tourist attractions. I think that collecting these natural passes will go very well because all foreigners are expected to buy it. I assume that foreign tourists who come here - all I know is that they are even more law - abiding than they are. Councilmen here spoke and expressed in advance that they are not going to obey the law. No foreign person is found to be free to access natural bulbs, i.e. Those who plan on such trips, so I'm not worried about anything except that they're gonna buy a pass like that. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u106	Mr. President. Hv. A senator has been known to have his mouth filled with freedom, and I have often agreed on that. Therefore, I feel that it is rather coldly talking about the loss of freedom that is, of course, part of the bill. It's not possible before that. A senator argues that some tourist attractions have been temporarily shut down, and freedom has been impaired. It refers to a total failure, a need for humans, to enjoy nature, to pay for it. I completely disagree with that attitude. Senator. Otherwise, and perhaps surprise, I agree with many things as well as with others. A senator said. For example, I agree with the criticism that I felt was quite sharp on the bill. Hv. Among other things, a senator pointed out that the key things are not clear. What does that mean? A senator when a key piece is unclear? We're gonna call it handback work, but I'm not asking a thing. A senator to agree with me on that. Hv. A member of the body has also repeatedly spoken about the need for self - attention when discussing professional equipment. Hv. A senator here asked one other member of the council: "Who will you be seeking in return? Then you must make a policy? What about listening to professional life? What about listening to the article under this issue? She's got a clear policy on this. She wants to make this money a major part of her life. I think it's quite possible, and I've had reasons why somebody else has. Senator. Hv. A senator said it was a quiet one. This can be corrected, that can be done. Likewise, I agree with her that it is likely that there is a price to be paid for services and directs at tourist attractions, such as. Access room access, parking space access. I'm prepared to accept that. But otherwise, I can't help but see that there's a decrease in the public rights, and I thought it was ironic. A senator saying, "Well, then you will only be imprisoned. " [[The president calls.]] It may well be that foreign tourists will be extremely law - abiding in these matters. [[The president calls.]] But I think there will be thousands of Icelanders who will not abide by this, because they see it as a sacred right which has been present since the conquest of the land. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u107	A respectable president. I think we're gonna do what. A senator may disagree on the basics of this matter, which is who should pay for the maintenance and construction of tourist attractions. Who are to do this? Should Icelandic taxpayers do that, or should they, all as one, all of them taxpayers and also those who never go and enjoy, pay for 1 million tourists, 2 million tourists, the foreigners who come here? It's a point of view. Some of them what? Senators have this view. [[Up front.]] I don't agree with that. Celestial places, Gold Falls and Geys, would not be available, without access to structure there. There would be no official access. It would have been shut in the same way as it's closed when it rains in the Dark Citys. It would be the same bioavailability there -- nothing. So this is a question of whether humans wish to have access or no access to these sites, if humans at any other level want to protect nature. Someone may well think about having natural nature so much that it should develop through man's efforts, and it can submerge the environment around waterfalls and other factors. Of course, that's a view. However, I believe that in order to make peace with such a case, it needs to be thought so that it is possible for tourists to be available throughout the year for everyone. This will be the only way for civilians to go to these places, and it will not be kept in the pockets of taxpayers, who, outside of it, do not have the resources to carry these costs. Icelandic taxpayers do not have the resources to carry this cost.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u108	Mr. President. Hv. A senator asked: "Who will pay? The answer is in her talk earlier. Hv. A senator thus came up with fine ideas that could be worked out, which included the article, for example. paying it through a merit tax. I understood why. A member of the council felt that this article, which is certainly not a feathered young person, but that a bird with flying feathers and taken off the flight, would match any future professional tax pay. That's a point, that's one way. It's a far better way than the one that's gone. What matters, I think, is that we listen to the industry. What does she want? At least we know what she doesn't want. She doesn't want a backup case. Minister. She wants a place to go where the balance is. When I'm at the highest. In his speech this morning, a minister said that 17 people had spoken against SAF's declaration at the time, and she was right. [[The president calls.]] But they did not want to raise the pass. They wanted to record a coming fee. But I agree with that. A senator on that subject too.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u109	A respectable president. The profession, what does the industry want? I'm just asking, what do the pros want? She has circled to the right and to the left of that subject. She has mentioned a lodge fee, and she has mentioned a coming fee; she has mentioned everything that does not turn over to her at that very moment when she calls it. Unfortunately, that's the way it is. Of course no one wants to pay for it. Of course the bus drivers don't want to pay the access, of course, the hotels don't want to pay the floor fee, of course the airlines don't want to pay the coming fee. Of course it is. The only way to solve this problem, without having to have some technical or legal processing thing, is to pay for it. There's nothing more complicated. It would have to be a natural price to multiply. They named 100 bucks. Of course, there's a price to be multiplied if it should be worth it. It's men who come here and spend the night in Reykjavík, 101. It lies on the Icelanders, the whole country, the people who come here to Reykjavík and stay at hotels. Is it supposed to pay for this? In fact, this is not a perfunctory introduction to this discussion to consider the cost of one industry. [[The president calls.]] Instead, ask: What does the entire industry want?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u110	President. I'd like to begin by saying that I'm not in favor of this route, I'm not in favor of a natural pass. I don't approve of instant solutions or solutions that include higher overnight fees or return fees or something like that. On the other hand, I would like to use the valuables we get because of the increase in the number of tourists in our common fund and the remnant of income stocks in the construction of tourist areas. Actually, I don't understand why it has not been necessary to reform and build up in tourist places, compared with the growing number of tourists that have come here, and with the increase, we have received a lot of money in our food farms, our common fund. I'm warning you not to make another special tax, because it's just a tax and nothing else, and let's just call things the right names. It's a natural tax that surprises me that the Independence Party should suggest. I don't think there's anything wrong with the highest standards at all. Minister to accept a change to the bill, which would be submitted to another route. This other route is by far the most simple, and I know that e.g. The Independence Party is very much in favor of a simple tax system, so I think it's very strange that the Independence Party contributes. This is not in harmony with the basic policy of the Independence Party. That is why I was surprised when I was given stress to go this way, despite the fact that this was not the way that came down in a poll conducted at the main interest stake, a partner in a travel - service event. This was to remind me of either the second or the last advantage of those who were selected for that poll. I'm very personally in favor of simple ones, for example. on the IRS, and that's Piratar in general. Therefore, we would like to encourage the Independence Party to reconsider their stand on this matter. There is also another thing that I find very strange in this suggestion, and it has not been possible to explain to me or to others who here live what the natural pass should be done. It was said that there should be a natural price, and I don't think it's hard to believe that we who have fought for privacy, including the bad. paritaprevir Pétur H. Blöndalur, let's face the fact that our immunity will be broken by some party having to go through green suspects to track where we're going in the country. Then they do fines. Should it be so that people can be made without property if they refuse to pay to experience what our forefathers have fought for and, probably, a case that is the public court? Should people lose their house because they are not involved in this act, this new tax from independence? There's another thing I find a little interesting about this whole thing, but it seems that there's not even more to it at the Council. What you experience, if I'm just being honest, is that it's a perfunctory, you find it, because it's gone very far into the Ministry. You can feel the top. Minister doesn't necessarily have the heart on this one, it's not a fight. I'm pretty good at what I'm doing. A senator and a chief. Ministers after spending almost six years at the General Assembly with the senator, and I know when the senator will have a fight. It's obviously not one of those things, it's obvious. So there's a half mind on this, and I think maybe we shouldn't worry too much, but I trust that the committee that's going to be involved in this discussion will make the necessary changes to the bill needed. Perhaps this simply will get out of the way and die on a committee such as many of the disintegrations recommended here, some cases being allowed to die of a certain euthanasia on committees. I think it would be most successful to have this kind of euthanasia, because the point is that no one I know can say it to me from the heart that he is in favor because we have to pay to enjoy nature. I often go to the Þingalund, I take the mountain back to the Þingway, the long walk, which is not the tourist trail. Will there be any guards when you get up on the path? They've built a path down there when you've walked a little bit, and I often go there and take my son with me. Then we need to be careful not to get up on the path like a dog. paritaprevir Valgerður Bjarnadóttir pointed out? I don't know how to do this, I don't understand. Guards in every path in the land of nature watch that no one is walking along the paths without paying for it? I think this is the worst way. I have to admit that when they were talking about the natural rights, I'd look into the matter and see if there was any sense in this. And as you heard more about what it was impossible to do this without simply breaking the basic feeling of living in Iceland, on the fundamental human rights of being able to go out into nature and be in peace, get to be a part of that nature without having to worry that someone would bring a spray or something, I was convinced that this was a bad way. I don't know how they're gonna do this. Will they have a scan? How to do this, they'll have a scan to check this out, and they'll be watching you? Yes, Birgitta went to the Þingles, and then she went out to Snæfells, and returned to Algergan, and then she went here and there. What will it be like? And what if people refuse to participate in this nonsense? I'd really like to know, I can see that there are some members of the Independence Party who have asked to answer me, and I'd really appreciate it if they could answer that. For example, I'm not going to be a part of this, I'm just not going to be a part of this nonsense, and I know that a lot of other Icelanders aren't going to be involved in this nonsense. And if laws are so wicked that they offend the nation's chief majority, there is nothing to say that its members, or people, are to follow them. If a broken law were made, it would undermine the credibility of law laws in the land, it's clear. And I'm surprised to learn that the conservatives approve. I agree with the discussion this has shown that it is tragic that the resource fund has not been set up here. But you can learn from past mistakes and create such a fund, e.g. by limiting the stock of income that comes through the cost of a great increase in tourists. I agree that this has been a lack of motivation for building in tourist areas, that I have a profound concern for it, and this is shameful, and I am ashamed of the situation. I've met a lot of people who come to the country, and you're trying to lead them to something other than these most important places, because they're just gone so they don't have a demand. I agree with what was presented in the Sermon on the Mount. paritaprevir Rósa Björk Bynjólfsdóttir that they lack a serious clear view of where we are headed in this suit. There have been some comments that it would be best to get only rich tourists who spend a lot of money in certain places. But it is often forgotten that vast numbers of tourists come to Reykjavík only, come to music parties, and study the culture of the country, and just stop for a while. They also bring money in our common funds. How can it be justified to take money from every Icelandic country, which is not more than 1 billion, according to the above, 1 billion? And how much will this project cost? How much is this gonna cost? Has that been calculated? How many guards are to be paid? Where are they supposed to be? I groveled back there at the present time, and at the same time, I was groveling back and forth, thinking of Jónas Hallgrímsson, who was too far to write down everything, so I took the conclusion. And I think the lowdown of the poem is quite amusing, where it might end. The land is beautiful and free, and the whiteness of the scales is lofty. The sky is honour and blue. The sea is shining bright. And it came to pass in a fire, where the river Oxari is yet come forth, And into the plains of Alvergah, the council is gone. [...] Oh, you youth and you adult children of Iceland! It's how the fathers are forgotten and lost! We are briefly in this great stream of time. Let us not make decisions that will affect the future of our country that there will be a price for something previously free to enjoy. No one owns nature, not me, not you, no one. We are to protect her, we are to protect her, and we can do so by digging into our common fund, which has grown much because many want to come and visit us, enjoying ourselves and nature, our culture. I think we should stop seeing these good people who come here for a visit with a dollar mark in their eyes. Let's just take it easy, let's use it for a little bit, let's do it simple. Let us consider what people who give of themselves to us, and we can give them of us. By all means, however, the good strategy called on KISS, by permission of the President, you will have to forgive: 'Keep it simple, stapid. I don't think it's a complicated phase that's unnecessary. I won't support the bill. I wish for the cooperation of the entire council to save the highest. A minister from the difficult situation of trying to push a case through which it is evident that the minister is not very interested in becoming a reality.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u111	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Our problem is that we don't have money to run the health system, there is no need for money. [[Up front.]] Our problem is that the state funds status is very bad, we're paying a lot of interest from a government fund, that's not how money can be obtained anywhere. It is natural for me to feel that those who enjoy nature's resources for it. Whatever it is. A senator said about the project, I don't understand it properly. He pays, if he goes into the Þingalde, it's no question whether he uses the tracks or not. However, the reward is used for building up steps. That is the goal behind it. The fact that people lose their house, that's where I think it's cool. A senator is now a bit of a fantasizer. You have to pay $1,500. which lasts three years, 500 bucks. every year. [[The president calls.]] I don't think anyone's gonna lose their house for that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u112	President. I wasn't talking about the price, but I was talking about it if people refuse to pay that price and get a ticket, if it could multiply as if sometimes happened with fines if people don't pay in parking lots. It has happened that people have lost a car if they don't pay. It might also lose a house if it doesn't pay. Then I'm not talking about the price itself, but if people refuse to participate in this insane act. I also feel that there is a little simplicity with the senator when he says there is no money in the state fund. There's been a wealth of money in the state because of increased tourism currents here, why isn't there any of them used to build up tourist spots? I don't think I can understand that. Is the senator in favor of the radio charge? I'd like to hear it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u113	Mr. President. If the citizens of this country refuse to comply, there are certain taxes I don't really like very much. I can imagine refusing to pay them. I just don't do it because we have laws to do it. I don't understand what's in it. Congress officials who say over and over again that people are not going to obey the law. We're here to make laws, i.e. More of the Generals. I just think it's very serious when they say people aren't supposed to do the law. If they don't have this pass, they'll pay 15 yards. K. Besides, it's not myth, it's not that you go to a grocery store to shop in or buy anything at all... [[Up front.]] I don't see that any man should be rolled out of his house. I think this is the worst kind of panic propaganda and there's been some kind of nonsense going on, I'd say, Mr. President, 500 bucks. In a year it is suddenly 15 You. K. and they lose their house.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u114	President. No, no, it's like that, of course. A senator has never said anything stupid in this chamber. I will be glad to be a fool, that would be a great honor to me. What I'm talking about is that it can happen that people don't buy this natural pass and they might be in the position of getting a ticket, 15 of you. K. That's a lot of money for some people, such as those with some 130 you've got. K. each month, the income may pay the rent of 130. I just want a clear answer to this question: If you find yourself in that position to get a ticket, doesn't it multiply like other fines? Not to be added to the tow, costs to collect, etc.? Is that possible? I'm just asking. I'd love to know how much this amount would be if she went into Intrum or Incasso or what they'd call this collect company. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But the senator could not answer that question.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u115	Mr. President. Most members of the Independence Party, though not all, usually take sides with their wealth. We've seen it here today in this matter that the words of freedom seem to be nothing more than chaff, there's no core in them. I think it's a little valuable to hear two members of the Independence Party today come into this public chair saying that there'll be no problem, even if there's gonna be a movement of thousands of people who, on the basis of principle, do not want to pay the fine, then they'll be taken off the house, it's just a matter of care. Two members of the Independence Party have said this. I think it's awful. I agree with most of the things I had. A senator said. She referred to the future and said: "We must try to improve our status of public rights. Then I'll ask why. A senator who is now my expert in the Constitution: Is it not the only way to prevent such a search to play the part in a constitution?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u116	President. I appreciate the question. I think it's perfectly clear that the only way to defend the public court is to slap him into a constitution. I think it's extremely important. There are things you watch and panic over the fact that the Constitution has not yet been guaranteed, such as. Our common resources, despite the fact that much more of the public has been calling for it. I think it might be suggested that when the Constitution's resource directives are addressed, it will be pulled away and I hope it will be handled by the Board of Directors. I also find that somehow so strange that the Independence Party of all classes should want more taxes. Was it not difficult to swallow the food tax?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u117	Mr. President. In this discussion, the question is, Where to take the money to build up the tourist resort? Pay those that enjoy. I'd like to think about one thing, I'm not saying it's my attitude, but it's worth one Mass to wonder about. Millions of tourists arrive in Iceland, with the value of an increase in the number of 50,000 people around the country. The men and women who come here spend a lot of money and raise their rolls in a lot of sectors. In recent years, for example, they have made a big difference in the development of the milk industry. And I wondered, " Is it really necessary, and is it really normal to go specifically to charge them for coming to the land and enjoying nature and, at the same time, taking the rest of us who live here and have done it from time to time? ' I'm not quite sure it's a fully albino howl. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: How does she want to approach this lack of money in order to build up the tourist resort? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u118	President. I suggested that we use some of the valuable items that have come in because of the growth of tourists. Now that the present government has not had much trouble taking on the national tax money, when it comes to bringing 80 billion into the unknown, because now, as many fear, there is a great chance of doing so, or it could happen, justice is under way, and if the state loses a case, who is going to pay the 80 billion? We're talking about 1 billion that will be much more expensive because it's an animal, it's unacceptable, and it's wrong in all places. It's wrong that we can't travel around our country without paying for it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u119	A respectable president. I didn't think any of that was necessary. A senator is implicated in some madness. Of course, it is not, as we know, any lunatics on the other side. General. On the other hand, there is a case of disintegration and detoxification as a matter of course. The senator at the government stand eats up after others, uproots about the surveillance of the natural rights system. I know what you're doing. For example, a member of the council how to monitor the city by making rapid or testimonials in the city? Is there any reason to believe that there is another type of surveillance? The factors I mention are sometimes directly monitored, sometimes not. Sometimes a man escapes guilt. But everyone seeks to enforce the rules, all of them. Only stiff - necked criminals give out preconceived claims that they are not going to obey the rules and laws. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I know what you're doing. A senator's manner of handling this surveillance?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u120	President. Of course, I know what this surveillance is like. So it is that the city goes to places to see if people have been in positions too long. How many parking guards are in this city, we know why. A senator? What is their annual pay? I know what you're doing. A senator? How many police are on the patrol to drive around the country? What is their pay? Does the senator know? I'd really like to get answers to that now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u121	A respectable president. Although I'm a deputy here and I'm stopping soon, I know that even if I'm not opposed. I know, of course, that there's a cost to all surveillance, so it's not gonna be any different in this case. However, it has been tried to do something suspicious, can't be observed, it is technically impossible to monitor if you come to some area and walk on footpaths. Of course it's not like that, and it knows why. Senator I'd like to mention, though, that I liked that tip. Of course, some tourists come here to experience culture, cooking, and other things and never go to nature. Can we not agree, then, that it is in the highest natural sense that these tourists do not have to buy access to natural habitats or share in maintaining structure in natural areas? Well, maybe. A senator would also agree with me that I am happy that in this bill, one tax release is being announced? There's something, and that's why I'm especially happy, and there's a decommission on the bedside fee. Can't we agree on that, then? Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u122	President. I find it shocking not to get proper answers to the high cost of observation. I think it's very pathetic. I don't think it's been further developed yet before this happens to the council. I don't think it's a great pleasure to have your host tax taken off, I'm not really into it for being decommissioned. I think it's normal, so I say once again, that we're creating a limited set of budgets for building the natural spheres of the country, for the Icelanders, for those who live here and have already paid for this with their taxes. This is one of the things I like about paying taxes. Unfortunately, though, my taxes are not used. I want my taxes protected. But as long as we have money, we don't have anything to say about how the money's being spent, things go like this, some kind of pass-of-the-concert is being served here, in a hurry.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u123	V.E.G. President. I agree with you. paritaprevir Birgitta daughter, Jónsdóttir, says that this is a very difficult way to get money to protect tourist attractions. In fact, there is a fundamental reason for opposing this natural rights bill. If we look past it and use the bill to try to understand what else is going on here, it will show that there is no overall government policy at any time. So I'd like to ask you why. A senator: Is there not a chance that if we get on this path, we will soon be able to move from our ass without being in a place where we need the baby wherever we are, for there's something going on everywhere? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u124	President. What worries me, and I thank you for this counter, as with so many other things that come in here in the Council, is that there is no total thought, complete change, and a clearer view. This is a response to conditions now, but not to the future. The future is just not being thought of, and it is very common in the legal process. That's why I have to say that my belief in law has completely diminished after I've seen it, that's just the way it is, if I'm to be perfectly honest. To suggest that we have to walk around with special natural conditions, I feel very uncomfortable. It bothers me, and I know it disturbs a lot of other people. It's not just some natural pass, it's about a certain feeling about how you can get around your country, and I know that a lot of people are gonna get hurt. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u125	V.E.G. President. Yeah, I want to say it again with a what. A senator, a man gets it done. It's against all the things you've grown up with, what it's like to live in a country with abundant nature that you always enjoy every day. This is where I think it's a man's right. Therefore, in my second breath, I want to agree with what appeared in the exchange of words. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir. paritaprevir I'm sorry about Skarphéðinsson's son that he's probably the only way to see the constitution right from the public to enjoy nature. I think that's where this needs to come in.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u126	President. That's right, and I think it would be very successful if the committee involved in this case suggests that, for I am convinced that this case will not pass through the council. I just can't believe it's going through the council. We need to be very careful because strange things often pass through the council that people don't know how to get through. I'm more calm after I've noticed that it's the best I can do. It seems that the Minister of Industrial Affairs has no enthusiasm for this case. I know the Minister is very close when it comes to something that burns on it. It's not one of those things. So the committee must have pretty free hands to offer suggestions that are more acceptable to the national soul of the Icelanders.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u127	Mr. President. There is a convergence in this discussion, and it has been said for the past few years that Iceland and I have not been able to escape, and earlier, we would have made significant investments in the interiors of tourism, especially in caring for nature and protecting it in places that have become very multilingual. In fact, we have been greatly drawn back there, and in recent years our ability to build up in this area has been greatly exceeded by the rapid and rapid growth of tourists. However, during the last term at the same time, a major market campaign was started with the tourism, particularly after the Eyjafjordin eruption in the spring of 2010, to set up income stocks and/or to place funds in this investment, and to realize that if the expectations for major tourists were to move after that, it would be necessary to do so. Now, all of this has been so adventurous and well, thanks to many of them, but the increase is a fairy tale year after year, and the simple thing about the rise of tourism has been crucial to the nation in tearing up our economic failures. There, the large growth of tourism is an important factor, e.g. in recent years, however, the level of trade is not inferior to the fact that the service balance has turned much for the better and is positive now in most quarters that are different from that of the past. In fact, it is the service equation that now maintains the currency and the commercial balance more than the good balances are, unfortunately, close to zero. It was simply a bet on the tourism service, as it were many other articles that were available or that had the possibility of rapid growth, rapid growth, not accepting natural limitations, eating or so, would not take many years to build up each unit. Everything's been going along and giving up. Of course, though, the transport services have become increasingly difficult to provide for the natural limitations. We cannot just injected tourists indefinitely and increase their numbers here every year without responding. It ends in a disaster. Hence, in an investment plan of the former government, it was decided to put considerable money into it and to start with from a government fund until some income stock was starting to give enough of it to keep such investments. The module was to put 750 million, if I recall correctly, three years in a row from the state fund of tourism and in national parks and a peaceful area as part of that investment plan. I'd like to say that in all this discussion that is fraught with how it is better to collect these charges and taxes from the article that it has become a bit of an interesting thought if it has become a prohibition to simply use a common taxpayer to some extent, at least temporarily, on this mission. Is it absolutely forbidden to discuss the possibility of at least In part, the investment in the infrastructure of the government funds, of public revenues in a number of years, of one of the largest growths in Icelandic employment life and the largest currency source of the nation's article? Is it absolutely forbidden to look after the growth of the article and invest in it? I don't think it is, but still its sponsor, and I believe it's a natural view to look for ways to include this kind of investment from the article that makes access to the resource, i.e. Iceland's nature. It is the natural approach, and even the using of government funds is comparable to what we would like many of us to want the sea route to provide access to their resources, the energy sector for access to the energy resource, etc. Sadly, the present government has been extremely divided in this regard. I feel sad because I care about this group of subjects, and I'm worried about the situation. But it was with this as well as the fact that the government considered it a very special interest to throw away everything the previous government had done, including the investment programme and its objects of tourism, national parks, and peace - related areas, and the building of destinations in individual places such as a cemetery, or where it was now. As a result, there has been a trepidation and the perennial situation for the past two years. Two summers are partly wasted. The government goes into the fall of 2013 into budgets and cuts out the tourist position under trog, puttings half anon into the budget in 2014. Then there's a natural thing to realize that it can't be done, there's no natural pass coming, and there's a bunch of extra cash in the fund to 400 million or who it was. What does the government do this fall, Mr. President? She repeats the game, cuts out the tourist budget at the trog and puts it empty into the 2015 budget. What are we going to do in spring? You're just gonna let all the projects go down this summer? It's a bit seasonal, and you need money in structure and investments, which, of course, need to be kept at least in charge over the spring, the summer and autumn months, but, of course, not everything. It may be designed and prepared and done at all times of the year, but some of the materials have to be done in the above months. I'm not afraid to say that the government is highly responsible by this march in the precarious situation that began to develop when various members of the tourism agency, who had placed hopes of financing from a tourist position, gave up the wait and jumped into their own remuneration because they didn't see anything ahead of when these great delinquencys appeared in the budget. It's impossible, it's intolerable, if there's a price gate and a shed here and there by a natural pulse where all the private people start charging in. That would be the worst result of everything possible. That is why this situation needs to be resolved, and there are a number of ways and really better than the one suggested here. This idea of evolution is not working for a number of reasons at all. First of all, I'm ideologically opposed to this pricey thought of the nature of this country. Second of all, it doesn't make sense to the public court. It's just that way. It is absolutely futile to intend to disseminate individuals in this currency, therefore Icelanders, drills, and child - born citizens here, when they travel through their country. It doesn't make sense. It would not agree with the public court and certainly be tried, of course. People have felt that it was shocking to say that they are not going to pay that price. Of course, I would put it to the test if someone was going to charge me for a natural pass if, for example, I was to walk cool across the Þinglei. Let's say I just pick myself up and walk the old King's Way over Mosfellhö, down the Almangah, up to Vellina, into the Turtle - is somebody going to stop me and charge me? For what? I only refer to my age - old right as an Icelandic to pass through my country, to do no business with any man, and to walk the ancient streets, as shown in the book of John, that roads should lie as if ancient roads were lying. No one's got anything to do with me in such an act. Then I come to another one that's natural this bill. With all due respect, Mr. President, it's such an overreaching piece of work. I just want to use Icelandic on it. Look at 6. Okay, OK. Senators, the check-in. It's a three-and-a-half line. What does she say? ▪ At tourist attractions, such as 4. g., overseeing travel clinics that a person is owner of the natural rights paid and published on the subject. The management of a travel agency in a Minister's Regulation should be consulted for the management of the travel agency. Is there some kind of police authority to be moved by a travel agency, Mr. President? That would be new. What do you think will happen if some nice servant of a travel agency came to me at the Þinga and was going to stop me on Þingalund because I didn't have a lot of natural passes on the basis of this law? What do I say to that good man? I say, who are you, my dear? He says he's from a travel agency, a nature guard. I'll say, you're fine. Listen, I'm here on a trip to Vellina, and goodbye. What will he do? Is he going to arrest me? Does he have police authority? No. It does not even appear in the legal field that some employee should have a defined position according to the law. This isn't working. In this context, there has been some outstanding demonstrations. People have mentioned road patrols. I'll go over it. If people read the laws on this matter. You see, parking prices in the rural communities who themselves have taken up a parking lot have positions as legal. It says that they can fine those who engage in illegal conduct, and they can seek justice if they do not have that conclusion. The police watch show is thus handed over with a clear set of laws regarding parking lots to the parking lot. It is a law, and it is named there. Shall we take the road patrolrs from the Roadmaker? What's with them? Do they have police authority? No, but they have the authority to stop large cars, let them check their equipment and cargo, and they can weigh them and see if they're all right. Drivers must stop if a road inspector gives them a sign. What if the road inspector sees anything wrong? If he thinks a crime occurred, will he arrest the driver? No, he's calling the police. They're drawing the line. The traffic officer has the only right to make sure that the driver is waiting until the police arrive. The value of police authority cannot be handed out to some sort of person as well as to the south. A law like this that leaves no law against tourists at all. That's what all men see. A person who was so unhappy to get a job there who tried to take care of this surveillance could do nothing but say, "Well, if you don't want to show me your natural pass, then that. I'm not authorized to make your journey across the country. It's just that way. How can you think of putting it this way before the Council? Then, too, this is ruined because the bill has nothing to do with the subject. Even if a person is going to be able to get on with this erection, private people who prefer to stand outside the tourist pass may continue to charge, at least if the authorities decide they can. Unfortunately, the current industrial and commercial minister has the opinion that it is all right only to a private person if they really have no permission to do so under the protection laws and many more laws that guarantee public rights for the country. And to that end, if we're at any other level of this sort, it's the least thing to do is to keep people from getting their hands on the situation and preventing them from getting involved and sometimes not just going directly to pay themselves. If this is not to be handled, there is now little work to do. Then it says the highest. Minister, I am having a lot of retreat in the case, of course, that it's all right because not all places should be in there. But how's the bill? The book of Numbers states: "The kingdom of the heavens ▪ All tourist attractions owned or supervised by public sources are automatically involved in a natural pass.◯ - Then they explain what it is. That is what the Bible says. mgUnable to connect to POP server A list of the tourist attractions in Iceland that are part of the natural rights should be saved at any given time. It's all tourist attractions owned by public citizens. Now comes a minister, and says, "No, no, it will be published, and it will only need a pass in a very well - chosen location. " Where is the warrant in this bill to do that? She's none. There is no distinction. It is clearly stated that these tourist attractions, compare 6rd to the 6th century B.C.E. This is the case with the article "System of Nature, " which compares to 4. g., oversee a travel agency monitors that a person is owner of natural rights, etc. It must be accepted as a law permit for the Minister to reduce the number of sites with the Regulation, where it needs to be shown the baby, because the bill has no scope for this. The minister withdrew when it was started to point out that if the entire country owned a state and a community were under it, it would be a part of the country. Who would monitor it? One man in the office in Reykjavík? Iceland is 10,000 square miles, that would be an arm now. In this respect too, the bill doesn't make a difference. Then I'd like to ask if there had been an environmental and resource minister, if the Environment and Resource Ministers were satisfied that national parks and peace-declared territory disappeared from this income stock and had no guarantee that any of this money runs there? Today's travel-based budget is such that 2/5 of the revenues will flow directly to national parks and peaceful areas under the management of the Environment and Resource Ministry, which is to be removed by altering other laws, as agreed by Article 2 of Article 3. to put it this way: a state fund being made to collect state funds for the collection of natural passes. The fund's profits, but no earmarks to the national parks and the peace-declared areas. [[The president calls.]] Me and us here in the audience, two at least, know exactly what it took to achieve a proper agreement between the traveller and the national parks and the environment side, so I'm surprised if everyone is going to swallow this silent and silent. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u128	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's season for a fine talk and something upbuilding, at least at first. I'm glad to hear that the tone has been a little negative. I read his comments that it was necessary to secure funding in order to prevent damage at tourist locations. I'm asking why. Senator: Am I not correct in my understanding? Then he spoke up. A senator who has previously spoken of the public rights and referred to the Grágás Eyes. Now, for example in the Dark Towns, it's actually a while since I've been there, that there's a path. If I went to the Dark Towns, and I waved up the Grey River and said I could walk up there on the chimneys and anywhere else, and I didn't want to follow those paths, I'm afraid there'd be a glimpse of some patrollers there, and I couldn't. If I wanted to walk on the highway one, in the middle, a bug in the middle of the white bar, I'm afraid it wouldn't be allowed outside that it's extremely dangerous, so the Grey Age doesn't exactly work today, it's not like that. It worked well in its own time and in most places, it works well. There is an issue about whether private people can collect and there are two views; one on the other, the property rights and the public rights and the nature protection. These are matters that must normally be settled in court cases. I think it's right to be waiting for it, but I'd like to ask him why. A senator: Is he not sure that he approves of raising money to improve these sites?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u129	Mr. President. I now believe that I have made it clear that, among other things, with my work as Minister at the time when we recommended and accepted at the Council to contribute large sums of money on this project, which the present government went down sadly so that it would be rather me who should ask the management: Do you agree that there is something to be assigned to this structure? There is more doubt about it, as has been going on over the last two years. Of course, there are many things to be done that need to be earned so that many things can be treated decently. I also mention land cover, mass-flavoured tourist areas, hiccups and so on, parking lot, toilet position, etc. but there is also an investment to achieve the changed distribution of the tourists around the country. The pressure needs to be distributed by making the country the most part of the country in the article. As a result, building up a new destination is part of a travel fund. The unit was and is allowing some of the funds not only to be added to the areas already drowning in many tourists but also to build up new sails and new destinations so that we can spread the pressure. We need another or more gates into the country and other interesting destinations in general. Making these earns is no problem. This is done in part today, for example, by increasing the value tax on travel and demolition of the older ones, the article will be paying much more taxes to the state. It would have been simple to decide that some of those revenues were going on. The Gistint account returns about 250 million. K. Every year, it can be intensified. Then, the travel fund should be allowed to borrow temporarily to invest for the next two, three years and then pay it back with its limited income to the future, since we will not need billions of dollars per year for our lifetime, but we will have to invest for a considerable amount of money now two or four years in a row, and we will reassign those investments. Men have tried to assess the need for money, and there is a need for some 33/4 billion, and afterward they will have enough money for maintenance.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u130	Mr. President. It's interesting to hear what you're saying. A senator says there is no problem in earning money. He was now in a great struggle here to fix the extremely difficult position of state funds after the collapse and it was just a pretty big deal to make money. Our problem today is that the state's budget just owes me way too much and the idea of taking a loan that would then be responsible for making things right from the financial debt, I don't think that I'm anything particularly reasonable. [[Up front.]] However, regarding implementation, i.e. to provide sufficient sources to those who are to be monitored, it is a very well-designed assignment. A committee that finds the idea of having it totally bulletproof in the event of an emergency. A senator believes that there is something wrong with that subject. The change in distribution is also one thing to come in. It may be possible to do so so that these funds go beyond the current, into new places, etc. And the bill is open to it. Thus, the distribution of tourists throughout the country can be increased. But there is a problem, and I would like to ask. A senator whether he would agree that it is necessary to wind down the crisis in order to find funding for this project in the springtime.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u131	Mr. President. I'm sure this summer's been lost. There's no way you can put any currency in here almost out of the water and out of the blue in a few days in spring. You just have to face it the way it is. The second year in a row is wasted, and there is nothing more to do than to put a trust fund from the state's funds in the tourism industry to at least attack all the most important projects in this summer. But I would point out, for example, that you could change and improve your bedside fee. That would be a income stock of over 400◯500 million. Each year, let's say, in a manner similar to the market of roadmaking income. Then, of course, a travel fund might borrow temporarily from the state, and it would be reimbursed by its limited income. It is simply to form a debt on the profile fund of travel. We ran across one, two, three of the most difficult years in such a way. Then we reassign the fee, and it returns its income, and in two or three years it is reimbursed by the travel fund. If there is a will, there is no problem in doing this, of course not. I tend to agree that the dominant arrangement is to stick to the host's fee, improve it, and then move to service privileges when the ministry is built up. Of course, once a lot of cars have been run down in mass - flung tourist areas, it is time to pay for parking cars and buses. Once there is good sanitation, there is nothing wrong with taking a price for it. There could make a considerable amount of money in the most advanced places, which could be used to improve others. Finally, all I want to do is answer the first question from the previous answer. A senator on the grayás and the book of John It is fundamental to sense that they do not apply today. In fact, the laws on the public rights and freedom of travel were obligatoryly well thought of. And what about the Independence Party? Does the term freedom of choice fail to produce in his blood? Freedom? It was not written in the book of John to do anything on another man's land, but it was a matter of peace. [[The president calls.]] They were able to use their horses if they were hungry; they were able to hunt for their own salvation; they were able to take rice to prepare food; but they were to be comfortable, as at this day. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u132	A respectable president. Thank you. A candidate for an extensive public talk on this subject. I'd like to ask him to consider my options. If that route were to go - as the tourist service calls for. A senator spoke before here, and more senators have done today, to continue with the lodgers' fee, to raise it just, and to make small changes -- that doesn't change the problem we face, i.e. How we can prevent people from paying personal fees on our own ground. If areas are private property, these charges are under way regardless of the host's fees, and I know that we are. A senator is not only interested in changing that. It is therefore the question of how we take the next step toward preventing that payment because I think that's important. That's the first question. I'd like to pray. A senator to answer a different question. Like him, I can't find anything on the bill which area falls under this natural pass. Here's what it says: ▪ All tourist attractions owned or supervised by public sources are automatically involved in a natural pass.◯ It is referred to as a law on the National Building Program for tourists, a bill that is also available. It says the same thing: The government will automatically fall under a 12 year-old national policy programme. It may be necessary to be more aware of what is meant. Do we have to have a lot of natural passes when we're on Elanium? Do we have to have natural passes when we're walking on Smokeynes? I don't think people can carry on with this unless they explain what they're talking about.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u133	Mr. President. The reason for me to lean on it and to believe that the stay fee should stay is, first of all, that it is already there; it is not to be invented. It's very easy to change its implementation as I thought it should be from the beginning, i.e. that there's some category of animals at a hotel and a nice place to stay, a little or nothing in a tent park or anything like that, just a simple procedure. However, I am less likely to rule out coming or paying taxes if that is the only way to land this on both sides; as the result came at the time in the Committee, when people kept pointing each other out indefinitely. The airlines wanted a bedmark, the hotel wanted a partner tax, and the results, of course, became: you both have to pay a small price, and there is no unfair conclusion, relatively simple and inexpensive collections. Then I think that if you were right about it, a growing part of this income stock in the years to come could come from service expenses. Today, the parking lot in the Hacuna is expanding, with hundreds of malabundant automobiles that have cost tens and tens of millions of dollars to build up. What's wrong with paying to park there, e.g. That the buses pay 1,000 bucks. A price. [[Up front.]] It's simple to handle it, much simpler than this mess, huh? paritaprevir Blöndal Bömell. Or we'll go for it. A senator identifying himself at a travel agency in nature custody? How do you prevent the payoff? I think it must be defined by, among other things, by nature protection laws, areas that are meant to be open, where it doesn't matter who the owner is, whether it's a state, a community, peoples, private people, it's part of Iceland's nature in that sense, all nature, a peaceful area, all such places are meant to fall under the public rights and to be open. Of course, the State's responsibilities toward the individual, which may include his having the right to provide financial support for their land if necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u134	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this. I feel that the bill is a sign of being elaborately employed in the absence of these big opinions. We don't know that through this bill where this is exactly true, we don't know. Neither do we know what people are going to do with their privates, they're just left behind, the evolution will continue in a way that will be taken care of in individual areas, and so on. I also found this interesting. A senator mentioned in his speech the position of a traveling agency to demand whether or not people are suitable. There's so much in there, it's a very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very small bill. I wonder that the highest. The minister should work hard for the council to try to complete this spring council in the way this is. I'm not sure we can do that. I'm sorry because I'm very interested in finding ways to finance this structure. It is vital that we do so as soon as possible. That makes me feel strange to the top. Ministers will decide to take this vastly controversial course knowing that she will have a very difficult journey through the council. And then we stand where? With nothing. That's the problem. I would have wanted to leave it with what. The senator and the members of the council here that we must try this spring council to find ways to finance this, even though the Minister has provided a damaged bill. It is a question of whether we members of the Parliament should form a solidarity at the same time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u135	Mr. President. I just agree with what. Senator. This situation is urgent, and we must not waste any more time. We must not lose more years, so these terms need to be completed and the sum of them is reasonable. A decision must be made on what will be done or not done in the summer, and these matters will be permanently established. I think the main weakness of this approach is the making of the individual tourist in opposition to the payload, even the Icelanders, on their own land. Let's just take an old farmer north of the country, who hasn't had much to do with the Thiing floors or the Golden Falls and Geysces in his life, but who wants to go south and see these places. Should he be taken for granted if he comes once or twice in the United States? It just doesn't work out and never will, that's just the way it is. In terms of which area to fall under -- as I thought I was trying to prove in advance, I just began to look at it and to lie in the process of understanding it and to ask where the improvement is in what the minister now tells us to be, i.e. will be selected for 10 to 12 areas where the pass should be used. It's not like that, as indicated by 4. g., that all tourist attractions are owned or cared for by public bodies automatically contribute to the natural rights. Okay, if you don't change that article, that's the way it is. Is it in some places that it is necessary to show the baby only where it is? No. Is there any authority in the bill for the Minister to choose places and say, "This must have the pass? No, there's no authority on that subject or anyone made a thing. On the contrary, 6. Here's the deal. She's related to the fit of every region in the country. If this is to be done, then the bill must also be changed in that respect. It's just one of the several streets in there that are obvious to you and that you're convinced that the bill has ended up being a bit angry. We all know there's been a lot going on, and it's as simple as nothing, but the bill has ended up being ruined.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u136	A respectable president. Unreceptive fabrication, it was a fine opportunity for a talk to say that this bill ended that way. It's nice to review at the beginning of my speech what's only been tore up here today. That's the badass, isn't it? Ministers not to want to put money through the budget, although last year she was in the business of paying off money that she had not been authorized for at the council and then bringing the tail between her legs into the budgets and getting four hundred million dollars in the fund. We, on my part, in a financial committee, discussed this repeatedly on the committee. It speaks of discipline in terms of government matters and other matters, and it did not seem to us to be evidence of it, when the natural passes bill was not introduced, and there was no evidence of whether they would agree rather than be denied, as things were standing then and still. This is a very peculiar practice, even if we assume that the bill will be approved until spring or early summer, and then we would like to have a wide range of projects. At least the minister should have financed this section in a year, although she had not asked for more in her request on the tourist market. I'd like to go on a few things. Many good things have come to pass today, and it is very good to communicate on such a big matter. I'm just as convinced of that as most people do, it's easier said than done to find out the only way everyone's happy about it. I think it has it like so many other things, of course, it has to meet somewhere. It has well been suggested that this way does not appear to be the case, and more than a few think it is not good. They're wondering what the definition is in the law. A minister quoted this morning's nature protection laws and thought it was comparable. However, there is quite a disagreement, for it speaks of the environment of nature, and this definition is very clearly defined in both law and regulations, but this bill speaks of travel sites. There is really no detailed definition. I used to discuss the subject later on, and it points to the National Building Programme that there is also no definition - the attraction for tourists because of their nature and history - there is a natural opening. Similarly, because some part of the country has this definition, it is available to enter a paper over a place where natural passes can be used. For one thing, this definition is all too open. We talked earlier about a local society or somewhere else, and I live in a place that is considered a growing tourist location, the Mountain area. We define ourselves as a tourist place because the fear of travel has increased and especially with the arrival of the Fear of God. Thus, it has been passed on whether the holiday and the sunset would be the natural monuments that could be charged if people were visiting. Where to Stop? Who's going to decide it isn't? Not that it's necessarily the best country partner to charge over time and fall, we realize that, but it's one of the things that's all too open and undefined. I discussed today how hosting we want to be, what image we want foreign tourists to take from us when the country begins to experience the market. People come here to examine unmoved nature. We know that, according to surveys, what most people are looking for is unnorable nature, and the image we don't want to sell is that we charge people for watching the unquenchable nature. Then there's the other thing. Do we want to work everywhere to build wooden cables, rails, and anything like that, if we put it as a minister did this morning? No one's talking about safety being unconserved, but it's not possible that there's evidence that people have been everywhere, that's a type of thing in a lot of places. Nature can be protected in many ways, and this is not necessarily the case. Steps can be very simple and not have to be built up in a way that the minister mentioned this morning. I don't think this is a good way to market our country or improve our image as a tourist country. We heard it right away during the discussion today that we are in a very serious position as to where the fit is and where it is not. So it is with the public rights too, we don't have the same understanding of him. Today it was said that people thought that they understood him in the same way, but it was quite another time when you listened to the language, because freeness and permission throughout the country meant that there should not be a special payment for walking somewhere. This bill is inhibited by the fact that if we travel through a government property, which a minister decides by a law or so, we need to have a natural pass on our pocket. And if we choose to run through or decide to stop for some reason, we'll get busted for it. There's a lot of light in this bill. For the surveillance and travel agency, you may wonder if there are legal rights for this nature prices or for the employees of a travel agency to care for what they are going to do. At any rate, this is not the case. So you wonder: " Is it supposed to be a travel agency? It's an Iceland lab that's got the country's market, and there's been a lot of money from the government in Iceland to market Iceland and it's given us quite a break. Why isn't it entrusted to her? That would make much more sense. Then there is the other opinion, if a private member, because the bill does not prevent it, will not participate in the natural pass. No doubt, in many places where the population of tourists is large, a private citizen has much more than a billing himself and making his own fee instead of sharing in the natural pass. That's for damn sure. It is not the motivation for this, but it is the motivation for having people on the payroll and trying to make tourists, both foreign and domestic. These markets in our country are not good. It's also the definition of infrastructure. Landowners are not necessarily obliged to build a particular situation, though they stumble. This is not so, though, of course, it is wise for them to do so. But this is not a duty. There's a lot of things that don't smell in this bill. I believe the tourism service has a bit of its own to carry the heat and weight of paying for our country's resources, and it makes a lot of money. They may, among other things, carry out their business by making known that they contribute a great deal to the environment or such. This can, in turn, increase the flow to them rather than many other factors. It has only been discussed with the host tax and is claimed in the bill that it has a negative impact on the demand for lodging in the country. At the same time, a minister says that people are willing to pay much more than a hundred thousand dollars. ... fora naturalpass. It's not quite going to work out. I think it's mainly the flight fee to the country that people look to, large families, and others. Similarly today, when we go abroad, we have been given a wide range of bills, and we pay all kinds of fees, usually through the hostels where we stay or through the plane ticket. It is stated on the web of tourist visitors that the average host's fee was 416 k. in cities when we put it in 2011. We're doing 100 bucks here. We're going to need an update, that's for sure. It's not okay as it is, and I think it would be wise to implement it. My time is running out, and I'd like to go to the Ministry of finance for a moment. I think it says quite a bit, and among other things, they're entering the administrative ticket, $15,000, and they're supposed to take effect immediately on September 1st, 2015. There is, however, no way to follow it, and a minister did not answer it this morning when asked what would happen if a person did not pay the fine. It's not yet answered, and I don't think a minister will. I'm gonna grab off to the bill, the Ministry's review. It shows that there is no total government policy on the future development of regional and state oversight as tourist attractions. It is then referred to the National Building Programme. In what comes from the Department of Business and Development, the cost is spoken of, the stock costs of a travel agency, i.e. that the payment system, pay expenses, advertisements, introductions, and other costs will be 92 million. K. in 2015. Then there's 60 billion. K. the contribution to presentation and marketing, the cost of this and annual management, to a maximum of 3.5% of the revenues, and then to the way this is carried out. At the end of this report, with the permission of presidents: The project has not been expected either by natural passes or by their provision for operating costs and implementations in the existing bill for budgeting for 2015, but this plan is based on the maintenance of income and expenditure so that natural passers will not be allowed to take over the budget. Prior to that, the fact that this is not fully subversive is attributed. I think most of us who have spoken today would agree that the matter is not well built up and that it can be done much better. I believe that, because we hear that there's no convergence between groups here at the council, that the bill can't pass unless it makes a big change.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u137	A respectable president. I feel like a whale. Senators here have discussed this bill forget a little bit that it wasn't just snatched from the air, and a minister didn't take it out of the air, and he wrote it out of his own head. It says clearly that it has been won primarily because there was a high demand for the matter to be considered, as it says here, that there had been a strong urge to start forming some of these ways. In the course of consultation, it is quite clear, as it says, that this is exactly what was called by this route. That's why she's in this bill and we're talking about it, so there's nothing to throw it away like it's some kind of remains. And then I think why. Councilmen are overexploiting their gnats about how difficult it must be to monitor. The first year, there can be a very low level of observation. You can start this thing real fast. I have no doubt that this project would be very easy. This is absolutely a flotation of gnats. I'm sure everyone has what they need. Some local delegates travel by transport, for example, in the north. There you jump aboard, there's no one asking about a license or a fee. But if you don't pay, of course, you're in danger of getting into some butt, you may never get in it, but sometimes, at some point, you're paid a fine. These can be exactly the same conditions we're talking about, exactly the same, it's not complicated. This has been done many times, and this is with peoples in many lands. People don't think it's unnatural.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u138	A respectable president. Thank you. Her speech was given by a senator, for there was no direct question. No, it's not taken out of the air, it's absolutely true. However, it has been observed that this is what tourism is, and the one involved is most fond. I've been through this conversation a little bit. First, she was impressed with her, but then it became clear when a minister decided to bring her to the later stage that they strongly opposed her. They wanted the cost of stay or dues. This is what the tourism wants to talk about. To make a camel out of a gnat, I just don't think it's right. To compare this to walking on a train, I feel that it is not possible to do so. Our country is not small. You see, it's a big thing. There's no point in setting up some surveillance and some penalties, like a government ticket of 15 yous. K., if it's just set to put it, if no one knows how to deal with it or no one knows how to follow this check. If people are to be monitored for paying - these are terms of the need to buy a pass and 70% of the tourists from abroad are expected to do it - how. A senator who thinks this is a problem is expected to collect the fee? Is that supposed to happen at the airport? Is that supposed to happen well, where? [[Up front.]] How is this to be done? How should we be sure that this will work out? And it would be interesting to know how the senator visualizes the inspection.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u139	A respectable president. I can only imagine learning from those who have been running this system for years and without any trouble, so it can't be complicated. Then there is the other with the discussion. Travelers who called for this exact way may now have changed their mind, but things may also be fully revised. It's possible and it'll probably be done, but now this idea is on this table, and it's very effective. She can be arranged and started very quickly. Of course, if there are better ways, you can immediately consider, but I cannot see that this way is so bad. I think it's easy to make, and I think the criticism I've heard today is somehow not good enough to fit the ideas presented here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u140	A respectable president. That's right, we're just intruding. I don't think it's simple. And the fact that the organization of tourism, national security, and others in this case concluded that there were no other ideas to be discussed, what does that tell us? It says that this was only to be done because the minister wanted to, in spite of the opinion of the stakeholders of other means. Today, however, it was observed that the collection of host tax was complex. I object, I work in that sector, so I just object that there's something difficult. There are laws and rules that can be corrected, and I think that it needs to be done, clearly, because I think we can get more money in there on different types of accommodations. But what I criticize about this - why. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's mask was very well handled by the law, that there were no sources, and so forth to accomplish this in terms of, for example, nature prices and the like. There are too many opinions and, as I say, the issues involved in this surveillance are not ideally seen, that men buy natural passes, but they say if they're not bought - we have to inform them - they're at risk of guilt. Hv. A senator said that a person may be able to get into a train and choose whether he would pay or not and take a chance, of course. No question about it. But no one can tell what happens then because it's not in the bill. What happens if I don't buy a pass and I don't have a credit card to pay the fine?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u141	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For an excellent and upbuilding talk, Olsen Gunnarsdóttir's daughter arrived. She mentioned one small item that has been discussed here today. What is it that allows people to choose land to travel around? First and foremost, the fare. It's expensive and it's where the charges come in, the fees train the fare. Second, it is a place of lodging, where the host's fee and the train costs come. Both can be dangerous if you begin to relax on a tourist stream to Iceland, which will probably happen sometime. So we need to be very careful in the matters of concern. That's exactly what the senator pointed out. And what is it then that they do not watch when they travel abroad? It's all the other cost. It's food, it's trips, there's tunnels, people don't watch it. And what people are talking about in this relationship is only $10 just a little more, that's not very much, or 10 euros hardly. And the fine is $100, or 100 euros, it's all very heavy. I think it'll be very easy selling this to tourists. And where does that happen? Now at every hotel where they meet or on the bus from Keflavík. There's a tourist pass sold, and people say, "You're going to look at Gold Falls and Geyssi, buy a pass, it's for sale here." No problem. Hv. A senator also asked which places were tourist places. It's in 9. .., authorising Regulation for Ministers, he will define what tourist attractions are. I couldn't agree more. A senator with all these wooden cables, the rails, and all of this, but these are inevitable consequences of a massive stream of tourists. I don't think it's scary to come to the Thiing Field and see this ironmonster there.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u142	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. It is natural for this taxation, whoever it is and wherever it is that we need to be moderate. So I asked here today if the reconstituted route could be taken. People can choose what kind of lodging they buy; they don't have to be the most expensive, they can be cheaper, and then people have to pay a lower host tax. People can buy different expensive flights, but the same tax is always available when they fly. No doubt there are different ways of doing this. I agree with the senator that in some places there is a great need to correct security issues. But that's not what people are coming to see, i.e. It's so manned everywhere in all the tourist attractions. And what are tourist attractions? Despite a minister's definition of 10 or 12 locations, there is an open door for a private driver all over keppres. Not to be overlooked is the fact that this is not just what the minister decides by Regulation, 10 to 12 places. And is that forever or ever, or how you look at it? Can other locations come in over time? If tourists drop down, should we increase the number of places we charge? Is that what we expect? What are we going to do? Or do we just assume that we're going to have to come up with such a nice wood that we don't need and what do we need? I don't agree that this is the best way. I think we should try to go another way. I don't think the Minister explained it if a fine is not paid or a warrant - what makes the natural man who fines me? He doesn't have a warrant. There's no use setting laws and regulations if not carried out, if that's just a punt. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u143	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answers. I pointed out that a return fee is the train ticket and a checkout fee is made for the hotels or for the lodgings where that is thought to be the case. There are a lot of black jobs in that sector, and the host's fees are still much more competitive. I think that's what we're talking about. Hence, a senator should consider the way in which he is assigned and not train the travel or the lodging. Officers'sources, they may need to be sharpened. Well, that's what makes it so. Name it, sharpens the surveillance authority if it's not already on the bill. Now, when you talk about private people, you can collect for parking lots, etc., it all costs. The world costs a living bee. If a private person has small weights and few buses come every day, it doesn't pay to collect, the person is likely to accept natural rights. It costs to collect, whether it is an account or a parking lot. People need to stay up late and early in the morning. It's very expensive, for example, in the Haggard tunnel. It costs 60 to 70 billion. K. A year to collect there. So I think there will be more people involved in this as private partners than is expected and people have spoken of here, that it will be popular for privates to participate in these natural passes. So about the wooden cables and the rails, huh? A senator named Olafsunda Wall. I've been there, ran there once, he's extremely dangerous. I couldn't see 100 people up there and the buses without having the really good handle when kids fool around all over the place.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u144	A respectable president. I'm gonna start where it's at. A senator ended. I wouldn't want to walled Ólafs a wall, that's what I can say right here, right now. That is not what we are seeking when we go up and watch the sunset. I've kept my children under control, I believe others can do that. We've been up there without being hurt. I took this as an example because I think we have to give a warning. There are some things that can go wrong with this. I wasn't just talking about little private places, setting up tourist attractions are owned by private people, we've gone over it. They can also choose because they can come out better, how much they charge for this. It's one thing to charge for a service granted, as we have discussed, a toilet, a parking lot or something like that, you can choose to charge for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u145	That's gonna cost a lot.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u146	But charging for experience, as is being done here, is not my type. V.E.G. At this point, a minister told me to read the bill about the Rapporteurs, but there's nothing that I'm asking about. If I refuse to give up my social security number and I don't say my name and I'm a foreign tourist, then nothing will come out of me, that's just the way it is. I can be an Icelander, too, and I can just say, "No, I just don't talk to you, sorita. And how will you charge? Hunting a man? If a great proportion of the nation decided to do this. [[Up front.]] I know, Minister has to answer that. There is nothing that says it because it does not seem to be in any other way. I feel like we're putting wood laws here that don't go up and are more to show off than the rest. I also thought that the minister should put more emphasis on land prices and their work than on creating a new cast of nature guards.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u147	V.E.G. President. The discussion that has been conducted here has been in many ways very interesting and enjoyable, but in many respects I feel that it has gone a little bit in circles, I'll come in better after that. But I have felt that we are about 30 years late to record something called pay for a tourist position. I remember that some 20◯25 years ago, it was very much in the discussion, and then there was a high - ranking government official in the travel agency who totally took it away and called the watch fees and kept his work. I felt that it was indistinguishable to them and, by now, indistinguishable that people do not want to pay what is necessary to achieve the goal that I think we all agree on. That is the purpose expressed in paragraph 1. The bill, which says, by permission of the President: The aim of these laws is to promote the protection of Iceland's nature through needed structure, maintenance and protection of tourist facilities as well as the support of tourism issues. I think we all agree on this. I think it's also available for us to look at the way we can achieve goals in payment in as simple and efficient as possible. For a few years, we've had a misdemeanor, difficult collection, failed to return what was expected at the outset, and unfortunately, we may simply be in the capital area a thousand rooms and apartments rented without being registered, no hosting fees, in fact, returning no taxes. There's panic to think, and the next thing I'm sure is that it's not one thing in Reykjavík, it's so wide. So the host's fee is very complicated at collections. Intuitions are many, and it is expensive to collect, and that is exactly what we need to avoid. Then you will see the likely way to be simple and, what to say, especially in Iceland. Perhaps it is one of the things that has caused me a little surprise here today that it is assumed that a natural pass, if it does, will cost the Icelanders 1,500 bucks. 3 to 3 years, i.e. 500 bucks. every year. If we compare the return charge, the next sure thing we do is we have to put a charge on the domestic flights as well. This means, for example, that people living in Egls and a long - suffering child or when patients themselves have to pay on their cargo every time they fly between parts of the country. It's just the kind of thing that we need to try to prevent by simplifying the matter as we can. I'll put a lot of notices on the bill. I think that it can be reformed in many ways, but I like the basic idea. In its most pure form, I feel that natural passes are like the approach to Iceland as a kind of national park, that Iceland is all a national park, and by paying for natural rights men to pay access to this park. There was a question earlier. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, wondering what a stranger would think of collecting such charges in Iceland. I'm next sure that people who live at Königssee, Bavaria, who have paid access to their own natural bulbs for 120 years, will not be able to come to Iceland and pay to experience natural bulbs. I'm pretty sure that people who live close to or who have visited Krammler Falls in Austria who have paid access to access to natural bulbs. I'm also sure that people who have come to the Grand Canyon in the United States or to the Yosemite National Park who have paid for it don't feel that it's an arrangement to come to Iceland and pay for an experience in Icelandic nature. Of course, we're supposed to look at what's done elsewhere, and we've been doing well elsewhere because all three or four places I mentioned aren't going down on their knees as they do on the moons in the Moons. Hence, in the United States, platforms with their hands do not have so much creepy projects for a person who has walked there in the open months where there are no platforms. And it's not just that you spend your money in your knee, it's just that you're hurting the country by doing that. It is time long ago that many of our most precious pearls are in danger of overemphasis. It is as is sometimes happening to us Icelanders, a few years ago everyone agreed to take a heading for Iceland within a few years to arrive in 1 million tourists. Now that it happens, and I feel somehow like we're saying, "Ups, we've got a million tourists, what are we gonna do with them? Something like that. That is to be expected only in time, and we are long past that time. We must take some action to make sure that the places that have been overreached will not be destroyed. There's been a lot of public rights here, and it's important to us all, and here's been quoted at Guðmundur Böðvarsson and Jónas Hallgrímsson and Rauðhetta Ridings, because it's a matter of support, and I take my heart to it, but there are still places that I'm quite sure will soon be found, within a very short time, even shut up, that they will be spoken and even arranged so that we can't walk about them unless under the direction of our guide. I can name only two trails in Iceland, a Five-Landered and a Locker Road. It's overdone, thrown down, and it's looking at trouble, if that goes on. In the past 20 years, I've been to Landsaholics, like you guys, every five years, and I'll always need a shock stroke after I've been there, things get worse every time. There we must be men to say no, here come only a thousand people a day or 500 people a day, and we must make sure we receive them properly. Of course, it will impair public rights, but I think there's a need to do something like that, to resort to such measures to avoid the fact that these places are finalized. We do not need to stop our pearls from being trampled down. We also need to make sure that those who come here as guests are properly welcomed, that they can walk in a measure of dry feet if such ones want to go to where they want to go, that they have a private bathroom service, and their safety, so that they don't step down to the side, do not go for living, etc. In itself, I think we're luckier than we think, Icelanders, that we shouldn't have lost more tourists in accidents during the past few years because our surveillance has been inadequate, our service has been inadequate, and our reception has not been what it should have been. One more example is the question of building wood, a region such as Southland. During the summer season, the natural population is multiplied there. What does this mean? I know that guides carrying a busload of people have been in trouble because passengers on the boat have suffered sudden health attacks, heart attacks, diabetes jost. So where's the next doctor? We need to think about all these things so that people will be able to experience and make the valuable things we have, in a safe way, and in a way that they are willing to come back here and/or recommend to the next person to come here. Of course, we need to be in a position to receive the people. I say, in my simplest form, I find the natural pass attractive in this respect as I said before. He goes down to a small extent as a cost to the population. True, I believe that the way he's sold and where and then I'll come back to what I said earlier on the entrance to Iceland. I can't see that the natural pass as such is a prerequisite for entering here, to enter the country, to be sold in the cargo either on the ferry or on the flight, and to be sold as part of a ticket on a cruise ship. Let us not forget that we have to cover this entire market so that we do not differ, we are naturally not allowed. The simpler the collection and the fewer where it is served, the better. I told them earlier that the cost of a bed was in that way bad. It is collected in hundreds or thousands of places here in Iceland. The currency stock is very low, and it's very expensive to watch. Even if we feel that collecting tickets is simple, I still think, if I remember correctly, there are about 45 people who at some point during the year take flights to Iceland every year, 45 members. Yet, it is relatively simple to hold it. If we add to those that land outside of Keflavík, that's what we'll do. in Reykjavík, Akureyri, even Eglish positions and the ferry of the Southland, we're talking about high levels of 60 people. We need to take a very careful look at these matters, and I'm sure that when the bill comes to a professional committee, it will take a very careful look at them, they'll be given careful treatment, the ones sitting in bed. The employment committee will have visitors, etc. A professional health committee is now well - known for handling matters promptly if that is the case, and I am quite convinced that this will be done in this case. I'm not concerned with the attitude of the travel agency on this matter because it has not in itself been uniform during the treatment of the situation up to this point. It has been said that the movement has, in part, split into its position on the matter. It is only natural, however, to consult with these individuals in the future in order to ensure that the matter is successful and that we make it as well as possible. It's not flawless. There are things I'm going to do in advance, such as. of 4 C.E. c., where it says that tourism sites do not belong to public agencies, you can apply for a part in the natural rights. I believe that there is some way that a person's duty to participate in it. We should not have a double, three, four times system of how we collect. We're not supposed to. We're supposed to avoid it as much as we possibly can. It must be possible to arrange for this to become a major yellow root enough to ensure high levels of participation. Another point is in 11. See, and now it's just a workout thing, it's how to exchange income. I feel that there is only a need for income to be built up so that tourists can be distributed there. I can mention at random civil fun, Snowfells, which is not used today, and there is also a shortage of facilities. I could take the northeast corner, I could take the Westfjords, all these are the places we need to remember that in order to spread the tourists better and safer around the country, and to help build up the country as far as we can, we can be able to see the most of the country and strive to see that it will not be at the expense of the country. We must agree on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u148	Thank you. A senator for the speech. If I get his speech correctly, he's talking about the lack of funding into the construction of tourist facilities in the last few years. Then I would like to remind the senator that just over the last two years, there has been an enormous amount of money and lack in the construction of tourist facilities. [[Foreground in: Never been given the same...]] The decision has not been made to provide continued funding in the construction of tourist areas. I'd also like to remind you that there are no income stocks for the parks in this bill, they're taken away. It may also remind us of the investment plan of the former government that this government decided to have nothing to do with, and it also gave off money in order to have money to continue with some kind of plan like it. There were 750 million chosen for 2012 to be included in the construction and protection of tourist attractions. So there has been a great deal of evidence that people have given up income stocks in the construction of tourist facilities. This has happened over the last two years. I also miss it from the bill that no income stock is marked in a country guard. But I share with who. A senator's concern is that such areas as the Landsauticians and the Road have been under intense pressure in recent years. I want to ask you why. A senator about his opinion of the innkeeper's fee because I feel I need only his clearer interpretation of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u149	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator for good questions and fine words. Yes, it is, of course, that it was set in its own time in the last government a good implementation program which, in part, wasn't the basis, but it's another matter. They've put quite a lot of money now to this category, like in last year's fundraisers. But because the bedside fee was specifically asked, I can tell you that I am the sworn opponent of a bedkeeper. Why? As mentioned in my talk earlier, it is very complicated in collects, there are a large number of collectrs. Its efficiency is not good. If you watch its total volume, it has never occurred since it was due in its time. I was employed in the Environment Ministry at the time of this fee, and I remember how it was expected that it would deliver 320 million in the first year, resulting in 80 million. When there's some tax that shows that it's not working at all and that it doesn't come back, I don't want to extend it. I just don't think it's right. Therefore, I find it easier to collect, more efficient, and immediately pay, which is taken from fewer sources, which are easier to collect, less expensive, and to provide, I just think it's more likely to work. I agree with what. In fact, a senator and I spoke that Iceland and I should have already begun to contribute funds for this seminary class to build wood. We haven't done that yet, but let's just pull ourselves together to put this matter into order to make it successful for this article. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u150	Then we share that opinion, me and what. Senator, we want more structure. But I get it right at what I'm talking about. A senator prefers taxing individuals for enjoying nature rather than taxing the companies working in travel? Let me remind you, the 2013 travel agency was 283 billion, just this way to show that there are huge costs.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u151	V.E.G. President. Asks whether to collect more from individuals. So this business, tourism, is based on selling services to persons. This means that if business partners are taxpaying more than reasonably, they simply raise the price tag that the person pays. We can also take the check we were talking about earlier. I don't know what you think. That is the price of a senator, a price paid by those in charge. In the current situation, e.g. 18% of the host's fee, however, collected in Iceland today is paid by the Icelanders. It's not paid by the hotels, it's paid by the sleepers. It's only in the bill for the room. So it is paid by individuals. If we were talking about paying this from a government fund, it would take on individuals and natural companies, including taxpayers. In this way, I believe that they are being paid to pay for the services they enjoy.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u152	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the speech. I thought it would be nice to know how he had an open mind on how to do funding for the construction of these tourist facilities. I agree with him that it's sad, and I've done the dry road myself and come to the Landers, how well you see the contents of those places. There's also another thing that I've often wondered about, thinking that is something we should look at, which is how little money is charged for all the services given in these places. Consider an example. The only time a man puts something in a cabin where you stay is, but on the way, you still use a variety of services, you use toilet seats where you stop for less time, you check in books so you can watch your trips and know that you have returned yourself safely all the way, etc. People get a lot of service for nothing. This may be something that only a person needs to consider, whether it is possible to make money for all the services rendered. There's a sordid field of mine. Then I'd like to consider that I think it matters that we don't care about it during this council to finance the project so that people can take serious action this summer. I find a lot of interesting things in the language of the day. A senator, but I couldn't quite tell which way he wanted to go. That's what I'm talking about. A senator to accept this natural pass as it is available, or did I hear him say he prefers us to charge a price on our flight?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u153	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for her word. It is fair to the senator that the man standing here is the sponsor of the success of this case, but I believe there are a number of adjustments to this matter. Why do I believe that this case is going to take a walk? Most of it because, as I said earlier, it's simple and it takes the least of Iceland, that they have to pay for what's going on. We are now forced to charge Icelanders because we are participants in a worldwide work that puts it on our shoulders. As far as I'm concerned, the solution, if I may, would have been that we'd taken out a price similar to the U.S. ESTA, but it's not working because we're in the EEA, etc. We will seek other routes, and in my opinion, we will seek them to find an efficient fee, it is simple to collect it, it is not particularly burdensome, and that it is a bite mentioned by all in Iceland itself. I can't tell from the fact that we're paying $1,500 to $3, 500. Every year, for going through this country. I don't think it's a threat to public rights at all, it's a threat to public rights no more than if we're going to let this go, and then we're going to have to raise the tax fee or collect in another way. I don't see that it's burdensome. I think there's a way to monitor the Iceland factor through the tax returns. I think that's the simplest way. So above that level, I'm a follower of this case with several adjustments. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u154	Then I'd like to ask. A senator into what may be most bothering me about this bill as it lies before him. It's a surveillance system, how to envision this surveillance. I think it's extremely unattractive. We're trying to install some kind of collect, which is simple and comfortable to handle. The surveillance system that is being proclaimed is not. If you plan ahead to say that you don't have to worry about it, that it'll be easy to do, that we'll just get started and get into this, as was said of the day, there's no motivation to pay that price. I don't think that's the end of people's minds. I also feel that there's a need to be, if there's any wood, how to build up the surveillance system. I don't think it's gonna be clear enough in this bill. It's the factor I'm most opposed to. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u155	V.E.G. President. It's really nice to answer this because it's one of the biggest things I've ever been surprised to hear about setting things up. They've been talking about bad luck and people with catfish all over the country. I see just the possibility in surveillance that patrolrs not only will be patrolrs but also service workers, because we are in desperate need of services in our less-than-reached territories. We need to explain one example, people in the National Park, who actually tell people there what they're looking at. I know people who travel on their own roads, e.g. in the House of Congress, who misses not having such service on hand. Of course, such ministers can monitor the fact that men are there on the right basis. So I'm not worried about that. I just feel like there's a chance. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u156	Madam President. I think we're right next to what's going on. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson that we senators agree on the need to contribute to the construction, maintenance, and protection of tourist facilities, but this is about how we do it. It seems to me that there are fundamental differences in understanding or understanding. That is why we need to discuss this matter very carefully, for it will cut deep. Hv. A senator earlier said that if I understood what was right, he thought the natural pass was the last way that the Icelanders had to deal with it. You see, he said that natural rights are access to a park. Then I'd like to ask. Senator: Is it reasonable for us citizens of the park, Icelanders, to pay special attention to living here with a natural pass on the other taxes we are paying? To me, we're in a bit of a weird situation here. Hv. A senator also said that he was precious to the public rights. I don't see how it all rhymes, so I want to pray. A senator to explain this to me a little bit more.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u157	V.E.G. President. I love to try to shed light on it before the wind. A senator what I meant. I believe there's nothing wrong with us Icelanders paying 500 bucks. This year, Iceland, for access to selected spheres. I quote the experiences of other nations in this regard. In the National Park in the Grand Canyon of the United States, which, in fact, is huge, it takes me about 40 minutes to drive through, e.g. Both ends, and they sell their way in. There they don't get to act who they want. There they go, in fact, on buses, because the park is a lot of traffic. I don't see anything wrong with that. I've been worried about the Þingvall National Park for many years, so I'm happy for every walk I've seen there, whether it's wood or moth. I can't see that both foreigners and foreigners are somehow paying for access to this pearl in order to prevent it from being plagued. When I talk about free flows through the country, it's so nice to walk across the fields and live in the streams and all that, which we did during the days of Grágás, when we were a few hundred thousand and thousands of people in the country. Now we are 330,000, and there are more than a million tourists who visit the highest level, so the pressures on the land are very different and in a way that is very different from those of the day. As a result, we need to pay attention to our natural needs and strive to see that the land will not be exposed to disturbance. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u158	Madam President. I can't understand a word of it. A senator may feel that he is out of the public rights, that he is a child of his time. I couldn't understand this other than now that we'd become so many, we'd have to go that way to pay ourselves to our own country with a natural pass, to choose that way. That's what we're doing. A senator disagrees. It is fine to get that out of the way, since this is in my mind a fundamental element of this discussion. There's one thing. Besides, you have to get all of this to work to get the money in. There's something like that. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir asked about earlier. My time is up, and that's why I just want to ask. A member of Congress: Is he not concerned about what the Ministry of finance says about the fact that there should be only one party to take care of this? [[The president calls.]] Believe it or not. A senator in real life that will work? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u159	V.E.G. President. As far as the public court is a child of its day, I'd like to point out that in the current U.S. National Park and the Watersland Park, both sides have the right to pass. Those who applied that law were saying that this authority would need to be there, not necessarily to use it. Is that to impair public rights? I don't believe in it. But, as I told you before, when it is time for us to become so many in the country with over a million tourists every year, we're going to have to do something about it. As to the second question, if I think it's possible to collect it, I actually said in my speech earlier that I wanted the simple collection of the natural pass, and I think it can be done. I think this is going to work. [[The president calls.]] I'm not worried about that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u160	A respectable president. I'm not going to belittle the fact that it's a difficult and complicated matter that we're discussing here and the highest. A minister is sure of pity because there is no one way to say that there is one way in this that anyone likes, it would probably have been put into use. It must also say that we Icelanders have been embarrassed when it comes to this series of languages. Sports from tourism have been intense and, in some cases, irreversibly damaged by nature. Here, according to the report, tourists have grown quite rapidly since the turn of the century. I worked as a tour guide around 1994/1995 and until the turn of the century, and when the hurry was very great, and I had trouble getting to the toilet. I remember having tourists pee in a moat, and in busy places, there were all kinds of steps to be formed, for these were not in themselves encouraged to raise their hands or point people in a certain direction. We've been watching this for decades, I'd say. It's time to do something. In fact, the tourist market fund was a very positive and good step. I find much of the criticism presented during the discussion totally valid. It is the basic cost and cost of operating at the natural pass and the monitoring that can be complex and introduction to the pack and, in fact, all the functions. I was listening to the discussion earlier, and I remind myself of it. paritaprevir Blöndal H. Farm said that any place you want to sell your pass on the bus, along the way from Keflavour Airport, in hotels. Then I began to wonder if there would be a picture of the person in the pass. Can people lend each other the right fit? There's a lot of things to do. Of course they do, but it's complicated. Where is this fit going to be sold? I imagine you have to have a picture of yourself, or what? That brings me to my attention on page 18. 25 in the bill, that it is as if funds or status values are not expected for the monitoring and for all of these activities. It is written on page 5. 25 That there is one new level of status expected from a travel agency as a result of this and that the members will be monitored along with other employees who are employed at the Agency today. You wonder if the funds for the project have not been secure. Besides, I can't help over recalling one of the first cases of a new government that was about to drop out of the cost tax from 7% to 14%. He was to return 500 million in 2013, 1.5 billion in 2014, and that income would actually have increased because there were more tourists than we planned. This tax step was thought to be so complicated, but I don't know if it's more complicated than the procedure we're about to take today. I wasn't happy with the government decision, because we have to have the courage to tax this industry like anyone else. I remember that during the discussion, it was a lot to say that it would not be right to raise money at the tourism service and discuss Iceland's competitiveness in this regard that higher taxes could reduce the travel - to - the - country movement. Then you can ask yourself, " Does being with a tourist pass not smell the same hurt? ' Will it in some way impair our competitiveness? I find this a very complex way, and I wonder if it wouldn't make more sense to tax this business, whether it's a place to stay, travel, bathroom visits, whale inspections, or what it is now, that we have a merit tax on this industry, like everyone else, and she enjoys building wood. There have been other ways. As I said in the beginning, there is nothing simple, and I feel that there is nothing direct. The charges are complex, and maybe especially because as I understand this, domestic flights must be submitted as well. I don't think everyone would agree that on a spell on the domestic flight, that's not as good as it is. Do you remember taking any price away and posting it a price? I don't quite see that it really gives me something back. However, a return fee is a simple way. It doesn't really have to be very high. So it could be 200 K, if it's laid on so many tourists and those who fly quickly, it should be simple to collect the fee. At least I don't think it's a way to get rocked. Besides, I don't necessarily agree with those who speak a lot for the host's fee, for raising it. I think it's a relatively small amount now. It's also in different shapes, it's on a bedside level, and then it's just a price that matters if anyone's selling a hotel room at 25 yards. K. or 3 you. K. I don't think mountain barracks are immune, but the tents aren't. Also, I don't think it's fair that some one sector within the tourism service is taking over all the taxes. Then she should lie down on every one of them, the bus companies, and all those involved, perhaps in the form of a valuable tax. I heard why. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon gives an interesting idea to radio show, which was a parking charge, i.e. that, as with most of the most of the largest places in the world, parking lots of cars were simply charged. As we know, a map or money can be used and a note can be put in the window and you can expect a supervisor to catch you if you don't fit in. Then I'm thinking that we don't have the only solution, we're gonna turn up the sector, and then we're gonna have a sleeper's fee in some form of the most versatile position. Since it has already made a parking lot, has it had to go to expense, and is it impossible to pay a price to park your car? You know that from abroad. If I could advise the highest. If I were a minister, I was impressed that we would collect here and there in a fair way. I think the parking lot is worth looking at. I'm worried about the pass. I agree with what has been said here about people and especially foreigners, how do we make sure that everyone knows the pass, that they don't just show up and then they're fined, or are they advised to go and buy the pass? Also, a tourist may be caught somewhere and has not yet got his way out of the pass and is fined. Or he sees himself and buys his pass, then goes to the next place, where he's charged because there's someone there who didn't want to be involved. In the meantime, he even went through the Hun Lakes and got a quick ticket from the fast - paced police force at the M.P.P.P. I wondered how this can look in the real world for the tourists and how we're going to make sure they all know about the natural pass. In 2013, if I recall correctly, about 400 million, which this government decided to cut down and then had to collect the funds for money that are not to be imitated. I think it's right what's going on in the bill, that it's not necessarily good that there's a 50% objection because the circumstances of those who pick up from the fund are so different. However, this was an important step at the time and completely necessary and disappointing that the funds in the fund have been reduced, as was the case. To be on the positive note, I'd like to say that it seems to me like a bill on a national structure program for tourists that hangs a little with this bill here, to be a very good step in the right direction and based on a long-term vision, but we'll discuss it later. One thing I would like to suggest is that if a natural pass becomes reality, we have the courage to appreciate how things have worked out after some time, and to face up to whether this has worked or not and to change them. It's a little bit of a experiment project. I don't quite agree with the procedure, as we have seen, and I'd like us to tax the industry and tourists in another way. If this is to happen, and I suppose it can be, I hope we look to how it has worked out, to appreciate it and to be ready to admit if it didn't work out well enough. Maybe it's going really well. I want to emphasize that and that we will change the course if it turns out that this has not had the desired results. Because it's 1st. I don't think there's anything more to say about it right now. I'm expecting an enormous number of reviews on the subject, a lot of discussions on the committee, and 2nd. It's lively when it comes to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u161	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech and her review. This discussion has been far and wide today, and it is nowhere near the end. I'd like to ask you what. A senator because she's a member of a budget board. I'm a little bit thinking about the money side of all of this, especially how the tourism fund angry on the other side and on the other hand, the other end of the stay-over fee was due, i.e. 40% or 2/5 of the entrance due to the host's fee, which was arranged directly without the access of tourist attractions in parks and a peaceful region, both Lake Bay and Þingalval Park. It seems as if with a single pencil line it is not expected that these national parks and peace-stained areas will improve this change, since I cannot see that the right of nature should bring these specific areas to good advantage. I want to ask you why. A senator would either have her review and read the case or during the discussion today will realize if there is somewhere between the lines to make sure that this area is not part of the financing. We'd be in a very strange place if this Congress case were to cut the place of the National Parks in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u162	A respectable president. If I recall what I was looking at here today, I can't see that there's some kind of money in this project that I can't figure out, i.e. The tour, the presentation, and all that, of course, may be taking them away from a travel agency and putting something else on the line. That is not to say that this money is not there, but some amount is not exactly expected. Money, for example, was expected in the transport of Fishing Room. The people saw it coming. It doesn't look like it's financed. I think it would be good if it were the highest. A minister or someone who knows the matter better would answer. National parks are a source of concern, especially the Lake Bayside National Park, which is a stable animal. I don't know exactly what the situation is there, but he's been under surveillance. How important it is that money be placed in the parks! I think this must be some mistake, of course, they must be defined as tourist attractions and should fall underneath. Similarly, the idea is to wonder if there's a natural pass for the benefit of the summer. I don't think this income is expected, but the income share is not my strongest aspect. I can't remember which income is expected from the natural pass. Perhaps the idea is that if any income reaches into a year, and the cost of this is due to be settled on budgets. That's what I imagine.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u163	A respectable president. Thank you. Senator. You wonder how much tension and extravasation are being started with the Minister's bill for 1 or 1.5 billion a year. There's a completely new taxation system, a new line of revenue, a new trade of state employees, a new surveillance system, etc. for relatively small amounts of money in the big context. As far as I'm concerned, the travel service provides a state fund of about 17 billion dollars. Making money a year. Here we are talking about a very small, insignificant fraction of it. So I agree with it. One senator says that the route is the combination of systems we have for which we have rather than start a new system and feed the booth, as one independent individual would likely say on a good day. I'd like to ask you something, because it's not exactly been in the discussion as an idea to take in addition to what has been discussed before. It's the tax-free trade of tourists, what's sometimes called a Tax Freeκ store where the tourists who shop in Iceland get paid back the valuable extra tax while they're leaving. Some countries have dropped this reimbursement like Canadians, of course. According to my data, 1.6 billion bucks. This year, which has nothing to do with the number we're not talking about in terms of the need to build a tourist position. Let me ask you why. A senator how it feels to examine the means of income that are both accessible and simple.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u164	Thank you. A senator for this great point. I had this in my mind somewhere else. The fact is, if I remember correctly, in order to get a reimbursement tax, you need to shop for more than 4 of you. K. I thought I read it in some collection bill before Christmas that the idea was to raise it to 10 of you. K. So for reimbursement tax as a tourist in this country, he had to buy more than 10 of you. K. Just to raise the target from 4 up. K. up to ten up. K. would immediately tell you that less money left the country, more money would be left here. Right away. I think this is an occasion for an unprepared inquiry for the Supreme Court. Secretary of finance. This may have taken effect on January 1. I remember reading it and thinking it was a very intelligent arrangement and in time taken. There may be 10 of you. K. Too low, but it's already a step in the right direction. We also want to encourage shopping in Iceland, so I don't object to paying back money. I feel that the combination is a good term for what I was trying to describe earlier, that we are trying to make a living because we already have a system. That's right, we're making a device, a new official device, around something that's gonna give us a billion. In fact, it will be exciting to see what it will bring, but about a billion if the plans we have today are going on. But I think it's just a job for me. A senator to find out where this case is holding the merit tax and the reimbursement.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u165	A respectable president. Since I feel alone that the discussion will not end at this meeting, I would like to respond to just a few of the points discussed here. In the beginning, I want to thank you for what has been a controversial discussion. I want to thank you last night. A speaker in particular for a very objective and useful review. I have to say, there's not much surprise in the conversation today. She has gone around and has been discussed, as expected, the pros and cons of this process and the other ways in which the discussion has been conducted. That's exactly what's been done at the time I've been working on the bill. Also, much work had been done before we began our work. I described this morning that there were many reports, many reports, a lot of information, and all sorts of scholars, foreign and domestic, that had already taken up this discussion. What I've been looking forward to is making a suggestion that I have conviction about and putting it before the council. I hope so, after this one. ... that we can come together and work out a better case, such as political treatment. I'd like to discuss a few things, and maybe after that, maybe first. A senator was discussing just moments ago, but she was concerned that a new system, a new booth, would be built. Then I would like to point out that a new system is not being installed. It is to be used by means of the already existing travel fund, has proved its value. It will be the same as it will be, but more, because we will increase the amount of money, but the extent will not exceed the limit, we will work at it. That's why we've entered the bill that the whole operation does not exceed 3.5% of the currency. That is especially so, but it is based on practical plans and calculations. It has been mentioned frequently and repeatedly, talking about simplicity in the context, that we have a system that has proved its value and is simple. So I disagree. This is relatively expensive. That was a great price to pay for it back then. If you read the records of the head of state tax from the time the bill was submitted, it is clear that people were concerned and information from within the tax system that I have obtained confirms that this is a relatively expensive system. Despite the increase in the number of inns and the number of tourists in the camp have increased, the percentage of those collected through the host's fees is to decrease. It tells us that the fee will not be collected for any reason, whether or not to be rented out a room in a black job, I'm not going to get an entire profession of that, but there are reasons. Then they say: Fine, let us raise the price, even misappreciate it on the level of the stay. Then I allow myself to say that there is no point in simplifying things. Increasing the price does not result in drawing more people into that system. That's what I'm worried about when it comes to sleeping fees. That won't return enough money, as we've seen. If you count, like a whale. paritaprevir Brynhildur's daughter, Pétursdóttir, said earlier, better go along a combined way, then it needs to be done, and we need to make more money. I've agreed to try to make it as simple as possible as we recommended. I'd like to make a comment to the alleged complication that men have made here as a subject. I'm so lucky to be a rookie minister, too, as well as to be responsible for the travel. It's almost every day that people come to me with all kinds of ideas and applications after the natural pass discussion and they just don't understand why it should be so complicated. We're renting rental cars, buying hotels, movie theaters, theater tickets and concerts on their name through the Internet, we get this on our phone. It's not that complicated, it just needs to go through with it and finish it. I'm not worried about the process. I've said it before and I've said it yet, but it's not that complicated, but we need to be careful. We need to take some time. This implementation is normally not started, since we have not completed the procedure yet, but it is a certain preparation. I've talked to the tax manager about doing this so that the Icelanders can check their tax report, not have to carry the baby in some form, but it's enough to say their social security number and show identification. The pass's on the name. What may get in the way is this concept of ◯passi, I've figured it out. When we were working on the case in finals, we were wondering if we should call it something else. Then we made fun of people saying, "Wait, what is this? " And the answer would be, "Oh, it's like a natural pass. " So we decided to stick to that name, but I'm advertising here by all good suggestions to better frame it better. The foreigners. We'll try to get them as much as we can through the net. We've started a conversation with the airlines, because a lot of their books are going through the Internet, whether they can be cooperated with that at the end of accounting there's a window that says: Iceland needs a natural pass. Click here if you want to buy it in advance. Then you can visit a website where you can get a lot of natural passes. All kinds of things like this we're in preparation and we'll get started right away, and the bill will be accepted. Get results, go ahead, finish, then disappear, see how it's going. Of course. There's a law of reexamination in the bill. I was delighted to hear the senator say this because I know that we are so close to getting to the conclusion that that that the time point has come to scurry or jump. It's not a perfect system, I'm the first to admit it, but there's no such thing as a perfect system. This bill has been given a lot of thought, and I object to what has been held by several members of the House today as to whether it is thoughtless and random, and it is evidence of handbacking. We've put a lot of work into it. We have done a tremendous amount of work to go through the pros and cons of all roads. Eventually, though, we need to decide which way we will go. This is the way we plan and enter the council's judgment. So, all kinds of fees have been discussed, I've been talking about the host's fee, the charges have been talked about, they're not surprising. We're talking about it everywhere. You want something simple. Everybody does. But when you look at the flaws, I think it's a big problem that most of my income comes from Iceland. I think it's a big problem if we hit the international air. It cannot be avoided. It's very cheap to say: Fine, we'll just put off some other taxes on the domestic flight. You don't do that in one night. Then we will discuss raising the value tax. It may only be a tax political decision. We fought that the room would suddenly rise to a higher tax level during the last terms and would also oppose the compromise mentioned here. There was no reconciliation, the result of the majority of the council at the time, there was no reconciliation to create an extra stage for one industry. It was the prince's point we objected to. I have said, and we told the tourism: This does not mean that we will not change the tax system around travel services in any way or at any time, of course not. With the worthy tax change now, a lower step of the cost tax went, as everyone knows from 7 to 11% and so on. Roofs on it grew, and we are also expanding the strains by taking in items that have been outside the system. So it's always the question, shall we just take it through the tax system? That certainly is a point of view. I hope that the committee will go well and thoroughly over it because it would be the simplest thing for me to say in the next few years: Fine, now that we negotiate with the secretary of finance, and we get it through the council that they'll put in a billion or more of the tourism fund in the next few years, and then we don't have to make this trouble. But there may be two factors that will prevent that from happening. It is the long - term perspective we need in this sector, that people know and can know that the funding is solid so that they can start preparation. There's not always money missing. Sometimes you can share, design, draw, and prepare. This takes a long time because there has been some instability in this financing, although I must correct what has been happening here repeatedly. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Bryfjörðurdóttir that we had a cut-down last year. On the contrary, more money has never been put into the budget than in 2014. Hv. paritaprevir Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir's irony has criticized the fact that we took it on budgets, there were reasons for that, but that doesn't change because there are other reasons, that is, the long - term thought. Then there is the fact that if we're going to take the money out of the tax system, even if we can say that the income comes from one industry to and more so, it means most of the sector. They return into the pit, into our common fund, but they do not necessarily get the same proportion back. These are common funds. It's tax returns. In the end, it is the struggle for financial gain. If we have to settle between intensive care and footpaths in the final inch of the budget, I'm afraid the footpaths will be beneath us. That's why I suggest this particular financing way to establish a more solid foundation for the long term stability required. Since then, there have been points here, such as charging for parking. I'm sure that's what you're looking at. The bill will not stop you from doing that. On the contrary, it is stated that the parties are free, whether public or private, who join the natural pass, charge for services, build up, whether there are restaurants or other facilities or recreations for tourists in their territories. No one is going to prevent this from happening. Rather, it refers to building wood that is so necessary and so costly. Since then, details of the procedure have been discussed. How will the surveillance be accomplished? I have said that in general it will not be vast and burdensome. Of course, whether we bring it together with information services, we will be able to share the portents with us on the project. I'm sure I'd like to take a look at it. Other developments have also been discussed, such as how humans will fit in. That's why I've answered here, through the Internet. Then there are self-employed areas that will be required for those who do not have a suitable fit but who are already in place. Hv. Sigrider Á. Andersen said it would be normal if we had put the places this is supposed to apply into the bill. I'm asking the committee to look into it, but one reason why it wasn't done, I can say it here, was that the discussion might have been about why this place was called and not the other. Of course, the committee will consider this, if she chooses to improve her loyalty, it would probably be doing so. Then we ask if we can use the operating system, keep more expensive in summer, less expensive in winter. Absolutely. When we got into this, putting on a system that involves a certain foreign thought, it was my opinion that it would be better to have it as simple as possible, 1,500 nr, for everyone at all these places. Then we have many opportunities to make many improvements. I sure hope we can get there, but most important, we'll finish this before spring.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u166	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Ministers for arriving at the end of this session and talking with us and taking up what has been discussed, because there are a number of factors that we need to know. One thing I didn't think was to be done well in a talk. Minister and this is the check-in. I find it odd to start a case that is based on the fact that surveillance should lead to a man's being careful to buy natural passes if he is not a much more conscientious person. In advance, however, it is not completely implemented, and we do not know exactly how it will be, but it will not be complicated or go off very hard. I get it this way. Has the highest. So, then, don't you worry that if we set off like this, it'll pay off? I think this surveillance thing needs to get a little bit clearer because it seems like they're going to use it to press on to buy the pass. I'm not going to go to the disco at the top. Minister of hosting fees, I think we disagree on that in ourselves. I'm not in the mood, though, that the host's fee is a great solution, not at all. There's no conclusion on this. And what I find to be the worst of all is that the tourism services themselves have not been able to agree on who should collect this fee. The point is, humans have not been able to agree on this. That's why it's the highest. Ministers come to the position she is in, to contribute this way, which I think is by no means the best. Then I wanted to ask the highest. Minister, I have just a few seconds here at the end of the line, so I don't know what places are that fall under the bill. I don't think it's clear, and I don't like it on the sister bill, which is the national programme, which will be discussed below.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u167	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for these comments. I know she, perhaps more than anybody in this room, understands what I'm going through right now. I recall that at the time, it was a challenge. Senator, now the highest. Minister, just to the prepared way for the coming fees and the stay fees, which ended only at the host's fee. And of course, he knew why. A senator then, just as we now know, that the cost of a stay is not enough. But this was not achieved, and it is quite true that traveling services over the years have not been able to get down on one route. I felt bad when, just before the donation of this bill, a government release came from the transport agency that went in a different direction than we had traveled much by; and it has not been long since we were working on the transport of natural passes here. Of course it hurts. Worse yet, there is no agreement on the release of SAF. There is no agreement within the tourism service, and I'm sorry. I decided to move on - we had just reached an end - because you have to have conviction about what you're doing and I have it with me. All the points that have been mentioned can be reformed, I'm sure they'll be examined. For observation, it's not that I don't know anything about what I'm talking about. We're headed for a low-level surveillance. It will be large, not in every place, but in such a way that it can always be expected. We expect two regular workers at a tourist agency who can then, and that's part of the county fee, hire employees to take individual places, and that's what we're thinking. [[The president calls.]] I'll go over it in my second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u168	A respectable president. I never claimed to be the highest. Minister did not know what she was talking about. [[Up front.]] I was just asking that we get to know more about it as high as possible. A minister has been thinking about these matters because I just don't think it's done well enough in this conversation. Then I wanted to repeat my last question, now that we will continue to discuss it, and the committee will handle this for, etc., the factor that turns to which area to hear underneath. It is said that areas of public property will automatically enter, as referred to in this national programme, and it also refers to some area of public property that automatically entered. What are we talking about? Is this what we're talking about when we're walking up to Esju, we can expect this when we're walking on Smokeynes? Or where is it exactly as humans are discussing it? I also think that there is a need for this discussion to be explained so that people can begin to see it right.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u169	A respectable president. So to avoid misunderstandings, I did not take it so that the senator would accuse me of not knowing what I was talking about, perhaps that came out of my mind. For observation, as I say, it is therefore not meant to be extensive. That's the plan, that's the thought of it being a joint project. That is why the price has been moderate. That is why we are trying to put our arms around this in such a way that we will be proud to share in paying 1,500 bucks. Every three years to protect nature. It's not like that, as it said before. paritaprevir The Rósa Björg Brynjólfsdóttir, I said we were going to make a profit on the mass. No, we're going to increase the number of citizens in Iceland's nature protection. There's a much better way to get to it. We will let those who are largely responsible for our spending more money in this building share with us. That is how the surveillance reflects that thought. I have compared it to a recommendation, and it can also be compared to what happens in public transport in neighboring countries. If you don't buy tickets and get caught on the train, you get a ticket. That happens rarely, but when it happens, there is a fine. That alone is a food source. What are these places? The concept is that all areas are owned and cared for by state and rural society so that no other charge will be paid for access to all such areas. This is followed by a requirement for a match in these specific sites. These are the most versatile places, Goldphos, Skaftfells, Dimmu, Forest Falls, Seljamphos, where the spoils are abundant. Then, and that may be why we did not put it into the law, we need to reevaluate it. This may lead to the spread of the pressures we hope for, and then we need to increase and move. However, there are places where infrastructure has either occurred or is needed as a result of the efforts of tourists. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u170	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for sitting here following the discussion and participating. I think it's to be imitated and it's important that we have an opportunity to talk. What I'm worried about, and I just want to sign a minister is that those who decide not to join in the natural pass can still charge. That's what I feel most uncomfortable about this. Is there anything to prevent it, or can it be placed on the demand to charge for some given service that is even the parking lot or the toilet service, or something like that? I'm not insanely negative to the natural pass. It's not perfect, we agree on it, but it's just a very difficult case, and it's like there's no stakeholder in the sector to take it on. The restaurants would not want to collect this fee, the hotels and hostels are not particularly excited to collect the fees or airlines or rentals or whoever they are because it's a consumer tax and just a matter of collecting the fee and bringing it to the state, it still goes on top of the price and can affect the demand. It's just that way, and that's where we're trying to charge the tourist. I'm more positive than I was this morning. Maybe I'll be negative again at 2nd. But I'm worried about this, that there could be something wild West about a lot of people saying, "Hey, I'm not gonna be in on this, I can get more from charging the tourists who come. Is it somehow possible to stop it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u171	A respectable president. In the evening, at least one member of the body is more positive than she was this morning in regard to this matter. The drop'll break the stone. Regarding the senator's question on the private stakes, this bill per se is not under ban on privates to charge a deposit. As I went to my speech this morning, it can't be done in this bill any more than we don't do it by taking a break or coming fee or taking this off the merit tax, that's just another matter. There, these two rights of the citizens, the public rights and the ownership rights are attracted to both very important rights that we protect. It's just gonna have to be settled somewhere else. By welcoming private members to tell them that they are welcome in this and that they can receive contributions to the territory, to do projects, without having to make contributions, we are trying to drag them along. I don't think it's possible to force men into that system, they're self-employed to charge for services even if they're members, but they can't just collect the deposit money, the fee to come into the area. Another important factor is that by taking responsibility for our territories, we cover much of our country, much of the problem we can say. There are not many areas left, and based on my conversations with various members in this situation, I hope that they will be more benefiting from coming there, getting the funding for building up, and then able to focus on serving, improving recreation, bringing in restaurants, and these things that still add to the value of the property. We are, rather, using the method of drawing them to us in cooperation than of going along the way and forbidding them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u172	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. I think it's very important to try to get as many people as possible. Whether this is going to work or not, it can make a major difference, and it makes them feel like they want to. In itself, I have no great concern about the surveillance. Usually you just pay some price, and you don't necessarily wait for someone to come to tell you if you paid the price. It's more than just a conscience that people do. It's moderate and it's good. Since I have the highest. A minister in the hall would like to ask about the future and whether she can see that the tourism is going up to the top or if we are there with a profession that should be in the lower level because it is so delicate or what is the matter? I don't know what the government's ideas are, and what's going to happen in the future with the merit of the tax level, whether or not we're headed for something lower than the top level. It's pretty high, it should be accepted. But are we talking about continuing to do so with the noncombatants still in the tourism business? What's going on? A minister of that? Similarly, with regard to what we came in here a little while ago, although it may not be about to turn on this matter or the highest. Ministers are still very important, but the reimbursement of reimbursement tax on products purchased by tourists. Do we not agree that 4 of you are going a long way? K. minimum? I know the highest. Minister where that case stands? I have to admit that I don't know if an increase has come true for January 1 or if it needs to be followed. But there's money for the government fund.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-29-59.u173	A respectable president. In view of my surveillance, I agree with what's happened. Senator, I'm not so worried about that either. I think that the majority of us are, so we pay the price and we don't try to get away from it. If you saw a pale - suited naturalist depicted, your behavior would be more likely to be to run into the vending machine and buy than to leave the guard. I'm not so worried about that. I've heard these ideas about the reimbursement at the store. I must admit that I have missed the full impact that it would have on a store in the country. Now I'm more of a businessman and a minister. We need to take care of her, too, but I'm sure I'd like to take a look at this point with someone else because there's a certain income. It also has to do with the second question about the merit tax and the accessories. We need to examine both the remuneration and the resources in the competitive environment, not in this country between enterprises, but Iceland as our destination. We know that too steep in the value of tax increases, whether in the hosting or in any other service, will affect competition. We saw it in comments when we were supposed to raise the value of the extra tax, and we see, for example. if we apply ourselves to Denmark, where there is a very high value extra tax on sleeping, that Danir complains that it affects the demand. All these things must be taken into context. I think if we're going to look to the future and future goals on the merit tax, I'll talk from my point of view and my class - we want to go to one step. We were just starting to cut the gap between the budgets. The best position would be to have a reasonably low level one step and no extras. That's where we want to go for travel services and everybody else.
